Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20485-MAI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.8 MILLION
(US$28.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FORA
PRIVATIZATION AND UTILITY REFORM PROJECT
June 1, 2000
Private Sector and Finance Unit
Country Department AFC03
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Effective April 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
1 Malawi Kwacha = US$ 0.021075
US$ 1 = 47.4498 Kwacha
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC              Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBM                 Commercial Bank of Malawi
DANIDA              Danish International Development Agency
DSP                 Divestiture Sequence Plan
EA                  Environmental Assessment
EC                  Electricity Council
ESCOM               Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi Limited
IDA                 International Development Association
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
GOM                 Govermment of Malawi
LACIIFMI            Loan Administration Change Initiative/Financial Management Initiative
MACRA               Malawi Communications Regulatory Agency
MOF                 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPC                 Malawi Posts Corporation
MPTC                Malawi Posts & Telecommunications Corporation
MSR                 Multi Sectoral Regulator
MTL                 Malawi Telecom Limited
NBM                 National Bank of Malawi
PC                  Privatisation Commission
PE                  Public Enterprise
PMR                 Project Management Reports
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PPLAF               Public/Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSD                 Private Sector Development
PSP                 Private Sector Participation
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director    Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager/Director:   Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Gaiv Tata



MALAWI
PRIVATIZATION AND UTILITY REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                      13
5. Social                                                                             14
6. Environment                                                                        14
7. Participatory Approach                                                             15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     16



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           17
2. Other                                                                             17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         18
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis                                                          33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           49
Annex 11: Environmental Action Plan                                                     51
MAP(S)



MALAWI
Privatization and Utility Reformn Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: June 1, 2000                                Team Leader: Gaiv M. Tata
Country Manager/Director: Barbara Kafka           Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba
Project ID: P063095                               Sector(s): BP - Privatization, CC - Telecommunications &
Informatics
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
FI Loan         Z Credit        [l Grant        3 Guarantee     D Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 28.9
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
GOVERNMENT                                                      3.00           0.30           3.30
IDA                                                             3.60          25.30          28.90
Total:                                                          6.60          25.60          32.20
Borrower:
Responsible agency: PRIVATISATION COMMISSION
Address: CDL House, 5 Independence Drive, PO Box 937, Blantyre, Malawi
Contact Person: Mr. Dye Mawindo, Executive Director
Tel: (265) 623.655               Fax: (265) 621.248                Email: privatisation@malawi.net
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, National Electricity Council, Malawi Communications Regulatory
Authority, Malawi Posts Corporation, Malawi Telecommunications Limited and Electricty Supply Corporation of Malawi
Limited
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     4.6           9.4          7.3         5.2         2.4
Cumulative     4.6          14.0        21.3        26.5        28.9
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F- m: Rw.  - h20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's objective is to improve quality of and access to economic and physical infrastructure for
private sector development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the objective would be measured by:
(a)   improvements in sectoral indicators for major utility sectors restructured (i.e. telecommunications,
power and water). Specifically, based on the sector policy statements, the number of working telephone
lines are expected to increase from 40,000 lines to 150,000 by December 2004 and the access to grid-based
electricity is expected to increase from 4 percent to 6 percent by December 2004. No specific indicators
have been identified for the water sector since the privatization transactions are expected to occur close to
the end of the project and there would not be sufficient changes in sectoral indicators by the end of the
project;
(b)   improvements in postal sector indicators. Specifically, (i) that mail which is posted from one city
for delivery in another city is delivered by the third day of posting would improve from the current level of
65 percent to 80 percent by the end of the project; and (ii) the indicator for the number of letters handled
per staff per annum increase from the current level of 45,610 to 62,903 by the end of the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18349-MAI                Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/04/98
The objective of the Bank's Malawi Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is poverty alleviation. In a country
where a majority of the population is living on less than US $2 per day, a key element of this strategy is to
engender broad-based growth. The growth of the private sector firms witiin the economy, especially those
focusing on export-led growth, is impacted by poor quality of infrastructure service delivery. Improving
these services through increased private participation in ownership and management is a key focus under
the project. Hence, there is a close linkage between the project's development objectives and the CAS goal
of broad-based growth.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The deterioration of Malawi's infrastructure and the resulting low and unreliable service coverage has been
identified as one of the principal constraints to private sector development (PSD) in a survey of the private
sector conducted for the 1997 World Development Report. Since 1997, the Government of Malawi (GOM)
began the process of reforms in key infrastructure sectors through four sets of actions: (i) liberalization of
the sector structure in market segments where competition is feasible; (ii) privatization of public enterprises
(PEs) in the context of the new sector structure and the entry of new market participants, where applicable;
(iii) establishment/strengthening of regulatory institutions to monitor compliance with the implementation
of the new sector policies and the licenses issued; and (iv) addressing issues of access to services especially
by the rural population and prices of services especially with regard to subsidies currently being provided.
Specific status of actions in each sector are discussed below.
-2 -



Privatization program
PEs (which accounted for around 20 percent of GDP at the start of the privatization program) have a
significant influence in the formal economy because of the oligopolistic market structure and inter-locking
relationships between them. The reform process commenced in 1994 with the establishment of the
Privatisation Commission (PC). Extensive consultations followed and in late 1995, cabinet approved the
Privatisation Policy Statement. This was followed by the passage of the Public Enterprises (Privatisation)
Act in April 1996. The Secretariat for the PC, which manages the technical aspects of the privatization
work program, was established thereafter. Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP) consisting of a list of 100 PEs
was approved by the Cabinet Committee on the Economy in August 1997, and this is the document from
which PC derives its authority to privatize a particular enterprise. GOM has also been funding the
operating expenditures of the privatization program from its own budget and from sale proceeds.
Implementation of the reform agenda has been an ongoing process, and as of December 1999, 35 out of
100 PEs on the DSP were privatized. The remaining balance of PEs will be privatized in a phased manner
by 2004. The remaining agenda is for the divestiture of the balance of enterprises in the DSP. PEs in the
three utility sectors discussed earlier (telecommunications, power and water) are part of DSP. Therefore,
the Privatisation Commission has been closely involved in the sector reform agenda, which will ensure
integration of the sector reform and privatization processes.
Telecommunications and postal sectors
Basic telephone and postal services are provided by the Malawi Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (MPTC). Mobile voice services are provided by Telekom Networks Limited (a company in
which MPTC has a minority interest) and a newly- licensed second cellular operator. Intemet services are
provided by Malawi Net (a wholly owned subsidiary of MPTC). MPTC reports to the Ministry of
Information, Broadcasting, Posts and Telecommunications, which is responsible for setting sector policy.
Telecommunications service coverage is poor (3 lines per 1000 persons), unreliable and expensive. Postal
services are limited to delivery of mail to private letter boxes; there is a considerable waiting list for this
service (17,955 as compared to 51,11 1 installed boxes). Over time, the volume of mail has declined overall
and especially in the lucrative market segments due to competition. The basic stamp rate of 60 tambala
(approximately 1.3 US cents at the current exchange rate) and of box rentals of 45 kwacha per annum
(approximately US $1) resulted in tariffs well below costs and the services had to be funded through a
considerable subsidy from the telephone services.
During 1997 and 1998, GOM reviewed the sector development strategy through a process of wide spread.
consultation with various stakeholders. This resulted in the Communications Sector Policy statement of
August 1998 and in the Communications Act of November 1998. The Communications Sector Policy
states the goals of the reform agenda for the telecommunications sector as increasing the number of
working lines to not less than 150,000 by the end of 2003, improving service quality and reducing prices.
The sector policy identifies the following key activities in the reform agenda: (i) separation of postal and
telecommunication activities into two separate entities - Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL) and
Malawi Postal Corporation (MPC); (ii) separation of regulatory functions and establishment of the Malawi
Communications Regulatory Authority (MACRA); and (iii) immediate liberalization of all services other
than basic voice telephony - where an initial period of exclusivity of five years will be provided to the
incumbent MTL. MTL is to be privatized immediately. A plan to bring MPC into self-sufficiency during
the medium-term was to be defined and Government subsidy would be provided during the transitional
period to MPC.
-3 -



Implementation of the reformn agenda has commenced - transaction advisors have been appointed in
October 1999 for the sale of MTL; activities supporting the separation of MTL and MPC are well
underway; MACRA has been established; and separate Boards and management for MTL and MPC have
been appointed. The advisor for telecommunications privatization is expected to provide several reports,
including the marketing strategy, to PC by the end of May 2000. The reports are expected to be considered
by PC in consultation with the Telecommunications Task Force and a decision made on the appropriate
privatization approach. One month after receiving PC's decision, the advisor is expected to provide the
Information Memorandum inviting bids for the sale of MTL. The Communications Sector Policy Statement
provides a five year period of exclusivity for basic services to MTL from the date of its incorporation.
Given the impact that this might have on the development of the sector and, furthermore, given that the
exclusivity could potentially constitute an anti-competitive trade practice in terms of the Competition and
Fair Trading Act No. 43 of 1998 (which is awaiting implementation), GOM plans to immediately revisit
this issue. This review would be completed and a final decision reached prior to the issuance of the
Information Memorandum for the sale of MTL.
A Business Plan for MPC has been prepared. Based on this plan, MACRA approved a rate increase
effective April 1, 2000 of the basic stamp rate to 2 kwacha (approximately 5 US cents) and for the private
boxes in a range between 100-2500 kwacha per annum (approximately US$2-55 depending on box size,
location (urban vs. rural) and nature of usage (individuals vs. companies). Further, based on the business
plan, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planing (MOF) will allocate in its FY2001 budget a provision
of subsidy for postal services.
The remaining agenda for completion consists of the following: (i) establishment of the new MPC and
MTL; (ii) issuance of licenses; (iii) completion of the privatization transaction; (iv) implementation of the
MPC Business Plan; and (v) strengthening of MACRA.
Power sector reform
The main entity in the power sector consists of the Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi Limited
(ESCOM). Currently ESCOM has installed capacity of 200 megawatts (which will increase to around 260
megawatts by June 2000), and annually supplies 700 GWH of electricity. The government's implicit
strategy of holding electricity tariffs artificially low is retarding system development and increased access
to electricity. This is because ESCOM is unable to generate adequate funds for system maintenance and
required investments. This problem is further exacerbated by ESCOM's poor operating and financial
performance. The impacts is threefold. First, access to electricity is among the lowest in the world. Less
than 55,000 households of the total 1.6 million households in Malawi have access to grid supplied
electricity. Second, lack of reliable power services and a limited distribution network lead to substantial
losses in the real sector (especially industry), which is further burdened by the need for self-generation of
electricity at high costs. Third, there has been a significant impact on the government budget. In 1999, a
subsidy of some US$16 million was provided by converting debt owed by ESCOM to the government into
equity while the government continued to service the original debt; an additional debt to equity conversion
of US$7.4 million is required in 2000.
The reform process started in 1998 and initially resulted in the revised Electricity Act, of that year.
Implementation of the reform agenda has commenced with: (i) the establishment of the Electricity Council
(EC) in January 1999; (ii) the incorporation of ESCOM in July 1998 into a limited liability company
wholly owned, for the time being, by the Government; (iii) the transfer of all assets, liabilities, property and
staff of the old ESCOM to the new ESCOM Limited; and (iv) commencement of a commercialization
program for ESCOM. In addition, a task force was appointed to oversee the commercialization program as
-4 -



well as formulate a power sector policy statement. This has since resulted in the draft Power Sector Policy
Statement of July, 1999, which is still awaiting cabinet approval, and the draft revised Electricity Bill,
2000, which had been published for consideration by Parliament. The key elements of the sector policy
statement were the separation of ESCOM into generation, transmission and distribution units and
commencement of privatization of distribution immediately with subsequent privatization of generation.
However, the Bill had been withdrawn from consideration by Parliament since there were concerns within
government regarding the proposed unbundling of ESCOM into several units. The Task Force was,
therefore, reconvened in early May 2000, and begun the process of reviewing the sector in light of these
concerns. This review indicated that the proposed sector structure was fundamentally sound but that some
fine-tuning of the structure and further clarifications, on how this would assist in fulfilling the objective of
introducing competition into the sector, would need to be provided. The next steps are for the sector policy
to be revised and submitted to Cabinet in July-August 2000 and for the Bill to be sent to Parliament in
October 2000. The remaining agenda for completion consists of improving the effectiveness of Electricity
Counsel (EC) and implementing the divestiture transactions with distribution and generation.
Water sector reform
Over the past 20 years, the urban water boards in Malawi have received support with institutional and
infrastructure development under several projects funded by the Development Bank of Southern Africa, the
African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank and the Nordic Development Fund and by IDA,
including through the ongoing IDA-funded National Water Development and Third Lilongwe Water Supply
Projects. In 1994, the government also defined its sector strategy in the National Water Resources
Management Policy and Strategies. With support from donor funded projects, the urban water boards have
expanded facilities, extended service coverage and have introduced some measures to improve efficiency.
However, the financial condition of the Boards has deteriorated in recent years despite tariff increases. The
involvement of the private sector is considered essential in order to establish autonomy and appropriate
incentive structures so that improvements made under previous and ongoing projects can be sustained, the
poor can be better served, and the growing demand for water can be met. A study of Private Sector
Participation (PSP) options will commence shortly to identify options for involving the private sector in
provision of water supply service in the two primary urban centers in Malawi - Blantyre and Lilongwe - as
a first step toward extending coverage to the urban poor at affordable prices, meeting future demand,
improving efficiency and service levels and providing for sustainability.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues on privatization
The support provided under this project to the privatization program is taking place in the context of well
established institutional arrangements. The key implementing agency (the Privatisation Commission) has a
small complement of competent professional staff (around five including a full-time advisor who is well
integrated into the work program of PC) who manage the contracting out of the majority of the transaction
advisory work. Since this approach (in effect, privatizing the privatization process) has been demonstrated
elsewhere to be an optimal way to proceed, the first strategic choice made was to support the existing
program and institutional arrangements and to minimize additional requirements imposed as a result of an
IDA credit.
The second strategic choice made with regard to the non-utility transactions, was to accept the DSP as the
document defining the universe of transactions for the privatization component and to allocate funds for
twelve transactions slated to occur over the next four years. The entities to be privatized were identified
during appraisal and are: Agriculture Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC); Commercial
-5-



Bank of Malawi, Air Malawi, Malawi Telecom, Malawi Rural Finance Corporation, ESCOM
Distribution; ESCOM Generation; Blantyre Water Board; Lilongwe Water Board; Tourism Development
and Investment Corporation; Malawi Housing Corporation; and Malawi Savings Bank. Five additional
transactions, which are currently not scheduled were identified (National Bank of Malawi, David
Whitehead and Sons, Shire Bus Line, airports privatization and Indebank/Fund); it is was agreed that these
enterprises could be substituted if any of the twelve identified transactions should not be achievable. The
first year's work program for the entire privatization program (July 2000 - June 2001) was appraised and
this process is expected to continue throughout the project with an annual review of the work program at
which time, the replacement of the identified transactions with unscheduled transactions would also be
agreed between PC and IDA.
The third strategic choice made was with regard to excluding financing for retrenchment payments from the
project. This was based on the assessment that in the past such payments were financed from the
privatization proceeds and discussions with the government did not identify this as a major constraint to the
program. However, in order to ensure that this matter is handled equitably in the future, GOM and IDA
agreed during appraisal to the following principles, which would be employed for the retrenchment of
workers in relation to the privatization program.
* Retrenchment benefits would be paid on the basis of the higher of four weeks of pay for every year of
service or as specified in the terms of employment in the individual PE. Once the Employment Act
(which was passed by Parliament in March 2000 and is awaiting assent) would come into force, the
retrenchment benefits would be paid in line with the provisions of that Act.
v Retrenchment benefits would be paid to all staff, if as a result of privatization, new enterprise(s) are
created, except as otherwise specified by law (i.e. the case of posts and telecommunications). Benefits
will be paid only to redundant staff, if as a result of privatization, there is only a change in the
ownership structure of the enterprise.
- Counseling would be offered to all employees to be retrenched prior to retrenchment and would be
fmanced by the relevant PE or by PC.
i Financing of retrenchment costs will be provided in the following order of priority: from the proceeds
of sale of the relevant PE; from the Privatization Revenue Account; and from the national budget.
e  PC would prepare, before the beginning of each fiscal year and update every six months thereafter, a
budget estimate showing: the anticipated counseling and retrenchment costs by PE; and the proposed
financing plan for these.
Sector issues on utility reform/regulatory support
GOM plans to undertake a comprehensive evaluation of the benefits and disadvantages of establishing a
single multi-sector regulator (MSR) for all utilities and public services. If the findings of the evaluation are
favorable, the government would then proceed with the establishment of MSR. The project would, hence,
assist GOM in three phases. The first phase, which would be completed by December 31, 2001, would
consist of a study which would review existing regulatory arrangements and establish the benefits/costs of
establishing a MSR. If the recommendations of this study are to establish MSR, then in the second phase, a
time-bound action plan for the design and establishment of MSR and the drafting and approval of relevant
legislation would be developed by December 31, 2002. In the third phase, the plan would be implemented,
which could be expected to include the merging of existing regulatory bodies and staffing and training of
staff of the newly established MSR. For the initial study of assessing the appropriateness of establishing
MSR, the government plans to seek grant financing from the Public/Private Infrastructure Advisory
Facility (PPIAF); if such funding is not forthcoming, the work would be funded under the project. The
second and third phases, which would be completed by the end of the project, would consist of the design
- 6 -



and implementation of this plan which could be expected to include the merging of existing regulatory
bodies and staffmg and training of staff of the newly established MSR.
During the phases of deciding on the need for MSR and designing MSR, the project would provide support
to EC and MACRA - which are candidate institutions for merger into MSR. The strategic choice that was
made was to continue to provide support to the separate regulatory institutions, since the areas covered by
the project support capacity-building in sectoral and technical activities which would continue to be
required in the multi-sectoral regulator. Further, once the plan has been defined, the project would support
the establishment of MSR and the transitional arrangements for combining several agencies into one.
Sector Issues on Telecommunications/Posts, Power and Water
In general, the strategic choice has been to prepare the project under the assumption that it will assist in the
implementation of sector reform agendas, which would have been agreed between the government and IDA.
Project funding would be utilized in building consensus during the process of finalizing sector policy
statements, definition of privatization options, in pre-privatization activities, in supporting the privatization
transaction and in initial support to new regulatory entities. The sector reform dialogue is at different stages
for the three sectors and, hence, the timing of support from the project will vary accordingly, although for
all the sectors transactions are expected to be completed during the project period.
In the telecommunications and postal sector reform, there is an agreed policy and a law. Hence, support
under the project has been accelerated through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which has been used to
fund both, the pre-privatization assistance and the transaction advisors. An additional strategic choice made
in the case of telecommunications was that since DANIDA has been the lead donor in the sector in Malawi
and has committed to providing substantial resources for the development of rural telecommunications over
the next three years, it is not currently necessary for IDA to make incremental investments. Similarly, IDA
support for the new regulatory agency, MACRA will complement existing DANIDA grant financing for
that entity. An additional strategic choice made in order to ensure that the postal sector - which will remain
in the public sector - will become self-sustaining, was to provide some resources under the project to
improve its operational capacity. Transitional support was required since this service would no longer
receive cross-subsidies from the telecom sector for operating costs and the government has committed to
providing a subsidy for two years in order to allow the postal service some time to become sustainable.
While sustainability could be achieved by increasing revenues in the medium-term, this would only be
possible if service delivery improved and if the effects of chronic underfunding of major physical and
human assets in the postal service were addressed. The upfront investments needed to ensure improvements
in service delivery will require IDA funding since no other alternative sources of financing are available.
In the power sector reforn, given that there have been recent difficulties in government-wide consensus on
the power sector reform strategy which revolve around the unbundling of ESCOM, the project would
support consensus-building in order to assist in the finalization of the sector strategy, pre-privatization
assistance and support to the privatization process.
In the water sector reforn, the initial study of private sector participation options is yet to be undertaken
and, hence, support from the project would occur probably during the second year of project
imnplementation.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would consist of four components:
(1)    Privatization component. This component would support the development of divestiture options
and/or the implementation of the chosen divestiture methods for utility divestitures including: MTL,
electricity distribution and transmission, and water. Initial funding for the MTL transaction advisors has
been provided through PPF. In addition, the component would fund consultancy services associated with at
least seven identified non-utility divestitures included in the DSP.
(2)    Support to regulatory institutions. This component would enhance the operations of the Malawi
Communications Regulatory Authority for postal and telecommunications regulation and the Electricity
Council for power regulation. Further, this component would also assist the government in evaluating the
benefits of and, if appropriate, in the establishment of a multi-sectoral regulatory agency. Financing for the
telecommunications regulatory agency (MACRA) is already being provided by DANIDA under parallel
financing.
(3)    Postal sector support. This component would support the three year business plan of MPC in
order to help the postal service progress towards full cost recovery after its separation from MTL. The
support provided would be through funding of consultancy for management support and training (possibly
through a twinning arrangement with another postal administration), postal and office equipment, and
vehicles. The government would provide a subvention over the project period to meet the interim financing
gap arising from tariffs not increasing sufficiently to meet operating costs of MPC.
(4)    Pre-privatization Assistance. This component would support restructuring activities: (a) in
ESCOM - including the conducting of a tariff study, establishing a financial management system and
separating the financial statements of the Strategic Business Units and the purchase of high voltage
metering equipment; and (b) in MTL - ensuring that Year 2000 compliance is achieved. The latter activity
was financed under PPF and has been completed.
1. Privatization                  Privatization       15.20      47.2      15.00      51.9
2. Regulatory Reformn             Institutional        5.30       16.5      5.30       18.3
Development
3. Postal Sector Support           Public Enterprise   9.60       29.8      6.50      22.5
Reform
4. Pre-Privatization Assistance    Privatization       2.10        6.5      2.10       7.3
Total Project Costs                   32.20      100.0     28.90      100.0
Total Financing Required                   32.20      100.0     28.90      100.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support:
1. Existing policies and institutional arrangements for the privatization program.
2. Policies and institutional arrangements for the multi-sectoral regulator which the government may
decide to establish during the project period.
3. Existing policies and institutional reforms in telecommunications and post sectors.
4. Proposed policies and institutional reforms in the power and water sectors.
5. Privatization of other entities in the Divestiture Sequence Plan in the context of reform programs which
are being defined for the relevant sectors.
3. Benefits and target population:
Three broad target groups will benefit:
(i)    Private sector. The primary beneficiaries are the business sector as the sector reform and
associated liberalization and privatization will provide strong incentives for improving service delivery in
the utility sectors which is currently one of the major constraints to private sector development.
(ii)    Local population. The local population, in particular individual customers utilizing utility services,
will also gain from improved access, quantity and quality of services resulting from improvements in
operational efficiency and network extension.
(iii)    Government. The indirect effects will arise from the reduction of public investments in the utility
sectors and increased tax revenue from privatized entities. The resultant impact will be that the project will
free up scarce public resources for investment in social programs and other priority activities, which are
likely to accrue to the poorer parts of the population who are larger beneficiaries of government social
sector spending.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional framework, within which the project will provide assistance, is governed by two
considerations. First, the institutional framework for the privatization program will govern activities under
the privatization component. Second, the institutional framework for specific sectors will govern activities
under the regulatory, postal and pre-privatization assistance components.
Project Coordination. PC would act as the unit coordinating project implementation and would be
responsible for accounting and disbursement for all components. PC would prepare and distribute
consolidated quarterly reports (Progress Reports) reflecting the status of implementation progress,
problems encountered and corrective actions needed, current costs of each project component and estimated
costs of completion.
Financial ManagementArrangements. Since PC has been the beneficiary of an IDF grant, it has
familiarity with IDA procedures. However, given the substantially larger amount of funds to be provided
under the project, IDA staff conducted a financial management assessment and found a level of compliance
with IDA requirements sufficient to utilize traditional IDA procedures at project effectiveness, and agreed
to an Action Plan, which would allow for disbursement based on Project Management Reports (PMR) after
June 2001. From project effectiveness until June 2001, the accounting system will produce a summary of
9-



the Statement of Expenditures and an adjoining expenditure detail, statement of withdrawal, a balance sheet
as required, Special Account statement and notes to the accounts. During this period, the Action Plan for
improving fnancial management would be implemented; its key elements are expansion of the existing
chart of accounts to incorporate project expenditures and recruitment of an additional person. After July
2001, when an integrated project management system, which brings together project financial management,
disbursement, procurement, contract management and output monitoring reports is in place, the project will
start disbursing funds using PMRs. Every quarter, PC will produce: (a) Financial Statements showing a
summary of sources and uses of funds, uses by project activity, cash forecast for the next quarter, cash
withdrawal and a special account statement; (b) Output monitoring reports which shall detail progress and
indicators achieved for that quarter; and (c) Procurement management reports which shall detail
procurement management status for consultants, contract expenditures for the same and incurred for goods.
These reports will be submitted to IDA and the Project Steering Committee within forty five days of the
end of the quarter for review and act as a basis for the next quarterly disbursement. The accounts will be
prepared on a cash basis and will follow International Accounting Standards. The accounts will be audited
within six months after the end of the financial year.
Procurement. The privatization component would be implemented by PC; the regulatory reform
component would be implemented by EC and MACRA; postal sector support component would be
implemented by MPC and the pre-privatization assistance the component by MTL and ESCOM. The
overall procurement plan for the project and a detailed procurement plan for the first year were reviewed
during appraisal and assessed to be of satisfactory quality. The procurement assessments have been
completed for all implementing entities. PC, MTL and ESCOM have been assessed to have sufficient
capacity to implement relevant procurement activities. For MPC and MACRA, action plans have been
agreed which will include short-term support through procurement consultants, and procurement training
on IDA procedures for some staff members. EC has limited procurement capabilities but these are judged
to be sufficient for the procurement activities it is expected to undertake.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The sector reform dialogue has been ongoing for the last few years within the context of ongoing sectoral
projects and structural adjustment credits. The main objective of the government in seeking a separate IDA
credit was to acquire a readily-available source of fnancing for transaction advisory services for large
transactions, which could not be financed from existing government sources. This decision was reached by
the government after it was unable to identify additional sources of grant funding from other donors for
financing transaction advisory services. It should be noted that the government continues to receive funding
for other pre-privatization activities in the telecommunications sector, including for the regulatory agency
(MACRA), from DANIDA and limited support for the Privatisation Commission from USAID.
Support for regulatory bodies has been included since utility regulation is a relatively new area in Malawi
and requires some initial start-up support. Financing will only be provided for targeted activities with
ongoing fnancing for the regulatory bodies expected to come either from licensing fees or subventions from
the government. The alternative of providing support to regulatory bodies under sectoral operations was not
considered since existing sectoral projects are approaching completion and additional IDA support is not
envisaged except in the water sector.
Support for the postal sector program was included in order to ensure that the separation from
telecommunications and that the subsequent end to cross-subsidization did not lead to a reduction in service
- 10-



levels especially in rural areas. Financing will only be provided for upfront investments and management
support with financing of operating costs expected to come from postal tariffs and an initial subvention
from the government after which MPC is expected to become self-financing.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.Latest Superision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____   ____________ __ (Bank4nanced  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Support to privatization           IDF Grant 28278                   S             S
Private sector development         FRDP I (MW-PE- 1648)              S             S
Private sector development -       FRDP II                           S             S
privatization, telecommunications and
power
Private sector development -       Proposed FRDP III
privatization, telecommunications and
power
Other development agencies
Telecommunications                 DANIDA telecom reform and
rehabilitation project
Telecommunications                 AfDB telecom investment
project
Privatization                      USAID Support to the
Privatisation Commission
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There have been no prior IDA privatization projects in Malawi. Limited assistance has been provided
through an IDF grant in support of privatization. Implementation of this grant indicates the following.
First, that there has been local ownership of the privatization process. With capacity built in the
Privatisation Commission, the GOM has some capacity required to initiate and follow-up on future work in
privatization.
- 11 -



International and regional experience on privatization and sector reform indicate the following "best
practice" features:
* Government commitment to and leadership of the privatization and sector reform programs are
essential to success. The project would support implementation of programs that have been developed
with broad stakeholder consultation and where the agreements are contained in sector policy statements
and laws.
*   Leadership and strong privatization agency, with skilled staff and empowered with appropriate
authority to carry out the reform. The privatization component will be implemented by the
Privatisation Commission, which already has adequate experience and capacity to implement the
reforms (i.e., competent and appropriately remunerated group of staff with adequate advisory support).
*  Availability of resources to address the social cost of reform by funding severance packages for
redundant employees from privatization proceeds.
* Consistent approach across sector reform and privatization processes. The government has ensured
that sector reform task forces consisting of all key stakeholders are involved in the reform and
privatization processes; on the Bank's side, sectoral staff are an integral part of the project team.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment has been demonstrated through: (a) the enactment of the Public Enterprises
(Privatisation) Act of April 1996, setting up and funding from its own sources the administrative secretariat
of PC; (b) at a sectoral level, in telecommunications, government has already approved policies and
Parliament has approved the enabling legislation; and (c) government is in the process of considering a
Power Sector Policy Statement and Act.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The privatization and utility reform programs have both been a significant part of the government's
structural adjustment program which the Bank has supported through the First and Second Fiscal
Restructuring and Deregulation Projects. The Bank has also been previously involved in supporting GOM'
s privatization program through an IDF grant. The key issue has been that in the past there has been a
limited requirement for financing technical assistance. However, with the larger transactions and the larger
fees for utility privatization and the Technical Assistance requirements for new regulatory institutions, the
government decided to consolidate these requirements under the proposed project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which aims at supporting the privatization and
utility reform process and building capacity for regulation. The sector reform will result in increased
service access and quality. Therefore, the operational indicators for the project focus on improvements in
these areas (Annex 1). There will, however, also be a number of indirect economic benefits which are not
measured including (i) productivity gains; (ii) increased output resulting from additional capital investment
- 12 -



by privatized firms; (iii) additional income from the net creation of jobs in the private sector; (iv) factor
cost savings from the reduction of average production costs of utility companies; and (v) consumer surplus
from improved access and quality of utility services provided.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable
Fiscal Impact:
The direct fiscal impact of the project will occur through a counterpart funding requirement of
approximately US$3 million. This will be met through government subvention to the postal sector, paying
for a proportion of transaction advisory services from the proceeds of sale and 10 percent contribution for
local expenditures in the operating cost and equipment categories. The privatization transactions supported
through the project will have differential fiscal impacts on a case-by-case basis, which can only be
realistically assessed when the chosen privatization option is identified. For example, the immediate fiscal
impact would be influenced by: (a) funds onlent by the government to the particular PE and the need to
write-off such loans in order to complete the sale of the enterprise; (b) whether the government would still
need to honor its own loan obligations; (c) offsetting sale proceeds resulting from the privatization.
Moreover, to the extent that such PEs were defaulting on loan payments and the government was servicing
its own loan obligations anyway, there would be no differential fiscal impact. Similarly, future fiscal
impact can only be modeled if there are specific license obligations regarding service delivery, which in turn
would lead to gains in corporate and other taxes; once again, this would be possible to determine closer to
the point of sale of PEs.
3. Technical:
The operational indicators for monitoring improved access and service delivery were agreed during
appraisal for the telecommunications, power and postal sectors together with benchmark indicators for
improved regulation; no indicators were identified for the water sector since the transactions are expected to
occur close to the end of the project and there would not be sufficient changes to these indicators by project
end. The indicators are presented in Annex 1. The indicators are currently based on the targets that the
government has set in its sector policy statements. While the indicators will form the basis for the licenses
that the government will issue, it is reasonable to expect that the actual targets agreed by the
investors/strategic partners may vary from those that the government wishes to achieve. Hence, it may be
necessary to review the indicators as privatization transactions occur and to formalize any revisions to
these indicators at the mid-term review of the project.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The implementation arrangements will consist of a Project Steering Committee which will be chaired by the
Ministry of Finance and which will include representatives from the implementing agencies i.e.
Privatisation Commission, Electricity Council, Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority, Malawi
Telecommunications Limited, Malawi Posts Limited, ESCOM. The Project Steering Committee would
co-ordinate with sectoral task forces established for telecommunications and electricity reform as needed.
-13-



b. Project management:
Project Coordination: PC would act as the unit coordinating project implementation and would be
responsible for accounting and disbursement for all components. PC has been assessed as being a suitable
lead implementing agency; it has a small, competent and appropriately remunerated group of staff with
adequate advisory support.
Financial Management: Since the PC has been the beneficiary of an IDF grant, it had familiarity with IDA
procedures which it has built upon in the process of managing the funds disbursed under PPF. Given the
substantially larger amount of funds to be provided under the project, IDA staff have conducted a fnancial
management assessment, found a level of compliance with IDA requirements sufficient to implement
traditional IDA disbursements commencing from project effectiveness, and agreed to an Action Plan which
would allow for PMR based disbursements to commence after June 2001.
Procurement: PC would be responsible for procurement coordination and taking the lead in preparing
project-wide procurement documentation. Specifically, PC has coordinated the preparation of an Overall
Procurement Plan (OPP), which has been finalized at appraisal together with a Detailed Procurement Plan
(DPP) for the first year of the project. The procurement assessments of all implementing agencies have
been completed and the Action Plan for strengthening procurement agreed to prior to Board presentation.
5. Social:
The project will improve service delivery in the utility sectors thereby reducing a major constraint to private
sector development. Further, by introducing competition - wherever feasible - into the utility sectors, it
would introduce strong incentives to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Finally, by reducing the public
investment in the utility sectors and increasing tax revenue from privatized entities, it will free up scarce
public resources for investment in social programs and other priority activities.
The project is not financing retrenchment costs. However, in order to ensure that this matter is handled
equitably in the future, the government and IDA agreed during appraisal to the principles outlined in
section B3 above which would be employed for retrenchment of workers in relation to the privatization
program.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
No major environmental impact is envisaged. The privatization process will involve some PEs that might
be the source of pollution or other enviromnental problems related to on-going and future practices (e.g.
PEs operating in power generation). Gaps in environmental laws in relation to environmental problems in
sectors planned for privatization would be identified and analyzed. This is important in overall country
sector strategies for privatization, as well as in individual sectoral or large-scale privatization projects. If
the environmental aspects are appropriately addressed, the proposed reforms may produce positive
enviromnental effects, such as, increased efficiency in the use of natural resources and more rapid adoption
of cleaner technologies. The opportunities for enhancing the positive synergy between environmental
protection and privatization would be explored and maximized during Environmental Assessment (EA)
process, and also, as part of the policy dialogue, rather than treated as mutually exclusive.
The approach adopted has been to agree on a specific set of guidelines for conducting EA but to defer
conducting the EAs closer to when the privatization transaction would occur. The government with funding
- 14 -



from IDA PPF hired a private consultant to carry out an environmental audit of MTL, which is in the
process of being privatized. The report evaluated the existing environmental problems resulting from
activities while under public sector ownership and developed an Audit Action Plan which will assist MTL
to take necessary and appropriate measures to clean up existing environmental damage, protect and manage
the environrent in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Environmental Management Act, 1996
and the World Bank's safeguard policies in particular OP/BP/GP 4.01. Details of the findings and the
recommendations of the EA report and the Action Plan are in Annex 11.
In accordance with the safeguard policies, a pre-screening of privatization candidates to be funded under
the project was undertaken and the list of privatization candidates for which environmental audits and/or
assessments would be undertaken was agreed and is included in Annex 11. When such audits/assessments
are undertaken prior to transactions, they will be reviewed and cleared by the Bank.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Consultations have been taking place at several levels. PC has membership from a variety of stakeholders
including as ex-officio members: the Secretary to the Treasury, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of
Malawi, the Solicitor General and Secretary for Justice, representatives from all three major political
parties, a representative from the Malawi Congress of Trade Unions, the General Manager of the Malawi
Investment Promotion Agency and the Executive Director, Malawi Chamber of Commerce and Industry. At
the level of the project itself, PEs and regulatory agencies are members of the project steering committee
and design team.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Each sector reform Task Force (telecommunications, power and water) has included membership from a
variety of stakeholders specifically impacted by the sector reform program. Further, IDA preparation
missions have consulted with all concerned donors in the country and will continue consultations during
project supervision.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project provides technical assistance for a well defined, timebound process of enterprise divestiture
under the privatization component and pre-privatization assistance to get PEs to the point of divestiture
under the pre-privatization assistance component. Once the transactions are completed, there should be no
need for continuing assistance in this regard. Similarly, the postal sector support component has been
designed so that IDA funding is utilized for financing upfront investment and start-up management support
for the new MPC. Subsidy requirements for the frst two years are to be met from the government budget
and thereafter increased tariffs, volume of business and cost efficiencies should lead to break-even
operation. Finally, under the regulatory component, initial support is being provided for strengthening
regulatory functions in recent reformed sectors. The key sustainability issue relates to ensuring that
sufficient skills are developed in regulation and sufficient financing is available for the new created
regulatory agencies.
- 15 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk0 RiskX  0Rat:ing   I                        ^Risk MiniMiai  Meaur
From Outputs to Objective
Reduced political commitment to              S        The sector reform/privatization agenda has been
liberalization/privatization process.                 at the center of the dialogue on the structural
adjustment program. This risk is mitigated by
having close linkage between actions financed
through the project and adjustment program.
Political commitment to reduce subsidies     S        The impact of subsidies on the fiscal position of
to population groups currently benefiting             the government would be highlighted and
from subsidies provided by PEs is not                 addressed through the Public Expenditure
continued.                                            Review process.
Investor interest in bidding for privatized  S        Professional extemal advisors with close links to
entities is not adequate.                             the potential investment community are to be
funded under the project. Improving macro
economic situation should also send positive
signals to potential investors.
Government does not maintain                M         Initial tariff increases approved as of April 1,
subventions to Malawi Posts Corporation               2000. Subvention has been included as legal
and MACRA does not approve further                    obligation under the credit.
rate increases required for cost recovery.
From Components to Outputs
Power sector policy statement allowing       S         Timetable for approval of Sector policy
for divestiture transactions to occur needs           statement, which will allow for restructuring and
to be approved by govermment.                          associated legislation was agreed during
appraisal.
Water sector policy statement which is      M          Private sector participation options study to be
still to be formulated may not allow                  undertaken in the second half of 2000.
adequately for private sector
participation.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 16 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Final Project Implementation Plan.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Covenants:
* Government to provide subvention to Malawi Posts Corporation in line with the MPC Business Plan
up to a maximum amount of US$3 million over the project period;
*  Government to decide on approach to and implementation plan for multi-sectoral regulatory body by
December 31, 2001;
*  Government taking adequate steps, satisfactory to IDA, to bring to point of sale, in accordance with the
schedule and modalities in PIM, twelve PEs for which TA services are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit.
H. Readiness for Implementation
U 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
L 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
LD1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Gaiv M. Tata                    ibemba Ba                         Barbara Kafkla()
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators-         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Creating broad-based labor   Improvements in employment                           Private sector led growth is
intensive growth          indicators and per capita                               necessary given resource
income indicators                                     constrained situation of the
public sector
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve quality of and  1. Increase in the number of  Annual report from the   Removal of infrastructure
access to economic and     working telephone lines from  regulatory agencies      constraints to PSD will allow
physical infrastructure for    40,000 to 150,000 by                               economy to grow at a faster
private sector development   December 31, 2004.                                   pace
(PSD).
2. Increase in percentage of   Annual report of the    Macro-economic conditions
population with grid-based    Privatisation Commission  will be conducive to private
electricity from 4 percent to                         sector entities implementing
6percent by December 31,                              investment/expansion
2004.                                                 programs
3. Improvements in postal
sector indicators: mail posted
from one city for delivery in
another city is delivered by the
third day of posting will
increase from 65 percent to 80
percent by December 31,
2004.
4. Increase in the number of
letters handled per staff per
annum from 45,610 to 62,903
by December 31, 2004.
- 18 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (fo   upts to Objective)
component:
A. Divestiture of Government 1. Sale of controlling interest  1. Sale agreements  Cotne  olitical
ownership in              in Malawi Telecom to                                  commitment to
telecommunications, power,  strategic investor by June 30, 2. Periodic reporting from  liberalization/privatization
water and other identified PEs 2001.                 Privatisation Commission   process
2. Divestiture of generation
and distribution per ( to be
agreed) power sector policy
statement by June 30, 2002.
3. Divestiture of water boards
per sector policy statement to
be prepared after PSP options
study by June 30, 2004.
4. Sale/divestiture of 7
identified PEs by December
31, 2004.
B1. Review of need for and, if 1. Review need for    1. Completion of study     Continued political
appropriate, establishment of establishment of MSR by                           commitment to make
multi-sectoral regulator for   December 31, 2001.                               transparent and reduce
utilities and public services                                                   subsidies to population groups
2. If appropriate, legislation to 2. Legislation
establish MSR enacted by
December 31, 2002.
3. If appropriate, MSR    3. Assessments by supervision
established and operational   missions
(regulations in place, Board
members appointed and key
staff recruited as per staffing
plan) by December 31, 2003.
B2. Strengthening of       1. Strengthening of MACRA  1. Assessments by supervision Parallel financing from
regulatory functions in   operations.                missions.                  DANIDA for Telecom
telecommunications, posts,                                                      regulation
power and railways.       2. Strengthening of EC
operations.
3. Strengthening of railways
regulation in Ministry of
Transport.
- 19 -



C. Completion of postal   1. Improvements in postal    1. Annual reports by MPC    Sufficient investors interest in
investment program.       sector indicators: mail posted                       bidding for privatized entities
from one city for delivery in  2. GOM Annual Budget
another city is delivered by the document
third day of posting will
increase from 65 percent to 80
percent by December 31,
2004.
2. Increase in the number of
letters handled per staff per
annum from 45,610 to 62,903
by December 31, 2004.
3. Elimination of subsidy
requirements by June 30,
2004.
DI. Pre-privatization     1. Completion of agreed    1. Assessments by supervision Agreed tariff increases are
assistance to ESCOM       pre-privatization program  missions                  allowed for postal rates and
consistent with divestiture                          government provides agreed
timetable.                                           subventions for postal sector
D2. Pre-privatization     1. Achievement of Year 2000 1. Assessments by supervision
assistance to MTL         compliance by MTL         missions
- 20 -



Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Privatization component   US$ 15.2 million         Project quarterly reports   Agreed sector policy
statements allowing for
2. Regulatory component    US$5.3 million                                         divestiture transactions to
occur and for regulatory
3. Postal sector support   US$9.6 million                                         functions to be implemented
by appropriate agencies
4. Pre-privatization assistance US$2.1 million
-21 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$15.20 million
Privatization Component. This component would finance consultancy services for privatization
transactions associated with three utility sectors (telecommunications, power and water) and seven other
identified non-utility transactions as described below.
A. Utility Sector Privatization
Malawi Telecommunications Ltd
A substantial sector reform agenda preceded the commencement of the privatization of telecommunications
and is described in the Communications Sector Policy statement of August, 1998 and in the
Communications Act of December, 1998. The key goals established in the sector policy are:
* to increase the number of working telephone lines to not less than 150,000 by the end of year 2003;
* to raise quality of service to intemational standards;
- to stimulate the provision of new services within Malawi;
-  to reduce the price of telecommunication services in real terms; to extend access to modem
telecommunication services throughout the country according to a defned program covering rural
areas;
*  to open up the provision of telecommunication services to the private sector.
The key elements of the reform agenda consist of:
i separation of postal and telecommunication activities into two separate entities - Malawi
Telecommunications and Malawi Postal Corporation;
9  separation of regulatory functions and establishment of the Malawi Communications Regulatory
Authority (MACRA) and immediate liberalization of all services other than basic voice telephone -
which is to be subject to an initial period of exclusivity of five years for the incumbent MTL -
which is to be privatized;
3  the establishment of a plan to bring MPC into self-sufficiency with government subsidy during the
first two years of its operation.
Implementation of the reform agenda has commenced with MACRA, MTL and MPC having been
established. The transaction advisory services (investment banking and legal advisors) for the privatization
of Malawi Telecommunications Limited are being financed under the project. Given the urgency of meeting
the second tranche release conditions under the FRDP II project (i.e. appointment of the transaction
advisors), the government undertook a consultancy selection process between March to September 1999.
As a result the selected consultants came on board in October 1999 and a contract in the amount of
US$1,263,980 was signed. In order to finance these services, a first tranche of PPF amounting to
US$650,000 was approved by IDA and the funds utilized to make initial payments to the consultants.
Further, under DANIDA financing, additional consultancies are underway to assist in the separation of the
telecommunications and posts businesses within MPTC and to MACRA for the preparation of licenses.
The transaction advisory consultants are currently working with the objective of producing a privatization
options report by late May 2000. Within one month of the government indicating its preferred option, the
consultants would produce the information memorandum for sale.
-22 -



The Communications Sector Policy Statement provides a five year period of exclusivity for basic services
to MTL from the date of its incorporation. Given the irnpact that this might have on the development of the
sector and further given that the exclusivity could potentially constitute an anti-competitive trade practice in
terms of the Competition and Fair Trading Act No 43 of 1998 (which is awaiting implementation), the
government plans to immediately revisit this issue. This review would be completed and a final decision
reached prior to the issuance of the Information Memorandum for the sale of MTL.
Electricity
The reform process started in 1998 and initially resulted in the revised Electricity Act, 1998.
Implementation of the reform agenda has commenced with: (i) the establishment of the Electricity
Council (EC) in January 1999; (ii) the incorporation of ESCOM in July 1998 into a limited liability
company wholly owned, for the time being, by the government; (iii) the transfer of all assets, liabilities,
property and staff of the old ESCOM to the new ESCOM Limited; and (iv) commencement of a
commercialization program for ESCOM. In addition, a Task Force was appointed to oversee the
commercialization program as well as to formulate a power sector policy statement. This has since
resulted in the draft Power Sector Policy Statement of July, 1999 which is still awaiting cabinet
approval and the draft revised Electricity Bill, 2000, which had been published for consideration by
Parliament. The key elements of the sector policy statement were the separation of ESCOM into
generation, transmission and distribution units and commencement of privatization of distribution
immediately with subsequent privatization of generation. However, the Bill had been withdrawn from
consideration by Parliarnent since there were concems within government regarding the proposed
unbundling of ESCOM into several units. The Task Force was therefore reconvened in early May 2000
and begun the process of reviewing the sector in light of these concerns. This review indicated that the
proposed sector structure was fundamentally sound but that some fine tuning of the structure and
further clarifications on how this would assist in fulfilling the objective of introducing competition into
the sector would need to be provided. The next steps are for the sector policy to be revised and
submitted to cabinet in July-August 2000 and for the Bill to be sent to Parliament in October 2000.
In order to improve the financial viability of the sector, the proposed approach in the sector policy
statement is to privatize the distribution assets first. Within six months of the approval of the policy, an
adviser would be appointed by PC to recommend on the privatization of distribution and to oversee the
implementation of the transaction. Further, within 18 months of the approval of the policy, PC would
be expected to complete the transaction for privatization of distribution. With regard to generation,
steps will be undertaken after policy approval to set up ESCOM generation as a separate entity and to
undertake a study to establish the feasibility of splitting ESCOM's existing generation assets into
commercially viable competing companies and privatizing some or all of those units. The privatization
of generation would be undertaken within 18 months after the privatization of distribution is completed.
An amount of US$2 million has been budgeted for each of the transactions for the privatization of
distribution and generation. This is in addition to the amounts being allocated directly to ESCOM to
cover pre-privatization assistance.
-23 -



Water
Over the past 20 years, the urban water boards in Malawi have received support with institutional and
infrastructure development under several projects funded by the Development Bank of Southern Africa,
the African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Nordic Development Fund and IDA
including through the ongoing IDA funded National Water Development and Third Lilongwe Water
Supply Projects. With support from these projects, the urban water boards have expanded facilities,
extended service coverage and have introduced some measures to improve efficiency. However, the
financial condition of the Boards has deteriorated in recent years despite tariff increases. Therefore, the
involvement of the private sector is considered essential in order to establish autonomy and appropriate
incentive structures so that improvements made under previous and ongoing projects can be sustained,
the poor can be better served, and the growing demand for water can be met.
A consultant will be engaged from alternative grant funding to evaluate options for PSP in the water
sector and assist the Ministry of Water Development and Water Boards to identify a preferred option
based on an assessment of the current situation in Malawi as well as best practice, particularly in
Africa. Options to be considered will include: (i) whether there is sufficient technical and fnancial
capacity in Malawi to implement some sort of local PSP option, (ii) whether it will be necessary and
feasible to attract an International Private Partner, or (iii) how, in the absence of interest and capacity
of either local or international partners, an arms length contractual relationship can be developed to
accomplish the objectives of sustainability, reliability and affordability. The preferred option will be
identified through consultation with representatives of the two urban water boards currently responsible
for water supply in Blantyre and Lilongwe, the Ministry of Water Development, PC, municipal
authorities, consumer groups and other interested parties. Workshops will be held to elicit views and
concerns of stakeholders and to build consensus. The PSP Options study will be performed in
conjunction with development of a Cost Recovery Strategy. Through an iterative process a preferred
PSP option will be identified that can provide for sustainability by considering both the affordability of
service and the financial viability of the service provider(s). On the basis of this work, it is expected
that particular types of divestiture would be identified. The advisory services associated with
implementing the chosen divestiture/privatization transaction would be financed under the project. An
amount of US$1.5 million has been provided for in the project to cover the cost of the study and the
privatization of the two Water Boards.
B. Non-Utility Privatization
Additional identified and unscheduled transactions. As noted earlier, there is an ongoing privatization
program with a government approved Divestiture Sequence Plan consisting of at least sixty five PEs (out of
the original list of hundred), which still need to be completed. Some of the divestitures will require fairly
significant resources for transaction advisory services. Seven entities to be privatized were identified during
appraisal. In addition to telecommunications, water and power distribution and generation, these are:
Agriculture Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC); Commercial Bank of Malawi, Air
Malawi; Malawi Rural Finance Corporation; Tourism Development and Investment Corporation; Malawi
Housing Corporation; and Malawi Savings Bank. Five additional transactions, which are currently not
scheduled, were identified (National Bank of Malawi, David Whitehead and Sons, Shire Bus Line, airports
privatization and Indebank/Fund) and it is expected that a minimum of two of these would be funded
through the project. The first year's work program for the entire privatization program (July 2000 - June
2001) was appraised and this process is expected to continue throughout the project with an annual review
of the work program at which time, the unscheduled transactions to be funded would also be agreed
between PC and IDA. Further details on the non-utility privatization transactions are provided below.
-24 -



Financial Sector
The restructuring of Malawi's financial sector began eleven years ago with the passage of the Banking
Act, 1989. Despite progress made in the last four years, Malawi's financial services sector remains
shallow, with the asset side concentrated in government securities, the liabilities in bank deposits, the
bulk of its revenues through investments in treasury bills and other govermment paper, and more income
from investment income rather than its lending activity. Further, the sector is dominated by two banks,
both of whom are partially owned by the government. The securities market is growing, but slowly.
There is little activity in the secondary debt markets due to the captive nature of the main holders of
government securities.
The are several key issues constraining financial sector growth: (i) interlocking shareholding, which
ensures that connected lending and inevitably reduces the effectiveness of prudential lending limits; (ii)
ADMARC and MDC are both owners and major borrowers from major commercial banks which has
the tendency of crowding out the private sector; (iii) the incumbent position of the two major banks (
National Bank of Malawi - NBM and Commercial Bank of Malawi - CBM) reduces the effectiveness
of competition in the market, resulting in a limitation of the quality and quantity of services available.
To address these inhibitions the government proposes to accelerate the reform process by increased
sector liberalization, regulation, restructuring and privatization. Two studies, funded from FRDP II,
which looked at rationalizing the regulatory framework across the whole sector and reviewing
privatization options have recently been concluded.
With regard to privatization, 75 percent of Fincom was recently disposed of to Nedbank of South
Africa, with the remaining 25 percent to be disposed of to the public within five years. Work is in
progress to list NBM on the Malawi Stock Exchange in conjunction with an offering of seven percent
of the bank to the general public. CBM was listed on the Malawi Stock Exchange in 1998, when 12
percent of the bank was offered to the public. Subject to the agreement of the government, it is
proposed to dispose of up to 51 percent of CBM to a strategic investor. In a similar manner, it is
proposed that a strategic partner be found for the NBM. PC, in conjunction with Lonrho, is also in the
process of disposing of a controlling interest in the New Building Society; this transaction is being
funded by USAID. The Malawi Rural Finance Corporation, which is wholly owned by the government,
will also be examined with a view to privatizing the company once it has been put on a sound
commercial basis. It is planned that a consultant will be appointed first to recommend the steps needed
to put the company on a proper commercial footing, and then to help implement the changes required.
Privatization of the Corporation would then follow. A similar process is proposed for the Malawi
Savings Bank, although it is likely that the whole process will take longer than in the case of the
Malawi Rural Finance Corporation given the banks close and problematic ties to MPTC.
An amount of US$150,000 has been provided for each of the searches for strategic partners for the two
main commercial banks. For Malawi Rural Finance a sum of US$500,000 has been allowed for the
complete restructuring and privatization process. Given the greater problems with the Malawi Savings
Bank, US$750,000 has been provided for its restructuring and privatization.
Agriculture
Since its establishment, ADMARC has been the public sector's principal marketing channel for
non-perishable agricultural inputs and agricultural produce in Malawi. However, due to liberalization
and the advent of private trading, ADMARC's purchases of maize and other crops from primary
producers in Malawi have declined substantially in recent years. The government is committed to
turning over the cereals market and other markets to private traders, wholesalers and retailers, with the
ultimate objective to withdrawing altogether from agricultural marketing. The government is mindful
- 25 -



that the operation of the cereals markets has implications for food security. Consequently it plans to
effect the transition to private ownership and trade in a way that causes the least disruption and adverse
impact on the incomes and food security of the poorest. The government is ,therefore, in the process of
developing a framework for the reform of agricultural marketing in Malawi in a way that: balances the
concerns inherent in improving the efficiency of ADMARC's constituent enterprises; spreads
ownership and control of marketing resources among the population; and maintains the access of
smallholders to key marketing services. A program for the commercialization and progressive
privatization of ADMARC, covering a period of approximately three years, has been prepared and will
be implemented on its approval by the government. A sum of
US$300,000 has been provided in the project to cover this process.
Tourism Development and Investment Company of Malawi Ltd (TDIC)
TDIC is wholly owned by Malawi Development Corporation (MDC). It is the majority shareholder of
the chain of eight hotels commonly known as Malawi Hotels. TDIC is included on the Divestiture
Sequence Plan and was originally scheduled to be privatized in 1999. A considerable amount of
discussion had already taken place as to whether the chain should be sold as a single unit or split up
into individual hotels prior to sale. However, in 1999, in an effort to raise funds for its own use, MDC
pledged its shares in TDIC. This precluded any further work on the privatization of TDIC in the short
term. It is hoped that the shares in TDIC will no longer be encumbered by 2003 and work on the
privatization of the company will again be able to commence.
Utnsckeduled Transactions
Five transactions which are like to occur during the term of the project and which are large enough to
warrant IDA funding have been identified. These transactions include finding a strategic partner for
NBC and privatizing David Whitehead and Sons, Shire Bus Line (previously Stagecoach), airports, and
IndebankWFund. It was agreed that these transactions could be substituted for the non-utility
transactions or that up to two such transactions could be funded in addition to the seven non-utility
divestitures with specific agreement between IDA and PC at the time that these transactions are to be
funded from the project. To cover the possibility that these transactions would be additional, funding of
US$0.6 million has been included under the privatization component.
C. Other Privatization Support
Long Term Advisor
Since February 1997 the PC has had a long term advisor to assist it in its work. However, the current
contract for the advisor finishes in October 2000 and future funding may not be available. To continue
to provide PC with the assistance of an advisor with international experience, particularly during the
project period when a number of major transactions are expected to be undertaken, the Privatization
Component includes financing to cover the cost of one long-term advisor at an annual cost of
US$300,000
-26 -



Participation by Malawians
There are political, social and economical reasons for encouraging participation by the population at
large in the privatization program. Politically, such participation offers a means to gain support for
privatization. In many African countries, the population, uncertain of the potential consequences of
privatization, has opposed privatization or at least has not actively supported it. By ensuring that
citizens receive some direct benefit, the government stands a chance to win support for the privatization
programs. Socially, participation offers a way of providing more equitable distribution of wealth in the
country, as well as avoiding a perception that the privatization program benefits only foreigners,
wealthy individuals, or certain groups in society. Economically, participation benefits the country by
providing a means to expand and deepen capital markets, and to improve the efficiency of the country's
industries. For these reasons, as noted in the background section, one of the four specified objectives of
the Malawian privatization program is to "promote participation by the Malawian public in
enterprises."
PC has pursued this objective in a number of ways: (i) the regulations to the Privatisation Act allow
Malawian investors to purchase enterprises on deferred payment terms; (ii) the Commission is in the
process of establishing a collective investment scheme which will allow Malawians to purchase shares
in a range of enterprises which they would otherwise not be able to participate in; (iii) a loan scheme,
managed by Indebank and funded by the EIB, allows Malawian entrepreneurs to borrow funds
specifically for the purpose of purchasing a controlling interest in an enterprise being privatized; (iv) a
number of profitable PEs have been listed on the Malawi Stock Exchange following an initial public
offering and through this process about 10,000 Malawian shareholders have been created; and finally
(v), a Special Fund has been established to assist individual Malawians to purchase shares of public
enterprises being listed on the Malawi Stock Exchange. While IDA is unable to fmance the purchase of
existing assets and, therefore, cannot provide funds for Malawian participation in the privatization
program, given the importance of Malawi Participation to the progress of the whole privatization
program, a portion of funds may be utilized to fund a study into alternative methods of promoting
participation. If an appropriate program can be devised within the constraints of IDA's articles of
association and which could be demonstrated to have additionally with regard to current arrangements,
it would be considered for financing under the Private Sector Development Project which is currently
under preparation.
Task Force Operating Expenses
As part of the privatization process for larger enterprises a task force comprising the major
stakeholders involved with the enterprise is usually established. These task forces meet as required to
coordinate and expedite the work of the various parties involved in the restructuring and privatization.
To date task forces have been set up to oversee the restructuring work being undertaken by MTL, MPC
and ESCOM. The task forces typically include, as a minimum, the enterprise itself, the Treasury, the
line ministry involved, PC and the regulatory authority. It is envisioned that further task forces will
need to be established as privatization work extends into other utilities. To meet the operating costs of
these various task forces a sum of US$200,000 has been included in the project.
-27 -



Communication Campaign
There are still concerns from a variety of stakeholders including labor, which is concerned about
possible redundancies, and consumers who are concerned about increases in prices of services. It is
therefore necessary to continue with the process of disseminating information regarding the positive
welfare gains produced by privatization as evidenced by positive experiences elsewhere and in Malawi.
To achieve that goal, PC would intensify its campaigns via print, electronic and other forms of
publicity; employ, on a retainer basis, a Public Relations firm to assist with this task; and periodically
cany out opinion polls. An amount of US$27,000 per annum has been budgeted for this function.
Training
Staff of PC will receive some training through seminars and short courses to keep abreast of latest
developments For this purpose, a modest amount of US$40,000 for the entire duration of the project,
has been set aside. This will also cover the cost of some initial training in World Bank procurement and
accounting procedures for the additional staff member PC intends to employ with Project funding to
assist with the management of the project.
Project Component 2 - US$5.30 million
Support to regulatory institutions. This component would help in enhancing the operations of the Malawi
Communications Regulatory Authority for postal and telecommunications regulation, the Electricity
Council for power regulation and the railways regulatory activities in the Ministry of Transport. Further,
this component would also assist the Ministry of Finance in establishing a multi-sectoral regulator once a
decision has been taken in this regard.
Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority
MACRA was established after the passage of the Communications Act, 1998 but has become fully
operational only in early 2000 with financing assistance provided by DANIDA and initial fees that it has
begun to collect for licenses. It has only five staff but is in the process of further recruitment, especially in
the postal area. The main areas of support would relate to technical assistance (TA), training and
equipment for frequency/spectrum monitoring. TA would consist of approximately four person years of
consultants to fund one long-term resident advisors each for posts and for telecommunications for a period
of one year. These individuals would be in place during the critical start-up period during the first year of
the licenses being issued to MPC and the privatized MTL. In addition to the on-the-job training being
provided by the long-term advisors, some limited training on specific topics would also be provided to
MACRA staff. Thereafter, an additional two person years of short-term consultants over the life of the
project.
The frequency monitoring equipment would constitute the major assistance to MACRA since it is expected
to cost around US$3 million; the project would fund around US$2.5 million of this investment. There is,
however, a sufficient business case for acquiring the equipment since revenues can be generated from the
charges resulting therefrom. The expected strategy is for an investment of around US$1 .5-2 million to be
made in the first phase, which would generate additional revenue streams from charging telecommunication
and broadcasting operators for the actual use that is made of the frequency spectrum. This should allow
for the investments to be recovered in around three years. Consequently, in the second phase of equipment
acquisition (during the final year of the project), the project would finance only 2/3 of the additional
investment costs. The government would ensure that the additional revenue streams arising from the first
phase of equipment acquisition will be made available to partially finance the second phase of equipment
acquisition.
- 28 -



Electricity Council
The council was established pursuant to the Electricity Act, 1998 and has been operational since early
1999. It currently has five staff. The main areas of support to be provided to EC relate to the provision of
limited short-term technical assistance of around two months per year, short courses for training especially
in economic regulation, vehicles and computing equipment and testing equipment for safety monitoring.
Railways regulation
In order to provide comfort to the new franchisee, the Ministry of Transport has appointed one of its staff
as, de facto, the regulator. There is need to provide TA to this new regulator in establishing an appropriate
work program and implementing the first year of this work program. The government is expecting to
receive grant funding from USAID for this activity; the project would only finance activities which are not
otherwise financed by USAID or other donors.
Multi-Sectoral Regulator (MSR)
GOM plans to undertake a comprehensive evaluation of the benefits and disadvantages of establishing a
single MSR for all utilities and public services. If the findings of this evaluation are favorable, the
government would then proceed with the establishment of MSR. The project would, hence, assist the GOM
in three phases. The first phase, which would be completed by December 31, 2001, would consist of a
study which would review existing regulatory arrangements and establish the benefits/costs of establishing
MSR. If the recommendations of this study are to establish MSR, then in the second phase, a time-bound
action plan for the design and establishment of MSR and the drafting and approval of relevant legislation
would be developed by December 31, 2002. In the third phase, the plan would be implemented, which
could be expected to include the merging of existing regulatory bodies and staffing and training of staff of
the newly established MSR.
For the initial study of assessing the appropriateness of establishing MSR, the government plans to seek
grant financing from the Public/Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility; if such funding is not
forthcoming, the work would be funded under the project. The second and third phases, which would be
completed by the end of the project, would consist of the design and implementation of this plan which
could be expected to include the merging of existing regulatory bodies and staffing and training of staff of
the newly established MSR. During the phases of deciding on the need for MSR and designing MSR, the
project would provide support to EC and MACRA - which are candidate institutions for merger into MSR
- since the areas covered by the project support capacity building in sectoral and technical activities would
continue to be required in the multi-sectoral regulator. Further, once the plan has been defned, the project
would support the establishment of the multi-sectoral regulator and the transitional arrangements for
combining several agencies into one.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.60 million
Postal sector support. Postal services are limited to delivery of mail to private letter boxes. There is a
considerable waiting list for this service (17,955 as compared to 51,111 installed boxes). Over time, the
volume of mail has declined overall and especially in the lucrative market segments due to competition.
The basic stamp rate of 60 tambala (approximately 1.3 US cents at the current exchange rate) and of box
rentals of 45 kwacha per annum (approximately US$1 had resulted in tariffs well below costs.
Consequently, the services had to be funded through a considerable subsidy from the telephone services.
There has been a lack of capital investment in MPC; for example, more than 75 percent of the mail delivery
fleet is more than three years old with a considerable portion of it being much older. Basic infrastructure
required for handling letters and parcels (e.g. conveyor belts, postal counter equipment, date stamps) are
- 29 -



not available even in the large post offices. Further, extremely limited funds are available for basic
maintenance of buildings and equipment.
A Business Plan for MPC has been prepared and based on this plan, MACRA approved a rate increase
effective April 1, 2000 of the basic stamp rate to 2 kwacha (approximately 5 US cents) and for the private
boxes in a range between 100-2500 kwacha per annum (approximately US$2-55 depending on box size,
location (urban vs. rural) and nature of usage (individuals vs. companies). The revenues earned since the
rate increases in the month of April 2000 indicate a substantial increase in total revenues as compared to
previous periods. It is, however, difficult to assess whether there will be a significant impact on volumes
handled due to the price increases. Based on the business plan, the Ministry of Finance will allocate in its
FY2001 budget a provision of subsidy for postal services.
In conjunction with the rate increases and the government subvention, the project would support a
substantial investment program in improving the operational infrastructure of MPC. This would focus
primarily on:
* Modernizing the vehicle fleet of MPC, given that it is old and difficult to maintain and a significant
proportion is grounded. The vehicles would be largely purchased up front and consist of heavy and
light mail vans, twin cab pickup trucks, motorcycles and bicycles.
*  Increasing the satellite delivery units, post office boxes and street pillar boxes. Given the recent
substantial increases in post office box rental rates (from US$1 to between US$2-5 5 per annum), there
may be some impact on the waiting list. The investment program is, however, phased evenly over the
first three years of the project and this would allow for adjustments to be made to the level of
procurement if the demand for the boxes should reduce as a result of the higher tariffs.
*  Improvements in information systems/information technology in business and administrative systems.
A two stage approach in this area is envisaged. In the first phase, the initial investment would be
largely in the area of standalone computers at postal headquarters - given the very low level of
technology in use, there is urgent need for this procurement. At the same time, MPC would hire
consultancy support for the design and installation of a local area network at MPC headquarters which
would allow for greater impact from the technology. It would also begin the process of purchasing
off-the-shelf applications for its financial management/management information systems - which need
to be acquired since the financial management systems currently in use would be kept by MTL and
would no longer be available for MPC's usage. MPC would also review its critical business systems
(e.g. counters) and define a program for improving information systems/technology in these systems.
In the second phase, MPC would install the local area network at its headquarters, complete installation
of its financial management systems and begin the process of implementing improvements to its
business systems. Given the limited information systems/technology skills within MPC, this would be
a key area of support provided by its twinning partner, as discussed below.
The investment program needs to be accompanied by significant improvements in the human resources in
MPC. The process has commenced with the hiring of some key senior staff from outside MPC in order to
build the nucleus of a commercially oriented management team. However, this needs to be supplemented
quickly by expertise in postal management - which can best be transferred from another postal
administration or associated postal services consulting entities. Hence, the project would finance MPC
entering into a twinning relationship with another organization. It is envisaged that the support to MPC will
be in reviewing business systems and improving effectiveness and efficiency through: improving
management and business processes and enhancing use of Information systems/technology; and developing
- 30 -



a human resource development plan and associated training plan. The twinning partner would also assist in
implementing part of the MIPC training plan including through provision of in-country on-the-job and
classroom training to MPC staff as well as organizing exchange/secondment of MPC staff to the twinning
partner's own country.
Project Component4 - US$2.10 million
Pre-prtvatization Assistance. This component would support restructuring activities in ESCOM and Year
2000 compliance activities in MTL.
Malawi Telecom Limited. The main assistance is with regard to the Year 2000 compliance. Given the
urgency of reaching compliance prior to December 1999, IDA provided a second tranche of PPF to assist
MTL in ordering hardware and software "fixes" required to achieve compliance.
ESCOM. ESCOM has identified several key activities which are required in order for privatization to
proceed smoothly. Key among these are advisory services for a tariff rebalancing study, preparing separate
accounts for the new Strategic Business Units as well as high voltage metering equipment which is required
in order to separate the billing of generation, transmission and distribution.
-31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
4 -
Privatization Program                                     2.65        10.67        13.32
Regulatory Reform                                         0.00         4.82         4.82
Postal Sector Support                                     3.03         6.01         9.04
Pre-Privatization Assistance                              0.00         2.00         2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       5.68        23.50        29.18
Physical Contingencies                                   0.14         1.12         1.26
Price Contingencies                                      0.78         0.98         1.76
Total Project Costs              6.60        25.60        32.20
Total Financing Required              6.60         25.60        32.20
- 32 -



Annex 4
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Cost Benefit Analysis
1.    The project's primary focus is on the provision of Technical Assistance in support of the
privatization and utility reform process and towards building regulatory capacity. This support will be
catalytic in utility sector reform which in turn is expected to lead to increasing service access and quality;
the key performance indicators for the project (which are contained in Annex I) focus on improvements in
service access and quality as the measures of the projecfs development impact. There will also be a
number of economic benefits including (i) productivity gains; (ii) increased output resulting from additional
capital investment by privatized firms; (iii) additional income from the net creation of jobs in the private
sector, (iv) factor cost savings from the reduction of average production costs of utility companies; and (v)
consumer surplus from improved access and quality of utility services provided. However, the support
provided under the project will constitute only a small proportion of the overall investment leading to these
economic benefits and it was, hence, not considered appropriate to attribute these to the project.
Consequently, a cost benefit analysis was not undertaken.
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Years Ending
June
Year 1  I Year 2     Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6| Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.7        9.2        7.3       5.2        2.4        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             2.3       1.0        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          7.0       10.2        7.4       5.2        2.4        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              7.0       10.2        7.4       5.2        2.4        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  4.6        9.4        7.3        5.2       2.4       0.0        0.0
Govemment                  2.4       0.8        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiares     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     7.0       10.2        7.4       5.2        2.4       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used.
2.    Goods and Equipment. For goods procurement packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
each, the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure will be used. National Competitive Bidding
will be used for goods estimated to cost more than US$30,000 but less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, maybe procured under contracts awarded in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines. For goods estimated to cost up to US$30,000 each, National or International
Shopping will be applied, based on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers. For the
purchase of goods to be awarded through ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 15
percent or the amount of applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic
manufacturers of goods in accordance with the Guidelines referred to above. The aggregate for each
procurement method is given in the footnotes under Table A.
3.    Consultants' Services. Consultants' services estimated to cost more than US$200,000 per
contract will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. Such contracts
will be advertised in the Development Business and a national newspaper for expression of interest from
which a shortlist will be drawn. Individual experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of the
consultant guidelines. Selection based on consultants' qualification will be conducted for the training
contracts, in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the consultants guidelines. For the aggregates, see the
footnotes under Table A.
4.    All contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
With respect to Services, prior Bank review will be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the
contract value. For each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has
been evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the
opening of the financial proposals. For contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more the Bank will be
notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial proposals. For
contracts with firns estimated to cost less than US$100,000 the Bank will review and provide its No
Objection to the terms of reference; the rest of the procurement process will be subject to ex-post1Statement
of Expenditures (SOE) review by the Bank during supervision. For contracts with individual consultants
costing US$50,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts
will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
5.    In the section below, specific procurement responsibilities are defined and the application of the
above guidelines to specific activities at the component level are discussed in detail.
-35 -



Procurement activities and responsibilities
6.    The Privatisation Commission would be responsible for procurement co-ordination and taking the
lead in preparing project-wide procurement documentation. The Privatisation Commission has
co-ordinated the preparation of an Overall Procurement Plan (OPP) which has been appraised and assessed
to be of satisfactory quality. A Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year of the project, showing
the procurement method and processing time for each contract has also been prepared and agreed with
IDA. The paragraphs below provide more detailed information on how procurement responsibilities would
be aligned with component level implementation responsibilities of relevant implementing agencies.
7.    The privatization component would be implemented by the Privatisation Commission. Procurement
would primarily consist of acquisition of services from consultancy firms to act as transaction advisors or
to conduct studies associated with sector restructuring/ privatization options. The services would be
acquired primarily through Quality- and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Further, given that the
value of most contracts would exceed US$200,000 it is expected that the majority of shortlists for
consultancy contracts under this component would be drawn up after the issuance of Specific Procurement
Notices inviting expressions of interest from consultants in the Development Business and at least one local
newspaper of wide circulation. A procurement assessment has been conducted for the Privatisation
Commission which has been assessed to have satisfactory procurement procedures. The contract for the
current Privatization Advisor which is due for renewal in October 2000 may, with the approval of IDA, be
extended on the basis of single sourcing.
8.    The regulatory reform component would be implemented by the Ministry of Finance, MACRA, EC
and the railways regulatory staff in the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Finance will take the lead in
initiating the study to establish a multi-sectoral regulator; the Government plans to seek financing from
PPIAF but if this funding is not forthcoming would utilize project resources. Assistance would continue to
be provided to individual regulatory agencies during the interim period in functional and sectoral
specialization through long- and short-term consultants providing Technical Assistance, staff training on
short courses or through study tours/attachments with other regulatory entities and acquisition of office
and/or monitoring equipment. Long-term advisors (in MACRA) and other short-term consultants would
be individuals hired under procedures specified under Section V of the consultancy guidelines with most
contracts being less than 2 months in duration. Given the small number of regulatory staff and the
specialized nature of the training courses, the only viable option will be for short courses with
internationally reputed institutions; agreement will be reached with IDA staff on the course content prior to
identifying alternative institutions where trainees would be sent. Finally, MACRA is likely to acquire
frequency monitoring equipment which will be of substantial value and, hence, subject to Intemational
Competitive Bidding. The Electricity Council will acquire testing equipment of US$10,000 which will be
acquired through international shopping. Procurement assessments have been completed for MACRA and
the Electricity Council. MACRA would hire short-term procurement consultancy support especially in
preparation of the bidding documents for frequency monitoring equipment and would send one or two staff
members for procurement training in IDA procedures. The Electricity Council would primarily procure
goods through local/international shopping and has been assessed to have sufficient capacity for this
purpose.
- 36 -



9.    The postal sector support component would be implemented by the Malawi Posts Corporation.
There are two sub-components - one consisting of IDA funded investments and the other consisting of an
annual subvention from the Government to MPC for the first two years of the project. IDA will be funding
consultants in support of management, training, acquisition of postal and office equipment. The consultants
and training will be packaged into one contract - a twinning arrangement with a reputed postal
administration/postal firm. The selection process for this contract will either be based on QCBS or under
SFB (Selection under a fixed budget); this matter will be resolved with MPC after the Terms of Reference
are finalized. The postal and office equipment will be acquired largely through International Competitive
Bidding; since this will be the component acquiring the most equipment under the project, careful attention
will be given to consolidating the International Competitive Bidding (1CB) goods acquisition under this
component with those to be acquired under other components. Finally, the subvention from the
Government also does not have any procurement implications but does have accounting verification issues.
The procurement assessment for MPC - which is a newly established entity but which will inherit the
systems from MPTC - has been completed. The procurement action plan for MPC includes hiring of
short-term procurement consultants especially in preparation of the bidding documents for vehicles and
postal equipment and sending one or two staff members for procurement training in IDA procedures.
10.   The pre-privatization assistance component would be implemented by ESCOM and MTL. The
pre-privatization assistance to ESCOM relates to consultancy support for tariff reform, establishing the
new accounting systems and initial financial statements for the Strategic Business Units and for the
acquisition of high voltage meters which will allow for appropriate demarcation of revenue streams
between generation, transmission and distribution and subsequently - after privatization - between the
separated entities. ESCOM has been assessed to have sufficient capacity for procurement. The
pre-privatization assistance to MTL focused primarily on the Year 2000 compliance activities; these funds
were provided on a priority basis by IDA as a separate tranche from the Project Preparation Facility. The
bulk of the equipment has been purchased through direct contracting given that hardware and software
remediation measures could be provided only by the vendors which supplied the original hardware or
software.
- 37 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                            7.83           0.00           1.00           0.00           8.83
(7.83)         (0.00)        (1.00)         (0.00)         (8.83)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          20.03           0.00          20.03
(0.00)         (0.00)        (19.79)        (0.00)         (19.79)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00           3.34           0.00           3.34
(0.00.00)                    (0.28)         (0.00)         (0.28)
Total                            7.83           0.00          24.37           0.00          32.20
(7.83)         (0.00)        (21.07)        (0.00)         (28.90)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes goods to be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation, management and monitoring,
including office supplies, vehicles and equipment operation and supervision costs but excluding salaries
of officials of the Borrower.
3/ Figures in parenthesis includes amounts financed from the PPF.
- 38 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms          16.68     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     16..68
(16.41)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (16.41)
B. Individuals    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.77      0.00      2.77
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.77)    (0 .00)    (2 .77)
Total  16.68     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.77      0.00     19.45
1 (16.41)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.77)    (0.00)   (19.18)
I\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-39 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                  a
1.Works                         NA                                              NA
2. Goods                       >100                    ICB                      All
>30<100                  NCB
<30                  Shopping
3. Services
- firms                        >200                    QCBS                     All
<200             Least Cost Selection          >100
- i n d iv i d u a ls         Training                  CQ
- individuals          ~~~>50              INDVIUAL                     All
<50                INDIVIDUAL
No Threshold            Single Source               All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  26.9 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition to the procurement supervision missions, the procurement analyst in the Malawi Country
Office will provide ongoing support to project implementing entities on an as needed basis.
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-40 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
While the first year's disbursements will be made through the traditional method, it is expected that
thereafter the project will disburse through the Loan Administration Change Initiative/Financial
Management Initiative (LACI/FMI). In this method, disbursements will take place based on the submission
to the World Bank of Quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs). For PMR -based disbursements, it
must be certified that the project has in place an adequate accounting and reporting system, including
procurement/contract management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement, and
contracts as well as full financial and out put monitoring indicators produced quarterly as required by the
Bank under the LACI/FMI initiative. Because it may take time to configure the output monitoring reports
and integrate them into the accounting system the project may not be immediately eligible for PMR
disbursements by loan effectiveness .The traditional disbursement procedures of Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) and Special Account (SA) replenishment based on documentation submitted will be
used until the project is ready for PMR disbursements. The readiness for PMR disbursements however, will
continue to be monitored in the interim period and before declaring the credit effective, and plan of action
to achieve readiness or conversion will be used, discussed and elaborated during negotiations. Submission
of contracts for the Banks No Objection will take place for contract values above US$100,000 for goods,
works and consulting firns and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be presented with full
documentation for prior review and disbursement.
The project will be implemented over a four year period, will be completed by June 30, 2004 and will close
on December 31, 2004. An IDA credit of US$28.9 million will finance 90 percent of the total project costs,
including up to US$0.5 million of retroactive financing for costs incurred after June 1, 2000. GOM will
finance the remaining 10 percent in the form of the following contributions: (a) proposed subvention to the
Malawi Posts Corporation in the amount of US$3 million allowing MPC a transitional period within which
it would improve its efficiency and tariffs to fully recover its costs; (b) paying for the success fee (25
percent of the cost of the telecommunications transaction advisory services) by foregoing this amount from
the proceeds of the sale US$0.3 million); and (c) 10 percent contribution to the local costs of goods,
training and incremental operating expenditures purchased under the Credit. Funds provided under the
credit, which relate to the postal sector support component, are also governed by a related project
agreement between IDA and MPC and by a subsidiary grant agreement between GOM and MPC.
- 41 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Consultants and Training                  18.24                        100%
- Part A ($13.34 million)
- Part B ( $2.29 million)
- Part C ($1.59 million)
- Part D ($1.02 million)
Vehicles and Equipment                     7.77          100% for foreign expenditures and 90%
- Part A   ($0.09 million)                                      for local expenditures
- Part B ($2.74 million)
- Part C   ($4.59 million)
- Part D   ($0.35 million)
Operating Costs under Part A of the        0.26            100% for foreign expenditures and
project                                                       90% for local expenditures
Refunding of Project Preparation           1.33                Amount due pursuant to
Advance                                                            Section 2.02 (c)
Unallocated                                1.30
Total Project Costs                       28.90
Total                                     28.90
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
During the first year disbursements for contracts not governed by prior review will be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Specifically, this will result in disbursements for goods and
consultancy contracts (with firms) less than US$100,000 consultancy contracts (with individuals) less than
US$50,000 and all training activities and operating costs being made on the basis of SOEs. Assurances
were received during appraisal that supporting documentation would be maintained by the project at the PC
and be made available for review by the Bank supervision missions. The usage of SOEs would be phased
out when the project is converted to PMR based disbursement after the end of June 2001.
Special account:
PC will open one Special Account (SA) through the Reserve Bank of Malawi with a reputed international
bank in New York with a corresponding local Bank account with any one of the local commercial Banks
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA would be informed of the account opened by the
Reserve Bank of Malawi and would deposit funds into this account after the effectiveness conditions under
the legal agreements have been fulfilled. The initial disbursement for the Special Account will be US$1
million which is based on a forecast of the first six month's expenditures. Replenishments by IDA will
remain at this level until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments shall exceed the US$ equivalent of SDR 2.6 million.
Thereafter, replenishments by IDA will be increased to allow the funds in the Special Account to reach the
authorized allocation of US$2 million. When the project will be considered LACI/EM compliant and
ready for PMR based disbursements, the special account will be replenished based on the PMR submitted
by the project after certification by the financial management and procurement specialists, the disbursement
-42 -



officer and the Task Team Leader.
Disbursement requests will originate from the PC and be endorsed by the Ministry of Finance- Claims Unit
prior to a withdrawal being made from the SA for payments to suppliers. Small payments will be paid
through the local account and all related documentation will have to be kept by the Commission for review
by the Bank missions from time to time. Replenishments of the SA would follow Bank procedures. It will
be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA which would be appointed prior to credit
effectiveness based on an audit scope as contained in terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank six months after the end of each fiscal year for review.
Financial Management Assessment
1. Overall Assessment.
In summary, the project will operate in a low to medium risk environment in terms of financial management
standards and capacity. The financial laws and regulations in Malawi are adequate and accounting and
auditing standards could be considered at par with International standards. There is a professional
association of accountants (the Society of Accountants in Malawi or SOCAM) and Malawi is a member of
both International Federation of Accountants and Eastern, Central and Southern African Federation of
Accountants. The accounting profession is well developed especially in the private sector though the
number of qualified accountants is still very small; the public sector's accounting capacity is inadequate
mainly owing to low pay. GOM's budgeting system is to make budgetary allocations for the following year
at Ministerial and Departmental of expenditures based on levels of expenditure in prior year. The budgets
are consolidated by the Ministry of Finance and approved by Parliament. The Principal Secretary of each
Ministry, who is a controlling officer, is responsible for executing the budget. There is no management
accounting techniques used in the execution of such budgets such as analyzing the accounting data availed
to the Treasury and using it to make decisions. However, there is a requirement to submit an expenditure
return at the end of each month which is used for some analysis and forms the basis for release of funds for
the following month. External audit for all governmental institutions which includes PEs is required by
statute. The Ministry of Finance also sends out its internal auditors once a year whenever possible to check
compliance with the prescribed systems of internal control. However, there is no system of following up
implementation of recommendations made both from the external and internal auditors. SOCAM also
provides quality assurance in the private sector and to a small extent in the public sector.
2. Institutional and Implementation arrangements
The lead implementing agency for the project, PC, is located in Blantyre as are most of the other
implementing agencies i.e. ESCOM, MACRA, the EC, MPC and MTL. The financial management
capacity of PC which will manage the Special Account and the overall accounting function of the project
has been assessed. There are currently two people working in the Accounts Department headed by the
Accountant. The Accountant who is professionally qualified and her staff are very competent in their
responsibilities as evidenced by the quality of the reports they produce and lack of substantive points in
previous management letters issued by the auditors. However, this number of staff is inadequate. It has
been agreed to employ one more member of staff who will be involved with replenishments, updating of
books of accounts, processing of transactions and coordinating procurement plans and their
implementation.
The responsibilities of the Commission vis a vis reporting with regard to fnancial management have been
determined and discussed. Under the leadership of the Executive Director of PC, the Accountant would
develop accounting codes within PC's accounting system which will reflect expenditures incurred under the
project from the IDA Credit and from the Government's counterpart contributions in full compliance with
-43 -



International accounting standards and Bank requirements for accounting, auditing and reporting. This
chart of accounts would provide a linkage between the cost elements to outputs as well as monitoring
indicators. The system would provide complete, accurate and timely informnation regarding project
resources provided by the Bank and expenditures arising therefrom. In addition to the Project Steering
Committee which will have representatives of all the above stakeholders to monitor project implementation,
the finance committee of the Board of the Privatization Commission will be responsible for reviewing all
financial management matters of the project on a quarterly basis. Apart from producing quarterly PMRs,
the Accountant will also be responsible for coordinating and facilitating the audit of the project at the end
of every fiscal year and ensuring that it is submitted to the Bank six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Description of such reports will be included in the final version of PIP.
3. Budgetary and Accounting Systems
Guidance for budgeting of Government entities is governed by the Finance and Audit Act Chapter 37:01
which also stipulates accounting and audit requirements. The Act is supplemented by Treasury
Instructions. Supplementary Circulars are issued to change accounting operational procedures from time
to time as demanded. The Treasury Instructions define responsibilities and level of authority within each
Ministry. The same Instructions require that ministries, Government departments and all subvented
organizations which include PEs like the PC submit expenditure returns at the end of each month outlining
expenditures incurred and cash balances. Before the end of each fiscal year, the Accountant of PC reviews
expenditures incurred on each line item to provide guidance on what steps need to be included in the
following years budget. A list of activities projected for the following year are outlined by the Executive
Director with his management team for costing and eventual inclusion in the PC's budget. Estimates for
salaries, projected capital expenditure are made thereafter. A base cost for such activities is derived after
which the figures are adjusted for projected inflation. The Executive Director and the Director of Finance
review the budget before submitting it to the Board for approval. The approved numbers are then given to
the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the National Budget. At the end of every month, accounts are
prepared and a variance analysis report is developed with explanations given for the variations. Once
submitted to the Executive Director and management, decisions are taken for correcting the deviations.
The only deviation that is difficult to correct is the under funding from Government for the PC's operations.
The PC's accounting system currently in use and proposed to be used for accounting for the World Bank
funds to be disbursed for the project, has been reviewed for internal controls and its ability to produce
timely, relevant, reliable and adequate financial reporting. As is the case with all small organizations which
are small, the level of segregation of duties is not elaborate as would happen in a large institution. While all
outstanding invoices are booked in the accounting system at the end of the month, there is no interim record
in which such outstanding invoices are recorded. PC is not able to produce accounting statements and
reports from the current accounting software. A trial balance from the accounting software is exported to a
spreadsheet application which then produces the accounts. The systems do not stipulate the need to seek the
authority of the Finance Director in writing to introduce a new code in the accounting system as will
happen for World Bank project expenditures. Whilst reconciliation are done every month by the
Accounting Department, these are counter checked only in a limited manner. PC does not have an internal
audit function but the assessment was that this may not currently be needed. A Financial Procedures
Manual is in place which will be updated and finalized to take into account the specific requirements of the
project.
4. Agreed Financial Reporting Formats
Owing to preparatory work to integrate reporting formats into the existing software system, the project will
disburse funds through the traditional method for the first twelve months. During this time, the accounting
system will produce a summary of the Statement of Expenditures and an adjoining expenditure detail,
-44 -



statement of withdrawal schedule, a balance sheet if deemed necessary, special account statement and notes
to the accounts. Once an integrated project monitoring system which brings together project financial
management, disbursement, procurement, contract management and output monitoring reports is in place,
the project will start disbursing funds using Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs). Every quarter the PC
will produce: (a) Financial statements showing a summary of sources and uses of funds, uses by project
activity, cash forecast for the next quarter, cash withdrawal and a Special Account statement; (b) Output
monitoring report which shall detail progress and indicators achieved for that quarter; and (c) Procurement
management reports which shall detail procurement management status for consultants, contract
expenditures for the samne and incurred on goods. These reports will be submitted to the World Bank and
the Project Steering Committee forty five days after the end of every quarter for review and act as a basis
for the next quarterly disbursement. The accounts will be prepared on a cash basis and shall follow
International accounting standards. The accounts for the first and subsequent years will be audited and
submitted to the World Bank six months after year end.
5. Audit Arrangements
Audit of companies in Malawi, inclusive of PEs is a statutory requirement required by company law.
Government ministries and departments are audited as required by the Finance and Audit Act. Companies
and almost all PEs are audited by private audit firms. Out of the big five worldwide frms, four are
represented in Malawi. These follow International Standards on Auditing when conducting their audits.
Quality checks are done annually through peer reviews by counter parts from the Republic of South Africa.
Audit of the project will be done by an independent and qualified audit firm who are also the auditors of the
Commission. Subject to annual performance satisfactory to the Bank, a contract for the first two years for
the audit of the project will be concluded between the Privatization Commission and the auditors after the
negotiations of the credit prior to credit effectiveness. Terms of Reference for the annual audit will be
included in the Project Implementation Manual and will ensure that the audit will assess whether: (i) the
information is fairly presented for the specified period and cumulatively for the project with regard to
project accounts and statements of sources and applications of funds; and (ii) reported disbursements were
made in accordance with loan agreements and the Project appraisal document. Further, Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) would also be audited and the auditors will be required to ascertain that individual
expenditures which comprise SOE totals are fully supported by documentation retained in the borrowers
files, properly authorized and eligible under the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and appropriately
accounted for. For Special Accounts (SA), the auditors will be required to verify that the SA statements
are fairly presented and that disbursements from the special account are proper and in accordance with the
DCA. The terms of reference for the auditors will also cover the review of internal controls, whether there
are meaningful linkages between expenditure and monitoring indicators-to assure, inter-alia, the reliability
of the PMRs when in use. Audit reports which shall consist of auditors opinions and management letter
will be submitted within six months following the end of each fiscal year.
-45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reforin Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                            24
First Bank mission (identificatdon)             06/28/98                     06/28/98
Appraisal mission departure                     09/15/98                     05/02/2000
Negotiations                                    11/05/98                     05/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/99                      10/01/2000
Prepared by:
Government of Malawi Project Preparation Task Force:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (Chair)      Privatisation Commission
Malawi Posts Corporation                               MACRA
Electricity Council                                    Malawi Telecom Limited
ESCOM Limited
Preparation assistance:
IDA PPF - Two tranches for a total of US$ 1.25 million
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Gaiv M. Tata                      Team Leader
Edgar Saravia                     Privatization
Lucy Fye                          Privatization
Paul Noumba Um                    Telecommunications
Paivi Koljonen                    Power
Moffat Chitimbe                   Infrastructure Officer
Kumar Ranganathan                 Posts
Donald Mphande                    Financial Management
Elizabeth Otubea Adu              Country Legal Counsel
David Satola                      Telecommunications Legal Counsel
Rogati Kayani                     Procurement
George T. Sikazwe                 Procurement
Robert Roche                      Water Sector
Serigne Omar Fye                  Environmental Assessment
Yash Pal Kedia                    Railways
Gareth Locksley                   Telecommunications
Watipaso Mkandawire               Economist
Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao             Peer Reviewer
Yeshareg Dagne                    Task Team Assistant
Agata E. Pawlowska                Privatization
Irene Chacon                      Program Assistant
-46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Final Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project Information Document
2. Identification Mission Aide-Memoire and Back To Office Report
3. Minutes of the PCD Review Meeting
4. Pre-Appraisal Aide-Memoire and Back To Office Report
5. Preparation Mission Aide Memoire and Back To Office Report
6. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire
7. Procurement Assessment
8. Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
1. Public Enterprises (Privatization) Act No. 7 of 1996
2. Telecommunications and Posts Sector Policy Statement, 1998
3. Communications Act, 1998
4. Electricity Act, 1998
5. Draft Power Sector Policy Statement, July 1999
6. Electricity Bill, 2000
7. Employment Act, 2000
8. Competition and Fair Trading Act No. 43 of 1998
9. Consultancy Services for Assessing and Validating Actions Regarding Year 2000 related problems at
Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
10. Privatization Commission Annual Report 1998
11. Inception Report, Telecommunications Transaction Advisors, 1999
12. Malawi Posts Corporation Business Plan 2000-2003
13. MACRA Approved Budget for FY2000/01
*Including electronic files
-47 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                    IBRD      IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P001664       1997 Malawi                   ENV. MANAGEMENT                                 0.00      12.40      0.00      8.39       1.24      0.00
P001648       1996 Malawi                   FISCAL RESTR&DERE                               0.00    112.20       0.00      0.57      -2.45      3.17
P001658       1991 Malawi                  FISHERIES DEV.                                   0 00       8.80     000       0.64       0.83      0.13
P001657      1994 Malawi                   INSTIT.DEV.II                                    0.00     22.60       0.00      6.40       7.05      0.00
P001636       1992 Malawi                  LOCAL GOVT.                                      0.00     24.00       0.00      5.60       5.07     -0.67
P049599       1999 Malawi                  MASAF II                                         0.00      66.00      0.00     59.96      26.98      0.00
P001667       1995 Malawi                  NAT WATER DEV                                    0.00      79.20      0.00     31.76      2318       0.00
P001646       1991 Malawi                  PHN SECTOR CREDIT                                0.00      55.50      0.00      7.55       9.91      0.00
P036038       1999 Malawi                   POPULATIONIFP PROJEC                            0.00       5.00      0.00      4.38       2.53      0.00
P001662       1992 Malawi                   POWERV                                          0.00      55.00      000       4.77       5.78      5.34
P042305       1996 Malawi                  PRIMARY EDUCATION EM                             0.00      22.50      0.00      0.57       2.39      0.00
P001666       1999 Malawi                   ROAD MAIN. & REHAB                               0.00     30.00      0.00     27.79       4.21      0.00
P001670       1998 Malawi                  SECONDARY ED PROJECT                             0.00      48.20      0.00     42.94      10.53      0.00
P001668       1996 Malawi                   SOCIAL ACTION FUND                              0.00      56.00      0.00      5.52       1.15      0.00
Total:       0.00     597.40        0.00     206.84     98.40      7.97
MALAWI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
1995                     AEF Mal Stkbrkrs                        0.00       0.11       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.11       0.00      0.00
1997                     AEF Maravi                              0.42       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.42       0.00       0.00       0.00
1996                     AEF Mwaiwathu                           0.00       0.81       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.81       0.00       0.00
1998                     AEF Ufulu Garden                        0.29       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.24       0.00       0.00      0.00
1986/90                  LFCM                                    0.00       0.11       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.11       0.00       0.00
2028                     NICO                                    0.00       1.04       0.00       0.00       0.00      1.04       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                0.71       2.07       0.00       0.00      0.66       2.07       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic
1999                    AEF City Lodge                           640.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
1998                    HOFICO                                      0.00         0.00      300.00          0.00
1998                    IDHM                                        0.00         0.00      500.00          0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                640.00         0.00       800.00         0.00
-48 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALAWI: Privatization and Utility Reform Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low.
Malawi    Africa   income        Development diamond'
1998
Prmwlation. mid-veaar Imiltlons                        1ti 5       628     3.515                  Life expectancy
GNP oaer caDita fAtlas Mthod. US$)                      200       4B0        520
G7NP lAtlas method. USS billions)                       2.1       304      1 844
Averace annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponl11tito fi                                           2R         28        17
Labor force f%)                                         2.3        2.6       1,0      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Moast recent estimate flatast vear avallabl.. 1992461                                 capita 1nrnllmenl
Povertv (% of oooulaton below national Dovertlne.)
tirban nonulalinn (% of total oooelatfonl                15         33        31
Life exoectantw at birth (vears)                         43         51        63
Infant mortalitv foer 1.000 live bItl1sl                133        n1         RQ
Child malnitrition f% of ch*dren under 51                30                    ,                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of DoDultflon)                   60         47        74
lllilterarv % oat onulation aae 15+)                     42        4?         32
Gross oixmarv enrollment f% of school-ai ooDulationl     89         77       108                  Malawi
Male                                                   92        84        113                  Low-incorne group
Femal                                                 R8   .    r         1 03
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratlos'
GDP (UJSS bllIons)                             0.S      1.2        2.5       1.7
t9rnss domestie investmentliGlP               24;7     15.7       12 3      13.7                      Trade
Fxnorta of noods and servicsattlADP           30.n     25di       24 3      32.5
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                    20.1     13.3        2.1       0.7
Gross national savinnslGnP                    20 1     133        -0 3       -34
Current account bulance/GDP                      ,;     6.2      -12.6      -17.1
internist navmentsJGflP                        0.9      25         12        1.       Doestc                       Investment
Total dahtlGl)P                               55.7    117.8       88.5     144.9      Savings                      I
Total debt servicelexoorts                    10.2     33.2       15.1      19.3
Prasent valuie of dehbtGnP                      ..                63,f      83.A
Present value of debtlexoorts                   ..        ..    215.1      248.1
Indebtedness
1977-87  198S-98     1997       1998   1999-03
faveraa annual arowhl
GDP                                   2.2      S.7      5.1        31        5.9             Malawi       Low-income group
GNP nAr canita                      -0 9       0.9      2.5        0)4       3a al 
Exoorls of ooods anda sevices        3.7       4.7     12.9        1.5       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
f% of GOPI
AnriclitLire                                  41 R     49.0       38.3      381.3     20
Industrv                                      18.7     24.9       17.5      19.0     10
ManiLJfactilrnn                             11.7      18.8      13.6       14.8   u  >      0 9
Services                                      39.6     26.1       46.1      42.7  -20             i               \
-20
Private consumotion                          86.4      67.2       85.3      85.0    -30
Genreral novemment consurmntion               13.5     19.5       12.7      14.3                    GDI          GDP
Imoorts of noods and services                 34.6     28.3       34.5      45.6
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(ave(aae annual orowth)
Aaricitltire                                   n.8      6.8        3.9       2.7    50.1
Industrv                                       1.5      2.2        1.1       5.3
Mantifacturinn                               2.8       1.7       0.6        5.7    25s      
Services                                       3.3      1.0        8.7       0.5      oes
Private consumotinn                            0.7      7.1        4.9       6.8                               96  . 97   so
General novemment consumntion                  8i.9    -4 0        1 8       -9.5
Gross domestic investment                     -8.6     -7.3        7.1     -27.0    20
Imnorts of anods and services                 -3.8      3.7       11.9      -2 1                   Exports   OImports
Gross national oroduct                         2.2      3.8        5.1       3.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin boldl comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incomnlete.
-49 -



Malawi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation(%)
Domestic prices                                                                     100
(X change)                                                                             . .
Consumer prices                                        25.2        9.1     22.1                         2 
Implicit GDP deflator                         13.4     14.8       13.4     22.8      so
Government finance                                                                   25
(1 of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                               10.1     22.8       16.1     22.5              93   94   95   9s   97    9
Current budget balance                        -1.8     -2.2       -5.1     -3.8                   GDP deflator  -   0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       -8.4    -10.7      -12.3     -6.3
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and Imrport levels (US miltlions)
Total exports (fob)                                    278        567       509     goo
Tobacco                                               173        331      270
Tea                                                    28         69       63
Manufactures                                                                             *_
Total Imports (cif)                                    291        73'       677     30000
Food                                          ..        2         33       29
Fuel and energy                                        40         79       71
Capital goods                                          82       340       285       o
92   93   54   95  9r   97   95
Fxnnr1 nrimeindrex 1995=1001                     .      92        113        99
moort onrice index (1995=100)                           78         93        84              * Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade 1995=100)                                120       121       11R
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(usI maIntions)                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 213      301        615       549       o
Imports of goods and services                 300      324        872       769          *fl
Resource balance                               -87      -23      -258      -220
Net income                                              -57       -41       -49    -10
Net current transfers                                             -19  -20   1 .11111
Current account balance                                 -60      -318      -289
-20
Financing items (net)                                    86       265       400
Changes in net reserves                       -51       -26        53      -111      26
Memo:
Reserves Includino oold (USS millions)         89       92        310       258
ronvrrsinn rate (DEC. locaWiSSI                0.9      2.2       16.4      31.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS rmillions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          449    1,367       2.229    2,446
IBRD                                          3      104         34        26                   F: 20 G:27 A:26
IDA                                          84      509      1.375     1,542             E:249
Total debtservice                              22       101        95       111
IBRD                                          0       14          8        13
IDA                                           1        5         18        21         D:501
Composition of net resource flows                                                            0
Official grants                                                  83       157
Official creditors                           52       83        131       122                                     8 1,542
Private creditors                            31       -11        -1        -1           C:81
Foreign direct investment                     6        0         25        35
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0
World Bank program                                                                   A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Commitments                                   0        0          0         0      B - IDA   D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Disbursements                                13       55        107       130      C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Principal repayments                          0        8         15        21
Net flows                                    13       47         92       110
Interest payments                             1       12         11        13
Net transfers                                13       35         81        96
Development Economics
- 50 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
MALAWI PRIVATIZATION AND UTIULfTY REFORM PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
The environmental action plan consists of two key areas of intervention: undertaking Environmental
Assessments/Audits (EA) for all key PEs to be privatized under the project; and undertaking a capacity
building plan for strengthening environmental management in the teleconmuncations sector.
Table 1: List of PEs in which Environmental Audits would be conducted
Entities                 i      Environmental Audits/Assessments
Identfifed transactions
1. Commercial Bank - Strategic Investor
2. Air Malawi                                                 Required
3. Malawi Telecom Limited                                Required (completed)
4. Malawi Rural Finance Corporation
5. ESCOM Distribution                                         Required
6. ESCOM Generation                                           Required
7. Blantyre Water Board                                       Required
8. Lilongwe Water Board                                       Required
9. Tourism Development and Investment                         Required
Corporation
10. Malawi Housing Corporation                                Required
11. Malawi Savings Bank
12. ADMARC - Partial Privatization                            Required
Unscheduled Transacfions
1. National Bank - strategic investor       ___                         _
2. David Whitehead and Sons                                   Required
3. Shire Bus Line                                             Required
4. Airports                                                   Required
5. Indebank/Eund
Other
I1. Malawi Posts Corporation                              Required
2.    Environnental Management Acion Plan for Malawi Telecom Limited (MTL). The
Environmental Audit has recommended the following action plan which is under discussion and would be
finalized and implemented shortly.
(a)    Training and Capacity Building: 'Training of trainers' program would be developed and
provided to the senior management of MTL on environmental management and good practices. The
Environmental Affairs Department (EAD) would participate in providing training for the senior
management of all the PEs. The assignment should comprise of "train the trainers" sessions for senior
officials in the short-term, and in turn provide long-term training to the staff of the enterprise. The training
would form the basis for capacity building within MTL.
(b)    EAD would determine and prepare guidelines and environmentalperformance indicators which
are measurable for monitoring the sites and facilities of MTL. The performance indicators would serve as
-51 -



the instrument for responding to any potential environmental hazard that may occur as a result of activities
at MTL, either currently or in the future. Also, EAD would set up a monitoring and accountability protocol
that would require liaising with the enterprise in meeting the environmental management challenges facing
the enterprise.
(c)    MTL would have on its premise personnel, preferably a Senior Official, who would be responsible
for Environmental Management activities. Such a person will liaise with EAD and be abreast of
environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the activities of the enterprise, participate in training and
be part of the capacity building for environmental management. Furthermore, the senior official must
support the development of contingency plans that link city/urban contingency plans with that of the PE.
Also, the plan or system can address incidents, such as, fire and emergency drills, accidents, security, and
other basic activities of the enterprise pertaining to worker health and safety.
(d)    Disposal of Materials: Some MTL facilities will require the removal of instruments, equipment,
and materials, especially at the Earth Station and for decommissioning of obsolete cross-bar exchanges. A
plan would be drawn up to complete the process of getting rid of the unwanted equipment and materials as
soon as possible.
(e)    Legal Framework on Liabilities: During the appraisal mission, it was agreed that It was agreed
that the Government would be responsible for contingent liabilities arising out of existing environmental
damnage and that a plan for the disposal of obsolete cross-bar exchanges which had been decommissioned
would be prepared prior to the issuance of the Information Memorandum for the sale of MTL. Future
disposal of several similar exchanges which are currently still in use would be the responsibility of the
strategic investor.
(f)    HIV/AIDSAwareness Programs: MTE  would increase the awareness building and prevention of
EHV/AIDS, as part of the environmental management activities needed at the enterprise. MTL would work
in close partnership with the Ministries of Health and Labor relations, as well as, the urban and rural
health clinics and hospitals and the non-governmental organizations (NGOs) currently in the field and on
the ground.
- 52 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 2937A
32           To Dor Es Soloom                                 I
>                             5 SongSwngw
0"  X              > bOnMALAWI
_ ,                                      |, Ch       i sesg' 
Thismapsasprodued    NO pd-                                                        ADMINISTRATIVE
oftheWorldBon. ii;    \ s >hurrbr |DIVISIONS
The boundaries, colors,
deohom=niods ---  ony -                                                            REGIONS AND  DISTRICTS
on this  0p3  dor  t
imply, on the port of                 I RUMPHI
The World Bo-k Group,                               .
soy jodg,eso o- the legal
stotu- of ony territory,     02 -  Kotoswo
or ony endorsement                    - '._ Run,  '                                   -.PRINCIPAL ROADS
or occeptonce of such                                                                           P           R
boundaries.                   ,2R I                                                P -  t       RIVERS
o;>   Wdes,X   XLake                a     TOWNS
*9    DISTRICT CAPITALS
1                               st\  N   gnrtj7                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
j  Meimb      I                     /                     -      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-23 LOldeoo7 bt S'2                                             ':REGION BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                              .           ,                 ( Ukana                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
l .-,..7                              A.''. :
JVRQVWP ,   .   a*;.)  KILOMETERS  0   20   40   60   80   100
-       '                  <          = \ \/ MILES 0  20     40       60
,;I ; NJI9W 
To Lusoko     "     sMhinji                       &       .             $ers         o
LIl NGWE                             bo.
_ ,, O \/>, ,~~~.  h  <tLILONGWx j4S: \\1 
T oN.colo
MQZAMEAQUE                                            (                 tLiwuosnd          /
ZOMBA               Chidoa
ANGOLA   '~n                                                                                                              To,< W     \t Sn        Beiro
*M ZAMBIA  go8                                                                                   e
m~~IMBABWE  ) +/0 \ nmo
H  BOTSWANA'                    .        ,/\\ n
.D.EM, . SARICA                                         T. T :. A, 
OFONO        TNjNmhk-
L. T-g-yi                         \C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fkury19



