Report No. PID7404
Project Name                     Malawi-Privatization and Utility (@)
Reform Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Privatization; Telecommunications &
Informatics
Project ID                       MWPE63095
Borrower(s)                      Implementing Agency
Address PRIVATISATION COMMISSION
CDL House, 5 Independence Drive,
PO Box 937, Blantyre, Malawi
Contact Person: Mr. Dye Mawindo,
Executive Director
Tel: (265) 623.655
Fax: (265) 621.248
Email: privatisation@malawi.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 8 - 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The deterioration of Malawi's infrastructure and the resulting low and
unreliable service coverage has been identified as one of the principal
constraints to private sector development (PSD) in a survey of the private
sector conducted for the 1997 World Development Report. Since 1997, the
Government of Malawi (GOM) began the process of reforms in key
infrastructure sectors as discussed below.(a) Privatization program. The
Public Enterprises (Privatisation) Act of April 1996 and the Divestiture
Sequence Plan (DSP) consisting of a list of 100 PEs approved by the
Cabinet Committee on the Economy in August 1997 provide the basis for the
establishment of the Privatisation Commission and the authority to
privatize a particular enterprise respectively. Implementation of the
reform agenda has been an ongoing process, and as of December 1999, 35 out
of 100 PEs on the DSP were privatized.(b) Telecommunications and postal
sectors. The Communications Sector Policy statement of August 1998 and
the Communications Act of November 1998 provide the basis for the reform
agenda with the goals to increase the number of working lines to not less
than 150,000 by the end of 2003, improving service quality and reducing
prices. Implementation of the reform agenda has commenced - transaction
advisors for the sale of Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL) have been
appointed in October 1999; activities supporting the separation of MTL and
the Malawi Posts Corporation (MPC) are well underway; the Malawi
Communications Regulatory Authority (MACRA) has been established; and
separate Boards and management for MTL and MPC have been appointed. A
Business Plan for MPC has been prepared. Based on this plan, MACRA
approved a rate increase effective April 1, 2000. Further, based on the
business plan, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planing (MOF) will
allocate in its FY2001 budget a provision of subsidy for postal
services.(c) Power sector reform.    Implementation of the reform agenda



has commenced with: (i) the establishment of the Electricity Council (EC)
in January 1999; (ii) the incorporation of ESCOM in July 1998 into a
limited liability company wholly owned, for the time being, by the
Government; (iii) the transfer of all assets, liabilities, property and
staff of the old ESCOM to the new ESCOM Limited; and (iv) commencement of
a commercialization program for ESCOM. In addition, a task force was
appointed to oversee the commercialization program as well as formulate a
power sector policy statement. This has since resulted in the draft Power
Sector Policy Statement of July, 1999, which is still awaiting cabinet
approval, and the draft revised Electricity Bill, 2000, which had been
published for consideration by Parliament. The key elements of the sector
policy statement were the separation of ESCOM into generation,
transmission and distribution units and commencement of privatization of
distribution immediately with subsequent privatization of generation. (d)
Water sector reform. In 1994, the government defined its sector strategy
in the National Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies. Urban
water boards have expanded facilities, extended service coverage and have
introduced some measures to improve efficiency but their financial
condition has deteriorated in recent years despite tariff increases. The
involvement of the private sector is considered essential in order to
establish autonomy and appropriate incentive structures and a study of
Private Sector Participation (PSP) options will commence shortly to
identify options for involving the private sector in provision of water
supply service in the two primary urban centers in Malawi - Blantyre and
Lilongwe.
2. Objectives
The project's objective is to improve quality of and access to economic
and physical infrastructure for private sector development.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The privatization and utility reform programs have both been a significant
part of the government's structural adjustment program which the Bank has
supported through the First and Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Projects. The Bank has also been previously involved in
supporting GOM's privatization program through an IDF grant. The key issue
has been that in the past there has been a limited requirement for
financing technical assistance. However, with the larger transactions and
the larger fees for utility privatization and the Technical Assistance
requirements for new regulatory institutions, the government decided to
consolidate these requirements under the proposed project.
4. Description
The project would consist of four components:(a) Privatization component.
This component would support the development of divestiture options and/or
the implementation of the chosen divestiture methods for utility
divestitures including: MTL, electricity distribution and transmission,
and water. Initial funding for the MTL transaction advisors has been
provided through PPF. In addition, the component would fund consultancy
services associated with at least seven identified non-utility
divestitures included in the DSP. (b) Support to regulatory institutions.
This component would enhance the operations of the Malawi Communications
Regulatory Authority for postal and telecommunications regulation and the
Electricity Council for power regulation. Further, this component would
also assist the government in evaluating the benefits of and, if
-2 -



appropriate, in the establishment of a multi-sectoral regulatory agency.
Financing for the telecommunications regulatory agency (MACRA) is already
being provided by DANIDA under parallel financing.(c) Postal sector
support. This component would support the three year business plan of MPC
in order to help the postal service progress towards full cost recovery
after its separation from MTL. The support provided would be through
funding of consultancy for management support and training (possibly
through a twinning arrangement with another postal administration), postal
and office equipment, and vehicles. The government would provide a
subvention over the project period to meet the interim financing gap
arising from tariffs not increasing sufficiently to meet operating costs
of MPC.(d) Pre-privatization Assistance. This component would support
restructuring activities: (a) in ESCOM - including the conducting of a
tariff study, establishing a financial management system and separating
the financial statements of the Strategic Business Units and the purchase
of high voltage metering equipment; and (b) in MTL - ensuring that Year
2000 compliance is achieved. The latter activity was financed through the
Project Preparation Facility and has been completed.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 3.3
IDA 28.9
Total Project Cost 32.2
6. Implementation
The Privatisation Commission would act as the unit coordinating project
implementation and would be responsible for accounting and disbursement
for all components. With regard to procurement, the privatization
component would be implemented by PC; the regulatory reform component
would be implemented by EC and MACRA; postal sector support component
would be implemented by MPC and the pre-privatization assistance the
component by MTL and ESCOM.
7. Sustainability
This project provides technical assistance for a well defined, timebound
process of enterprise divestiture under the privatization component and
pre-privatization assistance to get PEs to the point of divestiture under
the pre-privatization assistance component. Once the transactions are
completed, there should be no need for continuing assistance in this
regard. Similarly, the postal sector support component has been designed
so that IDA funding is utilized for financing upfront investment and
start-up management support for the new MPC. Subsidy requirements for the
first two years are to be met from the government budget and thereafter
increased tariffs, volume of business and cost efficiencies should lead to
break-even operation. Finally, under the regulatory component, initial
support is being provided for strengthening regulatory functions in recent
reformed sectors. The key sustainability issue relates to ensuring that
sufficient skills are developed in regulation and sufficient financing is
available for the new created regulatory agencies.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There have been no prior IDA privatization projects in Malawi. Limited
assistance has been provided through an IDF grant in support of
privatization. Implementation of this grant indicates the following.
-3 -



First, that there has been local ownership of the privatization process.
With capacity built in the Privatisation Commission, the GOM has some
capacity required to initiate and follow-up on future work in
privatization. International and regional experience on privatization and
sector reform indicate the following "best practice" features: Government
commitment to and leadership of the privatization and sector reform
programs are essential to success; strong privatization agency;
availability of resources to address the social cost of reform by funding
severance packages for redundant employees from privatization proceeds;
and consistent approach across sector reform and privatization processes.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  No major environmental impact is envisaged. The
privatization process will involve some PEs that might be the source of
pollution or other environmental problems related to on-going and future
practices (e.g. PEs operating in power generation).     The approach adopted
has been to agree on a specific set of guidelines for conducting EA but to
defer conducting the EAs closer to when the privatization transaction
would occur. The government with funding from IDA PPF hired a private
consultant to carry out an environmental audit of MTL, which is in the
process of being privatized. The report evaluated the existing
environmental problems resulting from activities while under public sector
ownership and developed an Audit Action Plan which will assist MTL to take
necessary and appropriate measures to clean up existing environmental
damage, protect and manage the environment in a manner consistent with the
requirements of the Environmental Management Act, 1996 and the World
Bank's safeguard policies in particular OP/BP/GP 4.01. In accordance
with the safeguard policies, a pre-screening of privatization candidates
to be funded under the project was undertaken and the list of
privatization candidates for which environmental audits and/or assessments
would be undertaken was agreed. When such audits/assessments are
undertaken prior to transactions, they will be reviewed and cleared by the
Bank.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Gaiv M. Tata
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)473-2175
Fax:   (202)614-0798
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 18, 2000.
- 5 -



