Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3395-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Utility Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3395-MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Malawi 
Posts Corporation (MPC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the 
credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement available to MPC, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
Page  2
herewith between the Association and MPC (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means,  collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“DSP” means the Borrower’s Divestiture Sequence Plan of 
August 1997;
(b)
“ESCOM” means the Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi 
Limited, incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act;
(c)
“MPC” means the Malawi Posts Corporation, a body corporate 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Communications Act, 
1998;
(d)
“MTL” means Malawi Telecommunications Limited, a company 
established under the Borrower’s Companies Act, pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Communications Act, 1998;
(e)
“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Public 
Works;
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Page  3
Planning;
(g)
“MACRA” means the Malawi Communications Regulatory 
Authority, established and operating pursuant to the Communications Act, 
1998;
(h)
“EC’ means the Electricity Council, established and 
operating pursuant to the Electricity Act, 1998;
(i)
“MPC Business Plan” means the three-year business plan to be 
adopted by MPC and updated annually;
(j)
“Point of Sale” means that the Borrower has taken the 
following steps; (i) invited firms to submit proposals; (ii) announced 
the results of the proposals submitted by bidders; and (iii) selected the 
winning bid;
(k)
“Privatization Commission” means the Borrower’s commission 
established and operating pursuant to the Public Enterprises 
(Privatization) Act, 1996;
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and MPC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreements signed on behalf of the Association on April 12, 1999, and 
November 29, 1999, respectively and on behalf of the Borrower on May 6, 
1999, and December 9, 1999, respectively; 
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Manual referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, 
work plans, training plans and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
the implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to 
time, in consultation with the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Manual;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(q)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and MPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
21,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
Page  4
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association , including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 
15, 2010 and ending April 15 , 2040. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on April 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
Page  5
percent (2%) of such principal amount
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project with 
due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, 
privatization practices, and with due regard to sound environmental 
practices 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and 
other resources 
required for the Project; 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause MPC 
to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of  MPC therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and 
Page  6
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
MPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for Part 
C of the Project available to MPC under a subsidiary grant agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and MPC, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, 
provide to MPC a subvention in accordance with the MPC Business Plan up 
to a maximum amount equivalent to $3,000,000.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04 For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out a study to 
determine whether or not to proceed with the creation of a multi-sectoral 
regulatory body; and (b) shall by December 31, 2001, furnish to the 
Association its decision.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
Page  8
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Borrower’s Public Enterprises (Privatization) Act, 1996 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Privatization Commission to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
Page  9
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section  11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANCE
44407 MI
(265) 
789 173
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Tony Kandiero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
Page  10
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
100% 
training and audit
(a) Under Part A
   10,050,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
    1,730,000
of the Project
(c) Under Part C
    1,200,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D
      770,000
of the Project
(2)
Vehicles and
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) Under Part A
      70,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
   2,065,000
of the Project
(c) Under Part C
   3,460,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D
     265,000
of the Project
(3)
Operating costs 
     200,000
Under Part A
of the Project
(4)
Refunding of
   1,000,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
     990,000
TOTAL
  21,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
Page  11
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicles and equipment operation and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (a) 
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 
2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) goods and services of consultant firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (c) 
training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of access 
to economic and physical infrastructure for private sector development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization
1.
Telecommunications - Development of privatization options for 
Malawi Telecommunications Limited and bringing it to the Point of Sale, 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Electricity - Divestiture of the generation and distribution 
businesses of ESCOM, through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
3.
Urban Water Supply - Divestiture of the Lilongwe and Blantyre Water 
Boards based on private sector participation options developed by the 
Borrower.
4.
Support for the Borrower’s Divestiture Sequence Plan through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and vehicles.
Part B:
Regulatory Institutions
1.
Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority - Strengthening the 
capacity of MACRA through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training and the acquisition of spectrum frequency monitoring equipment.
2.
Electricity Council - Strengthening the capacity of the EC in 
economic regulation through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training for EC staff, and the acquisition of safety and standard 
monitoring equipment and vehicles.
3.
Railways Regulation – Establishment of a work program and support 
for the railways regulator in MOT.
4.
Cross-sectoral regulatory issues - Establishment of a policy 
framework and institutional arrangements for cross-sectoral regulatory 
Page  12
issues, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training.
Part C:
Postal Sector
Supporting the Malawi Posts Corporation in the area of financial 
sustainability and in carrying out investment and institutional 
improvements, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training and the acquisition of postal and information technology 
equipment and vehicles.
Part D:
Pre-Privatization Assistance
1.
Year 2000 compliance assistance for MTL through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
2.
Carrying out of a tariff rebalancing study, preparation of separate 
accounts for strategic business units in ESCOM, and the acquisition of 
high voltage metering equipment to separate the billing of generation, 
transmission and distribution.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications 
set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Page  13
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National and International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment and costing $250,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
Page  14
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines): and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training under the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
Page  15
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual and shall not amend it or waive any 
provision thereof, which, in the opinion of the Association will 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project a Project Steering Committee, chaired by a representative of the 
MOF, with representation from the Privatization Commission, EC, MACRA, 
MTL, MPC and ESCOM, as well as, the relevant sector ministry as needed.
3.
The Privatization Commission shall coordinate the overall 
implementation of the Project, and shall be responsible for the 
accounting and disbursement of funds, for all components of the Project, 
the preparation of consolidated progress reports, Project Management 
Reports after June 30, 2001, and arranging for the auditing of the 
Project accounts in accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
Page  16
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2002, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
5.
The Borrower shall take adequate steps, satisfactory to the 
Association, to bring to the Point of Sale, in accordance with the 
schedule and modalities specified in the Project Implementation Manual, 
twelve public enterprises for which technical advisory services are to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,600,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
Page  17
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the  Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to  the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
Page  18
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Indicator
Start of Project
End of 
Project
October 1, 2000
December 31, 2004
Working telephone lines
40,000
150,000
Percentage of population with 
access to grid-based electricity
4%
6%
Decision on the establishment of 
a multi-sectoral regulator
NA
By December 31, 2001
Mail posted from one city for 
delivery in another city is 
delivered by the third day of posting
65%
80%
Letters per staff per year
45,610
62,903
Page  19
