        Malawi PrivatizationandUtilitiesReformProject- (CreditNo. 33950-MW)
                  -
                  ProposedAmendmentto the DevelopmentCreditAgreement


 1.      The Governmento fMalawihasrequestedthat the Development Credit Agreement
 (DCA) for the Privatization and Utilities Reform Project be amended. This memorandum sets
 out thejustification for the proposed amendment, and seeks the ExecutiveDirectors' approval.


                                            I.Background

 2.     The Malawi Privatization and Utilities Reform Project ( P W ) was approved by the
Board on June 27, 2000, for US$28.9 million equivalent, with a closing date o f December 31,
2004. The closing date has since been extended to December 31, 2005 after it became apparent
that the original four years would not be enough to complete the project activities. The project's
development objective is to improve quality o f and access to economic and physical
infrastructurefor private sector development.

3.      The objective o f thls restructuring i s to address the underlying causes of current slow
implementation progress, respond to new challenges facing the Government o f Malawi (GoM) in
parastatal reform, incorporate lessons learned and improve the effectiveness o f the program. By
December 31, 2004, the project's original closing date, only 40 percent o f the credit had
disbursed with marginal progress registered on the core program o f preparing utilities in
infrastructure sectors for privatization. Below a brief diagnostic o f why the project has been
disbursing slowly and an outline of the measures proposed to accelerate implementation. The
Association admits that, had its supervision role been more effective, these issues would have
been detected and resolved at the mid-termreview or sooner.

                             11. ProjectImplementationExperience

4.      First, at the start of the project, political support for privatization was uncertain. Within
six months o f the project becoming effective, the government o f former President Muluzi
suspended all privatization activities for six months, while it conducted a review o f the prograni.
Following the 2004 General Elections, the government o f President Mutharika again suspended
the privatization program in July 2004 "while new government officials familiarized themselves
with the legal and institutional framework for privatization". This second review also took four
months and was completed inNovember 2004. While the two reviews did not necessarily mean a
withdrawal o f political support for the program, more than 12 months o f implementation time
was lost between the two reviews, including the time it took to rebuild momentum after each
suspension was lifted. Ifpolitical support for privatization was present at the start o f the project,
this was not made publicly evident. As a result, at subordinate levels o f government and within
the public enterprises themselves, momentum for the reforms was slow to pick up. GoM has
since demonstrated the necessary political commitment to the refonns when the Cabinet
approved the privatization o f Malawi Telecom Limited (MTL), one o f the largest and politically
sensitive privatization transactions in the country. Subsequently, the President galvanized
political support for privatization when he gave strong and public endorsement o f the program at
a meetingwhich was attended by 17o f the I 9 senior Cabinet Ministers. The necessary high level

                                                     2


 political support appears to be in place but this alone is not sufficient for the privatization
 program to succeed.

 5.       Second, the time and effort needed to prepare and execute significant privatization
 transactions was underestimated from the outset. The key privatization activities are in the
 utility infrastructure sectors where services have historically been provided by state-owned
 monopolies with prices controlledby the government. The new paradigm shift requires structural
 and regulatory reforms to precede the actual privatization transactions themselves. Progress has
 been made with the relatively easier o f these sectors (telecommunications), whereas preparatory
 activities are in progress in the water and electricity sectors (traditionally more complex and
 highly controversial to privatize). The time required to accomplish necessary pre-privatization
 reforms in these utility sectors far exceeds the original four years o f project life, The pre-
 privatization activities for most o f the public enterprises to be reformed/privatized are
 summarized in Annex I.In the electricity sector, it will take at least another year o f preparatory
 activities before the utility i s ready for any form o fprivate sector participationand even longer in
 thewater sector.

 6       Third, the level of public awareness and support required for the success o f the program
was also underestimated from the beginning. When the program started, Privatization
Commissioners traveled around the country and met with district officials and other
stakeholders. It was assumed that this would be enough to build public awareness and political
support for the program. The Privatization Commission (PC) did not develop, design or
institutionalize a sustained Public Awareness Campaign (PAC) nor was any form o f information
dissemination conducted. The only activity that could be identified as communication was the
periodic press briefings. Over time, the levels of resistance to the program increased as people
took the view that there was no consultation taking place between the PC and its stakeholders -
leading to slower implementation. Recognizing the need for a sustained and robust PAC, GoM
has designed a communications strategy and PAC. The project will support implementation o f
the PAC and communications strategy by funding media (television, radio and press) programs
targeted at specific stakeholder groups such as members o f Parliament, trade unions, employees
o f state owned enterprises and civil society.

7,       Fourth, experience from implementing the project so far suggests that improvements in
the project's governance mechanisms are requiredto help accelerate implementation. The project
coordinating unit (PCU) currently reports to the Executive Director o f the project implementing
unit (PIU), the PC. Put bluntly, the PC is coordinating itselfwith little or no GoM engagement.
This largely explains the distance between the PC and GoM which has contributed to delays in
GoM granting approvals for some privatizationtransactions. To deal with this, it has been agreed
that the project coordinating function should report to the Chairman o f the Project Steering
Committee (PSC). The PSC will be reconstituted to strengthen itself by including senior
representatives o f Ministries with a stake in the privatization program. Political oversight o f the
privatization program will remain in the President's Office but technical oversight has been
delegated to the Ministryo f Finance.

8.       Fifih,theproject experienced significant procurement delays duringthe first two andhalf
years o f its operations, mainly as a result of lack o f experienced procurement staff. For a period
o f two years the PCUwas mannedby one individual. This was compounded by the fact that staff
inbeneficiaryagencieswas not conversant with World Bankprocurement procedures. Inthe last

                                                   3


 six months, however, the PCU has been fully staffed and now has two procurement officers and
 two financial management specialists. In addition, it has been agreed that a monitoring and
 evaluation specialist will be recruited or an existing staff reassigned to pay increased attention to
 this aspectofproject implementation.

 9.      The responsibility to reform andprepare public enterprises for privatizationrests with the
 Public Enterprises Reform and Monitoring Unit (PERMU) within the Ministry o f Finance.
 Unfortunately, P E W does not have adequate human or financial capacity to execute its
 mandate. As a result, candidates for privatization are often in very poor state thereby slowing
 and complicating the privatizationtransaction. It is, therefore, essential to address the inadequate
 GoM's capacity for preparing and monitoring public enterprises, in particular those enterprises
 that have been privatized, to ensure that the new private owners comply with the terms o f their
 sale agreements. Inaddition, as privatization takes hold, there will be a correspondingly greater
 need for the privatized entities and other firms to conform to better standards o f corporate
 governance and to protect the interests o f shareholders. For enterprises privatized through
concessions or leasing, PERMU will conduct audits o f corporate governance structures whereas
 for fully privatized entities there will be a ROSC review. Therefore, PERMU'Sresponsibilities
will be part o f the larger task of enhancing economic growth, improving corporate govemance
and overall competitiveness o f the economy. The stronger PERMU would assist the PC by
holding managers and board members o f public enterprises accountable to the privatization
process.


                                     111.ProposedAmendments

 10.     The restructured project focuses on pre-privatization preparatory activities and
strengthening o f the regulatory frameworks for entities already privatized and those earmarked
for future privatization. It retains the core o f the original privatization program which i s
necessary to meet the project's development objective satisfactorily. Indeciding which activities
to retain in the restructured project, the team sought to keep the core program and also to carry
only those activities which are underpinned by a policy consensus between the Association and
GoM, and which would be capable o f successful execution within the project's proposed
extended closing date o f December 31,2007 and whose impact on the business climate and fiscal
deficit would be greatest.

11.      The core activities in the project are to prepare for privatization and then privatize parts
of the Electricity Supply Commission o f Malawi (ESCOM), Malawi Telecommunications
Limited (MTL) and Lilongwe and Blantyre Water Boards and to establish the necessary
regulatory capacity in those sectors. Successful privatization o f these utilities would have a
significant positive impact on the fiscal deficit and the climate for private business in Malawi.
The Malawi Economic Growth Strategy (MEGS) recognizes that a sound utility infrastructure
platform i s necessary to support rapid private sector-led growth. That requires the state to
withdraw from these sectors and from other commercial activities and allow the private sector to
expand. With respect to Air Malawi and the Water Boards, all activities have been dropped
except for ongoing contracts which were signed before the restructuring. Activities to restructure
the Water Boards will bepicked upby a new water project which is currently under preparation.
The restructured P W will have a primary focus on improving utility infrastructure and its
regulation, inline with GoM's emphasis on infrastructure development for growth.

                                                    4



 12.    The revised Project Development Objective (PDO) is to enhance the climate for private
 investment by reducing the state's direct participation inthe business sector. The revisedPDO i s
well aligned to the current Malawi Country Assistance Strategy Outcome I11- improved business
 climate.

        Activities in Project before Restructuring, Dropped and Retained

 13.    Annex I1shows activities in the project before the proposed restructuring, the activities
dropped and those retained. The dropped activities are: (i)      Rehabilitation o f Tedzani Iand I1
hydroelectric power plants, (ii)  Malawi Rural Finance Corporation, (iii) o f the support to
                                                                              part
Malawi Postal Corporation (corporate branding, market research and philately), (iv) Air Malawi
 (except for the Commercial Adviser whose contract ends in December 2005), (v) Competition
 and Appeals Tribunal (vi) Department o f Energy, (vii) Malawi Housing Corporation, (viii)
Malawi Development Corporation, (ix) Kamuzu and Chileka Airports, (x) Shire Bus Lines; and
(xi) Environmental Impact Assessments.            The activities which have been added are: (i)
ADMARC restructuring; and (ii)Privatization Impact Study. The result o f the proposed
restructuring i s a much streamlined project, focusing on fewer public enterprises which have the
largest potential impact on the level o f state-subsidies and the business climate.


                        IV. Costs, Benefitsand Risksafter Amendments

To rationalizethe structure o fthe project, it is proposed that the restructuredproject will have the
following components:

        Pre-privatization Assistance

14.     This component will continue to support the restructuring o f ESCOM, which involves
dividing ESCOM into three autonomous Strategic Business Units (SBUs) - generation,
transmission and distribution in readiness for concessioning. The component will also support
the acquisition by Blantyre and Lilongwe Water Boards o f new meteringequipment to improve
their billing systems. The restructuring of the Water Boards to commercialize their operations
and introduce leasing arrangements inthe future will be supported under the proposed new water
sector project. The other beneficiary under this component i s Malawi Savings Bank, which i s
beingprepared for privatization.

        Commercialization

15.    This component will support the restructuring o f ADMARC to separate its commercial
operations from its social activities into two separate vehicles through fbnding o f consultants,
The restructuring of ADMARC will include preparation o f a restructuring plan, and human
resources audit and retrenchment plan. Malawi Posts Corporation will continue to be supported
inits efforts towards full cost recovery and introduce a sound corporate governance framework.
The support provided i s through funding o f consultancy for management support and training,
postal and office equipment, and vehicles.

       Supportfor Regulatory Frameworks

                                                  5



  16.     This component will continue to support the creation and strengthening of sound
 regulatory frameworks and buildingregulatory capacity for the telecommunications, energy and
 transport sectors. Under the project, GoM hired a consultant to evaluate the benefits and
 disadvantages o f establishing multi-sector regulators (MSRs). The evaluation has been
 completed and GoM has adopted its recommendations in favor o f MSRs which yield scale
 economies in a small country like Malawi. GoM i s proceeding with establishment o f MSRs in
 the communications, energy and transport sectors. The component will therefore support the
 establishment o f these MSRs.

         Privatization

 17.     This component will continue to support the MTL privatization, which is expected to be
 concluded by August 2005. It will support the development o f divestiture options and
 implementation o f chosen methods for utility divestitures including electricity transmission and
 distribution for ESCOM, and a strengthened public awareness and stakeholder outreach
 campaign. In addition, the component will f b d consultancy services for a few non-utility
 divestitures.

         Post-Privatization Monitoring

 18.     This component takes on board the lessons learnt from implementingthe project over the
 last four years and from successful privatization programs elsewhere. It will support P E W
 through building its capacity to carry out its mandate o f pre and post privatization monitoring.
 The support will include provision o ftechnical assistance, training and equipment, and financing
 a post privatization impact study.

         Implementation and Capacity Building

 19,     Beneficiary agencies will continue to play an active role inproject implementation. This
 component will fund salaries and equipment for the PIU and the PCU. The project will continue
to finance a team o f high caliber local professionals including the Project Coordinator,
procurement, financial management and M&E specialists, operating and training costs for the
project staff and other stakeholders inthe project.


RevisedImplementationArrangements

20.     The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be reconstituted and strengthened by
including senior representatives o f ministries that have a stake in the privatization program.
Political oversight o f the privatization program will remain in the President's Office but
technical oversight has been delegated to the Ministry o f Finance. The Minister o f Finance has
accordingly designated the Permanent Secretary in his Ministryto chair the FSC. The PSC will
provide overall guidance and ensure coordination and good working relations between the
different agencies involved in the project. Under the proposed restructured project, the Project
Coordinator will report to the Chairman o f the PSC and not to the head o f the PC, as at present.
These arrangements will improve the flow o f information between the Ministry o f Finance and
the PCU, and contribute to smoother implementation o f the project.

                                                 6



 FinancialManagementand Disbursement

 21.    Annexes I11 and IV show the revised Project Costs and the revised Schedule I,
 respectively, No other changes have been introduced in the disbursement or financial
 management arrangements for the project. Financial management capacity in the PCU has
 recently been strengthened by the addition o f an assistant project accountant, to support the
 Project Accountant.

 ProcurementPlan

22.      A revised Procurement Plan has beenprepared and approved by AFTPC. Procurement
capacity in PCU has recently been strengthened by the addition o f an assistant procurement
officer, to support the Procurement Officer.

Extensionof ProjectClosingDate

23.     The measuresproposed above to addressthe causes o f slow implementation should result
in an acceleration o f disbursements. Nevertheless, the project's closing date of December 31,
2005 does not allow enough time to complete the core activities under the restructured program.
When the current one year extension was approved bythe Association, GoMhadrequested a two
year extension, GoM has requested a further two year extension to December 31, 2007 to allow
enough time for the program to be completed. Giventhe continuing relevance o f privatization in
Malawi, the strong political support for the program demonstrated at the highest level in
government and the measures incorporated in the restructured project to accelerate
implementation and disbursement rates, the project team recommends the extension. Accelerated
implementationo f the restructured project will be supported by the improvedproject governance
framework and the strengthened procurement and financial management capacity in the PCU.
Similarly, the dropping o f non-performing activities, a more vigorous public awareness
campaign and closer supervision from the Country Office will help speed up implementation.

M&EFramework

24.     The revisedProject Development Objective (PDO) is to enhance the climate for private
investment by reducing the state's direct participation inthe business sector. The revisedPDO i s
well aligned to the current Malawi Country Assistance Strategy Outcome I11- improvedbusiness
climate. Key results expected by the end o f the project, which are linked to the CAS outcomes,
andwhich havebeendiscussed andagreedwith the Government, are as follows:

     (i)    Reduction in state-subsidies to public enterprises from MK1.54 billion in January
            2001 to MK0.8 billion inDecember 2007 (inconstant 2001 Malawi kwacha); and
     (ii)240,000
            Six fold increase in total number o f telephone lines in the country from 40,000 to
                     by the closingdate ofDecember 31,2007.

The following milestones were discussed and agreedwith GoM:

        (i)  ESCOM has been restructured into three strategic business units and ready for
             concession byDecember 2007;

                                                7


       (ii)The MalawiPosts Corporation continuesto improve operational efficiencyand
             increased revenues through implementationof its business plan;
       (iii)Malawi Energy Regulatory Authority (MERA) has been established and is
             operational, by December 2006; and.
       (iv) Total number o ftelephone lines reaches200,000 byDecember 2006.


                                    V. Recommendation

25.    IamsatisfiedthattheproposedmodificationsofCreditNo.33950-MWcomplywiththe
Articles of Agreement o f the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
amending the legal agreement for the credit in accordance with the terms o f this memorandum.
The amendments to the Development Credit Agreement will then be forwarded to the
Government ofMalawi for signing.


                                                                                            Annex I


    Malawi: Privatization and Utilities ReformProiect-PO63093 (Credit No. 33950)


                  Summary list of Pre-privatization Preparatorv Activities


Electricity Sector

       1.     Conducting a tariff study to recommend tariffs that reflect the cost o f electricity
              supply*
       2.     Carry out an asset valuation exercise to assist ESCOMinthe determination of a
              realistic values o f all fixed assets located inthe various business units.
       3.     Review the financial and accounting systems o f the strategic business units and
              recommendifupgradingi s deemednecessary.
       4.     Provide highvoltage meteringequipment for the generation, transmission and
              distribution interfaces.
       5,     Preparationo f consultancy documentation for the rehabilitation o f Tedzani I&II.
       6.     Provision o f an Electricity Sector Industry Specialist to co-ordinate the ongoing
              reforms and assist inthe selection o f transaction advisory services for the
              awarding o ftransmission and distribution concessions.

Malawi Savings Bank (MSB)
       1.     Determination o f the restructuring options for MSB.
       2.     Determination o f any merit for a merger o f MSB andMalawi Rural finance
              Company (MRFC).
       3.     Assist MSB incommercializationprocess inreadiness for Private Sector
              Participation.

Agriculture Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)

              1,      Preparation o f corporate restructuringplan
              2.      HR audit andpreparation of a costed retrenchment plan
              3.      Preparation o f separate asset registers for social and conunercial functions
                      ofADMARC
              4.      Establishment o f two separate vehicles to assume ADMARC's
                      commercial and social functions.

Malawi Posts Corporation (MPC)

      1.     Assist MPC with the implementationo f a revisedbusiness planwhich i s designed
             to makeMPC self sustaining and remove any dependency on Government
             subsidies.
      2.     Conducting a market survey to better understand market expectations and
             challenges inthis age o f new technologies.

                                               2


      3.     Provision o f various tools and equipment (motor vehicles, computers andrelated
             ICT facilities, postalequipment).
      4.     Humanresourcedevelopment inorder to better equip MPCto raiseservice
             standards .

Chileka and KamuzuAirports

      1.     Undertake studies to recommend best options for Private Sector Participation.
      2.     Provide the necessaryregulatory environment for the Civil Aviation.

Multi Sector Regulation

      1.     Provide humanresource development for the regulatorybodies.
      2.     Provide necessarytools and equipment (Frequency Monitoring and Management
             system) for the existing Communications Regulator (MACRA).
      3.     Provide necessarytools and equipment (Power supply monitoring and
             measurement system) for the existing ElectricityRegulator
      4.     Support the formation (legislative reforms) o f the Water and Energy (Electricity
             and Liquidfuel) Regulator known as the Malawi Energyand Water Authority
             (MWERA).
      5,     Facilitate formation o fthe transport (railways, road and marine) Regulator known
             as Transport RegulatoryAuthority (TRANSRA).

Air Malawi Limited

      1.     While inthe passive mode o fprivatization, Air Malawi is being assistedto shore
             upthe value ofthe airline includingroutemanagement, training, market
             consolidationand cost reduction.

      88
Y     QI
c(    N


28
OI



-
r-
m
z
a

r
0

r    IC
     c
     0


-
2
C
U


+-
I-

I-
C
0
I-

                                                            Annex I11
                 EstimatedProiect Costs
Malawi: Privatizationand UtilitiesReformProiect- PO63095

                                                                                 Annex I V

                                           Schedule 1

                              Withdrawalof the Proceedsof the Credit


                                            Amount of the Credit             % of
                                            Allocated (Expressedin           Expenditures
                                            SDR equivalent)                 to be financed

           Category

   (1)     Consultants' services,
           training and audit

      (a) UnderPart A                              4,347,500                 100%
      ofthe Project

      (b) UnderPart B                              1,487,500
      o fthe Project

      (c) Under Part C                             1,362,000
      of the Project

      (d) UnderPart D                              1,462,000
      of the Project

      (e) Under Part E                              265,000
      o f the Project

      (0 UnderPartF                                1,398,000
      of the Project

(2)   Vehicles and                                                   100%of foreign
      Equipment                                                      expenditures and 90%
                                                                     of local expendittlres
      (a) Underpart A                              1,219,000
           ofthe Project

      (b) Underpart B                              1,320,500
           of the Project

      (c) Underpart C                             2, 978,312
           of the Project

     (d) Under part D                                280,000
          ofthe Project

                              5



   (e) Underpart E              287,500
       ofthe Project

   (f) UnderpartF               392300
       of the Project

(3)    Operatingcosts           640,000       100%of foreign
       UnderPartA                             expenditures and 90%
       ofproject                              of local expenditures


(4)    Refunding of             560,188       Amount due pursuant
       Project Preparation                    to Section2.02 (c) o f t
       Advance                                this Agreement

(5)    Unallocated              3,800,000

                                21,800,000

