Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3395-MAI
Project Agreement
(Privatization and Utility Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MALAWI POSTS CORPORATION
Dated September 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3395-MAI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and MALAWI POSTS CORPORATION 
(MPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Malawi (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that the Malawi Posts Corporation agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Malawi Posts Corporation, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Part C of the Project under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to the Malawi Posts Corporation on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Malawi Posts Corporation, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the 
Page  2
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MPC declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and postal services practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) MPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Part C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, MPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and 
MPC, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of Part C of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with MPC on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. MPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, MPC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) MPC shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
Page  3
under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
MPC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by MPC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MPC
Section 3.01. MPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and postal 
services practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. MPC shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and postal services 
practices.
Section 3.03. MPC shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  MPC shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
MPC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
Page  4
auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of MPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify MPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Malawi Posts Corporation:
Unit House
Victoria Avenue
P.O. Box 602
Page  5
Blantyre, Republic of Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
265-620188
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Malawi Posts Corporation may be taken or executed by the 
Postmaster General or such other person or persons as he or she shall 
designate in writing, and Malawi Posts Corporation shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
MALAWI POSTS CORPORATION
By /s/ Tony Kandiero
Authorized Representative
