Docwnunt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10334-YU   Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9069/ OEDD3                            ReportNo. 10334
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
MIDDLE NERETVA HYDRO PROJECT
(LOANS 1561-0-YU AND 1561-1-YU)
JANUARY 24, 1992
Energy and Environment Operations Division
European Department
Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Now Dinar
Market Rates
(at year end)
1977 US$1 = ND 0.002            1986  US$1 = ND 0.046
1978 US$1 = ND 0.002            1987  US$1 = ND 0.124
1979 US$1 = ND 0.002            1980  US$1 = ND 0.003
1981 US$1 = ND 0.00e            1988  US$1 = ND 0.521
1982 US$1 = ND 0.009            1989  US$1 = ND 11.816
1963 US$1 = ND 0.013            1990  US$1 = ND 10.657
1984 US$1 = ND 0.021            1991* US$1 = ND 23.000
1985 US$1 = ND 0.031
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m    =  Meter (3.28 feet)
Km   =  Kilometer (0.62 miles)
Kg   =  Kilogram (2.2 pounds)
ton    =  Metric tonne (2,205 pounds)
1 kilovolt (kV)    =  1,000 Volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)    =  (Commercial unit ot sale of electric power) 1,000 Watts
1 Megawan (MW)    =  (Commercial unit of sale of electrical power) 1,000kW
1 kilowatt-nour (kWh) =  (Commercial unit of sale of electrical energy) 1,00OWh
1 Megawatt-hour    =  (Commerical unit of sale of electricity) 1,00OkWh
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)=  1 million kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH    =      Bosnia - Hercegovina
BOAL =       Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EBH   =      Elektroprivreda Bosne I Hercegovina
ERR   =      Economic Rate of Retum
HEN   =      Hidroelektrane Na Neretvi (Neretva)
HPP   =      Hydro power project
JUGEL =      Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
LRMC =       Long Run Marginal Cost
SDK   =      Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or Social Accounting Service
(SAS)
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*end-April



THE WOiaD SANKFOR OMFCIA6L USE ONLY
THE WOiZLC BANK                 Ro          u    B
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
nE Dw.ctoq.Gnrwal
)Pfinnsmew EvaIuatk,
February 4, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Middle Neretva Hydro Project
(Loans 1561-0-YU and 1561-1-YU)
Attached, for information, is a ccipy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Middle Neretva Hydro Project (Loans 1561-0-YU
and 1561-1-YU)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJEC COMPLETION REPORT
MIDDLE NEREA) HYDRO PROJECT
(LOANS 1561-OYtT AND 1561-1-Y)M
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE.                                                                                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................                                ii-iv
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                  1
Project Design and Organization ..............................                      3
Project Implementation ......................,                                      4
Project Results .....................                                               8
Project Sustairnability .....................                                      11
Bank Performance .....................                                             12
Performance of the Borrower and Executing Agency ................  12
Performance of Consultants ......................................  13
Performance of Contractors ......................................  13
Project Relationship ............................................  14
Project Documentation and Data ..................................  14
Lessons to be Learned ...........................................  14
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE........   16
FART II STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...............................   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othervvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLEMION REPOR1
YfUGO-SLA VIA
MIDDLE NEREIVA HYDRO PROJECT
(LOANS 1561:-O-   AND 1561-1-YU
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Middle Neretva
Hydro Project in the Republic of Bosnia - Hercegovina (BH) in Yugoslavia. A
total loan o; $134 million was made by the Bank, in two tranches, to
Elektroprivreda Bosne X Hercegovine (EBH) for the construction of the project
in two phases, phase I and phase II. The first tranche -Loan 1561-0-YU for
US$73 million-was approved on May 2, 1978 for phase I for construction of
Grabovica and Salakovac hydro power stations (para 3.02). The second tranche
-Loan 1561-1-YU for US$61 million- was approved on June 21, 1983 for phase II,
as a supplemental loan to the first, for construction of Mostar hydro power
station (para 3.02). The loan was officially closed on June 30, 1989, one
year behind schedule, although disbursements continued through to April 20,
1990. Except for an unutilized amount of $5,191,243.76 which was cancelled,
the loan was fully disbursed.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy and Environment
Operations Division of the Eastern European Department of the Europe and
Central Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
the Borrower, EHB, and Neretva , the project executing agency (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final Supervision
mission of the project in November 1989 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank, EBH and Neretva, and internal Bank
documents.



- ii -
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVTA
MIDLE NEREIVA HYDRO PROJEC
(LOANS 1561-0-YU AND 1561-1-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective
The project was designed to meet the need for peaking capacity in
the power system of Bosnia - Hercegovina at least-cost, to contribute to
meeting the overall energy requirements of Yugoslavia through the generation
of electricity for the national interconnected transmission network and to
promote the economic development of indigenous energy resources. It was aimed
at furthering coordination amongst the various republican and provincial power
entities and amongst the constituent organizations within EBH. It further
aimed at pursuing the institution-building objectives of the First and Second
Power Transmission Projects (Loan 836 and Loan 1469), specifically at
improving efficiency of operations, economic and financial planning,
forecasting and budgeting procedures within EBH (para 3.01).
Im_lementation
Phase 1 of the Project, comprising the two schemes at Grabovica
and Salakovac, was commenced in March 1977 and was mostly completed and came
into commercial oDeration by March 1983 (para 5.02). However, a leakage of
the Salakovac reservoir, which poses no danger to the dam structure, was
noticed during its filling. Since then, extensive investigations and grouting
in the reservoir to reduce the leakage have been on-going. However, so far,
these have proved futile (paras 5.03 and 6.01(c)). Disbursements continued
through to April 20, 1990, mainly to enable withdrawals against expenditures
incurred on the account of the on-going works on the Salakovac reservoir
(para 5.12).
Phase II of the Project, comprising the Mostar scheme, was
commenced in early 1983, about four years later than originally planned
because of the need for additional geological studies and a shortage of
financial resources, especially foreign exchange (para 5.02). It was
satisfactorily completed and came into commercial operation by end-1988.
However, the reservoir has been temporarily maintained at elevation 77 meters,
instead of the design maximum operating level of 78 meters, because at
elevation 78 meters, the groundwater on the left bank of the reservoir began
to enroach on the underground structures of a nearby textile mill and other
industrial structures leading to their endangerment (paras 5.03 and 6.01(e)).
So far, the required protection measures have not been put in place by Neretva
to enable the full production of the power station to be realized.



- iii -
Proiect Results
The project was a partial success. It was completed with about
12X cost over-run compared to appraisal estimate mainly because of about 26X
local cost over-run. The physical objectives of the project were mostly
achieved despite a continuing seepage of water at the Salakovac reservoir
(para 5.03) and the current temporary restriction on the full utilization of
the Mostar reservoir (para 5.03). The three plants are used for peaking
purposes as planned and except for the shortfalls in production due to leakage
at Salakovac, the restriction on full utilization of Mostar, and some minor
fall in energy production due to incomplete works on river bed deepening,
deliver almost the expected output. The revenue loss to EBH due to the
shortfalls in production is about $6 million, equivalent, per year at current
electricity prices (para 6.01). The economic rite of return (ERR) on the
investment in the project is re-estimated at 10.21 compared to 11.21 at
appraisal.
The project did not achieve the objective of furthering inter-
republic coordination, neither did it achieve the objective of improving
economic and financial planning, forecasting and budgeting procedures. As a
result of inadequate tariff action by the republican authorities, the project
results in the financial area fell below expectations. In 1979-81 EBH's self-
financing level was about 261 as against the covenanted 35Z. FurLhermore, EBH
could not on its own comply with the s'i1qtitute long run marginal cost (LRMC)
pricing covenant introduced in 1983 under the Third Power Transmission Project
(Loan 2338-0-YU) which called for adjustment of electricity prices to LRMC
levels by December 31, 1987, since it required decision at the power industry
level and that of the Federal Government. EBH's electricity prices have since
remained low relative to cost which has resulted in deterioration in its
financial position. However, the project has been successful in improving
expertise in technical operations of hydro plants.
Sustainability
Neretva has emerged from the project as an enterprise with
experienced and competent technical management and staff with the skills
necessary for the efficient operatiors of the three plants. This is
reinforced by the experience gained in the operations of the two upstream Rama
and Jablanica power stations. EBH and Neretva would also need to continuously
keep the problem of seepage of water at the Salakovac reservoir under review
so that the seepage does not worsen and scuttle the benefits of the project.
Also, Neretva should endeavor to solve, as soon as possible, the realization
problem of groundwater enroachment on structures on the left bank to enable
full operation of the Mostar power station (para 6.01). Above all, to sustain
the benefits of the project, through adequate and continuous maintenance of
the plant and equipment, EBH will need to maintain a sound financial position,
which will also ensure its ability to meet its obligations and to generate
adequate internal funds for expansion. EBH, like other power entitles
currently face the formidable task of maintaining efficiency of operations and
meeting financial obligations. In the light of the unfavorable macro-economic
situation, which has affected the ability of major consumers to pay for



- iv -
electricity supplies, the extent to shich EBH would k  able to maintain
efficiency of operations and meet financial obligations, would depend on the
rate at which the broader macro-economic problems of the country are
addressed, ard public utilities are able to charge prices that meet financial
and eco-    - objectives.  This does not appear to be achievable in the short-
run bu-   o situation is expected to gradually improve over time.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The project demonstrates the dangers posed by karstic conditions
at a dam site and how the best of precautions cannot entirely overcome the
risks. The project also demonstratfs the significant financial difficulties
for a Borrower to implement a project on schedule and fulfill financial
covenants, when electricity prices are kept below levels that will ensure
financial viability. In addition, the financial weakness led to some works
being only partially fulfilled, e.g the river bed deepening and delays in
solving the problem posed by the groundwater level near the Mostar reservoir
(para 5.03).
The lessons learned are that in dam construction in karstic
conditions, scientific investigations should be carried out more extensively
with the most modern technology and should be a cnntinuous -'Q--wity during the
period of project implementation. The Borrower must not only have the
necessary financial resources to implement the project but must be able to
engage the expertise, including the appropriate technology to meet the
challenges of works in such conditions. In view of the autonomy of republics
and the political system, a republican project cannot be used to foster
sector-wide objectives. In addition, the inability of EBH to comply with the
LRMC covenant shows the difficulties in obtaining sector-wide agreement on
matters that affect the investment choices of republics.



PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
YfUGOSL&VIA
MIDDLE NERETVA         RO PROJEC
(LOANS 1561--YU AND 1561-1-YU)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identit'r
Project Name             Middle Neretva dydro Project
Loan Nos.                1561-0-YU and 1561-1-YU
RVP Unit                 EHENA Region
Country                  Yugoslavia
Sector             :     Energy
Subsector                Power
2.    Background
2.01        In the decade preceding the appraisal of the project, the growth
in generating capacity to the Yugoslav power system was inadequate to meet th0
demand for electricity which was growing at about 10% per year on the average.
The retardation in the construction of new generating facilities was due to
the increasing decentralization of Yugoslavia's economy fragmenting the sub-
sector into autonomous organizations, and the consequential reduction in
Federal government funding for power development. Beginning early 1971,
Federal funds for power development was abolished altogether, and the power
enterprises which had hitherto maintained low tariff rates and achieved
limited internal cash generation, were unable to finance expansion when these
low-cost long-term federal credits were no longer available. Consequently the
construction of new power plants lagged.
2.02        Yugoslavia's 1976-80 Five Year Plan placed the highest priority on
increasing the role of domestic energy resources in meeting the country's
energy needs. In this regard, construction of thermal power plants
accelerated and moreover, financing was easier to obtain through suppliers'*
credits and barter trade arrangement because of the large equipment and
machinery component of such schemes. On the other hand financing for hydro
plants was much more difficult to obtain because the civil works, which
constitutes a large proportion of hydro projects have always been awarded to
local contractors. In view of this and in order to assist in improving the
plant mix, a hydro power project was appropriate for Bank financing.
2.03        It was in tbe above context that the project was formulated.  The
project was first reviewed by the Bank in 1974 in the context of 12 projects
submitted to the Bank by the various republics. The project was selected
among four, judged most economic, for closer study. Following the inability
of Bosnia - Hercegovina to proceed with the Buk Bijela project, for which the
Bank approved a loan of $73 million in 1976 but failed to become effective
because of inter-republican dispute, the Yugoslav authorities requested the
Bank to review alternative schemes. A Bank mission visited Yugoslavia in May
1977 to identify a suitable power project in one of the less developed
republics and the subject project was selected for appraisal in October 1977.



- 2-
3.    Project Ob1ectives and Description
3.01        Proiect Objectives.  The project is designed to meet the need for
peaking capacity in the power system of Bosnia - Hercegovina at hlast-cost, to
contribute to meeting Yugoslavia's overall energy needs through the
generation of electricity for the national interconnected power transmission
network, and to promote economic development of domestic energy resources. In
addition, the project would continue to further coordination between Bosnia -
Hercegovina and the other republican and provincial power entities, through
JUGEL, and strengthen coordination among the constituent organizations within
Bosnia - Hercegovina's power sector composite organization (Elektroprivreda
Bosne I Hercegovine or EBH).   Moreover, the project would enable the Bank to
pursue more closely, the implementation of the consultants' recommendations
under the studies already undertaken or being initiated as part of the First
and Second Power Transmission Projects. These studies were aimed at
establishing improved proceadures for the efficient operation and management of
the Bosnia - Herzegovina power system wiciiin the context of the Yugoslavia
interconnected system, as well as improving EBH's capability in economic and
financial planning, forecasting and budgeting procedures.
3.02        Proiect DescriRtion.    The project consisted of three dams
(Grabovica, Salakovac and Mostar) and their associated power stations and
transmission links the republican power grid. The project would be executed
in two phases.  Phase I would comprise the Grabovica and Salakovac schemes and
phase II would comprise the Mostar scheme. The power capacities of the three
stations would be 116 MW, 205 MW and 75 MW, respectively.  The thre concrete
gravity dams would impound the river waters in continuous cascade; the lower
reservoir at Mostar would regulate the water discharge from the upper two
schemes which would be operated primarily during periods of peak load. The
Salakovac dam would be equipped with a take-off conduit allowing 4mJ/s of
water to be supplied to the area north of Mostar for eventual irrigation of
some 2,000 ha and for water supply purposes. Although the Grabovica and
Salakovac developments, without the lower dam and reservoir at Mostar, could
be justified independently at lower electrical power capacities, the Mostar
scheme was included in this project because it would be needed for downstream
river regulation thus assuring efficient utilization of the Grabovica and
Salakovac developments and consequently, for the most economic development of
this stretch of the river. The construction of Mostar would allow optimal
operation of the Salakovac plant, enabling an increase of 30 GWh of output and
increase in power production by 120 MW and peak energy production by about
240 GWh. Mainly due to financial constraints, and the need for additional
geological investigations, construction of Mostar was to follow once the
construction of the two upstream plants were well underway. Accordingly, the
completion of firm engineeriig plans supported by geological studies and
updated capital cost estimates and assurances of EBH and Neretva to provide
adequate financing for the Mostar station, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the first proposed loan of $73 million for phase I of the
Project. The foreign exchange financing requirements for Mostar were then to
be obtained from sources other than the Bank (4.05).



- 3-
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.01          The project design concep_. and timing was considered appropriate
and timely to ensure the most economic plant mix in the Bosnia - Hercegovina
power system. The feasibility studies and design had been prepared by Neretva
with the assistance of several Yugoslav consulting firms. In view of the
karstic nature of Neretva river basin, extensive explorative drillings were
undertaken. The design provided for the establishment through grouting
procedure.s of a barrier against water leakage. As part of the investigations
for the design, a grout curtain was constructed in 1965 in a trial section of
the Salakovac dam and it provided evidence of the effectiveness of the
procedure
4.02        EBH, the Borrower, was origina.,.y established in 1973 as a work
organization responsible for coordinating the power development and operations
of the Republic's generation and transmission enterprises. In 1977,
distribution enterprises were also incorporated into EBH and the whole staff
of EBH's constituent organizations then amounted to 9,800. Training of
personnel was an ongoing activity coordinated by EBH. EBH agreed to submit to
the Bank by December 31, 1978, its subsequent program for training and
manpower development for review and comment before implementation. The
purpose of the training was to ensure that the program would provide
sufficient numbers of adequately qualified and trained staff for the new
facilities being constructed.
4.03        Although EBH was selected as the Borrower in view of its status as
the apex power sector organization in the Republic and its role as a borrower
under the First and Second Power Transmission Loans, the physical construction
of the project was to be executed by Hidroelektrane na Neretvi (Neretva), one
of EBH's constituent work organizations.  Neretva entered into a Project
Agreement with the Bank and the proceeds of the Bank loan were to be made
available to Neretva on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Neretva's Management and staff were experienced and well-qualified. It was
operating and managing the Rama and Jablanica hydro plants.
4.04        Construction supervision foL the two sites of Grabovica and
Salakovac was by separate site staff coordinated and employed by Neretva.
This arrangemeat was proving effective. The consultants for the project were
an experienced Yugoslav firm who had a cortinuing responsibility for advice
and engineering design through project execution. Neretva agreed to continue
to employ c -sultants, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution of the
project. ' view of the uncertainty and potential risks associated wit'k dams
in karstic conditions both EBH and Neretva agreed to establish a panel of
experts, independent of the designers of the project, to familiarize
themselves with the design and to advise in the event of unforeseen problems
arising during construction. The appointment of a panel, satisfactory to the
Bank, was a condition of effectiveness of the loan. In addition, Neretva
agreed to set up an expert Engineering Review Board to undertake periodic
inspections of the hydro works, to ensure that they would be carried out in
accordance with sound engineering practice.



4.05        Apart from the two Bank loans of $73 million and $61 million for
phases I and II, respectively, arrangements were made for obtaining the rest
of tht project financing. The submission to the Bank of a local bank
(Privredna Bank) guarantee to provide the balance of the funds needed to
complete phase I of the Project, including cost over-runs and interest during
construction, was a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan for phase I
and also for phase II. The Bank agreed in 1983 to provide the foreign
exchange financing for phase II because of the inability of EBH to obtain
alternative sources of financing (paras 3.02 & 5.02), and on the basis of the
findings of a Bank mission which carried out a review of the technical and
financial aspects of the project, and concluded that the conditions in Loan
1561-YU regarding Mostar had been satisfactorily met by the EBH and Neretva.
4.06        Actions were also taken to assure the financial viability of EBH
and to secure an adequate level of internal cash generation. EBH agreed to
achieve internal cash generation of a minimum of 35% of investment as against
30% required under the Second Power Transmission Loan of 1977. This was
subsequently replaced by the LRMC covenant under Loan 2338-YU to raise
electricity prlces to LRMC levels by December 31, 1987. In addition,
arrangements were made to obtain consumer contributions towards the project
financing. Arrangements for audit of the Borrower's accounts by the Sp,"ial
Audit Group of the Social Accounting Service (,AS) were made, which amonL
other things, would provide adequate informaticn on the financial position of
EBH and Neretva for remedial actions on project financing to be taken as
necessary.
4.07        With the above actions, there was reasonable assurance that the
project would be completed satisfactorily in accordance with the planned
schedule.
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.01        HLoan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up.  Although, Loan 1561-0-
YU was approved on May 2, 1978, it was not declared effective until November
15, 1978. This was due to delays in securing local bank guarantee (para 4.05)
for financing of the local cost component and the completion of the local
procedures for obtaining the World Bank loan. Loan 1561-1-YU was approved on
June 12, 1983, but became effective on December 15, 1983 for similar reasons.
Under Yugoslav conditions, the delays were not unexpected.  However, they had
no effect on the start-up of the project components, since the civil works
were already on-going (para 5.02).
5.02        Implementation Schedule.   At appraisal, construction of the two
upstream plants, Grabovica and Salakovac, was estimated to take about
56 months to complete. The actual construction took 74 months to complete.
The civil works not proposed for Bank financing, started in March 1977 and was
progressing satisfactorily at appraisal. Construction of Mostar was commenced
in October 1983 and was mostly completed by June 30, 1988, one year behind
appraisal schedule.



-5-
5.03 The delays in project completion were due to the following five major
reasons:
(a)   light Construction Schedule.  The construction schedule prepared
at appraisal was rather optimistic. Although, the main civil
works contractor and the contractor for engineering supervision,
on whose proposals the implementation schedules were based, had
already been engaged then (para 5.01), experience in similar
projects in karstic areas would have suggested a more conservative
implementation estimate, to take into account difficulties and
contingencies inherent in this kind of project.
(b)   Problems with Contractors.  The main civil works contracts were
awarded to Yugoslav firms with both extensive local and
international experience in the construction of major dams and
civil works. There were different contractors for the civil works
and supervision for phases I and II. The civil works contractor
for phase I had initial financial difficulties in procuring heavy
dutv construction equiDment and machinery and, therefore, could not pro-
ceed to the site in time. Some of the equipment and machinery had
to be transported from previous work sites in the Middle East to
Yugoslavia. These led to considerable initial delays in
implementation. However, once the required equipment and
machinery were on site, the contractor accelerated the work, and
implemented activities that could be carried out in parallel in
order to make up for some of the lost time.
(c)   Bad Weather.  Unexpected heavy rains in early 1977 caused
significant rise in the waters of the Neretva river and flooding
of the diversion tunnel outlet and stoppages of works on river
diversion. The heavy r-ins also caused significant rise in the
groundwater levels and ,looding of the construction pit. This led
to delays in works on the grouting curtain, and c3ncreting for the
dam and power house. Exceptionally cold winter, at times, also
hampered construction works.
(d)   Geological Problems.
(i) As advised by the Bank, a panel of independent experts had
been established to advise Neretva in the event of unforseen
problems arising during construction. During the construction,
numerous unexpected geological problems were encountered. These
were mainly larger caverns in the river bed than anticipated in
the design both at Grabovica and Salakovac. Extensive grouting
and concreting was required to solve the problems. A reinforced
concrete structure had to be constructed for the power house and
portions of the dams immediately above the caverns. In addition,
because of the karstic formations, the high levels of groundwater
and its seepage into the construction pit required extensive
grouting to prevent their persistent occurrence. Similar problems
were encountered on Mostar, but on a smaller scale. These led to
significant increases in the volume of excavations, construction



-6 -
of embankments, and concreting compared to estimates at appraisal.
During the filling of the Salakovac reservoir, new springs
appeared on the left bank, downstream of the dam and the flows
from pre-existing springs increased by as much as about 35 cubic
meters per second in the dry season. The panel of experts
concluded that significant quantities of water were leaking from
the reservoir through the left bank. However, it was noticed also
that the leakage did not pose any danger to the dam structure.
The panel recommended further scientific investigations and
grouting works to address the problem.
(ii) In an attempt to locate the leakage holes in the Salakovac
reservoir, the reservoir was emptied and grouting works were
carried out in the suspected areas of leakage. This was
successful in reducing the flow from the springs by about 4-5
cubic meters per second to about 30 cubic meters per second. The
Bank further retained the services of an expert engineering
geologist with international experience from 1985 through 1989, on
an adhoc basis, to review periodically the works carried out and
the method of investigations and recommend further actions. In
addition, the closing date of the loan was extended by the Bank by
one year to allow completion of additional grouting works that
were then on-going. The Bank suggested some new techniques for
the investigations. The problem remains unsolved.
(iii) During the filling of the Mostar reservoir, the groundwater
on the left bank upstream of the dam rose to unexpectedly high
levels. This led to flooding of the foundations and underground
structures of a near-by textile mill and an agricultural complex
in spite of the extensive grouting protection works carried out
along the left bank. This was yet another example of the hazards
of the geological conditions. The panel of experts confirmed no
leakage of the dam structure. To avoid endangering those
structures, and as a temporary measure until the problem is
solved, the reservoir level has been maintained at elevation 77
meters instead of the design maximum operating level of 78 meters.
This has added a new dimension to the environmental aspects of the
project (para 5.04).
(e)   Financial Difficulties.  Low electricity tariffs and the inability
of the Borrower to raise them, led to serious weakness in the
financial position of the Borrower and difficulties to meet, on a
timely basis, payments to local contractors. The financial
difficulties combined with unexpected increases in the consumption
of basic materials (cement, reinforced steel, fuel, etc.) led to
an acute shortage of materials at various stages of construction
of phase I and consequent delays in implementation. Eventually,
the republican authorities had to levy special taxes on
electricity consumption to meet the local financing gap. The
shortage of local funds also led to partial completion of works on
the river bed deepening.



7-
5.04        Environmental Aspects.  The environmental component of the Project
was studied in detail and was reviewed by the Bank at appraisal. It covered
resettlement of affected families, compensation for agricultural land and
other immovable properties, relocation of roads and other social
infrastructure, protection of endangered fish life, and ancient relics. For
the protection of endangered fish life, a fish hatchery was constructed at
Mostar for research and development of rare and endangered fish life in the
rivers in the Republic. This has developed into a modern fishery research
center. The environmental component was satisfactorily carried out in
accordance with republican requirements and as was agreed with the Bank at
appraisal. However, until, appropriate preventive measures are taken against
the potential dangers to the underground facilities of the structures
(para 5.03 (iii)) near the Mostar reservoir, the full production of the
station cannot be realized. In early 1989, the Bank retained the services of
an expert engineering geologist to review the problem and recommend possible
solutions. The major constraint to implementing the recommendations has been
lack of local funds. Meanwhile, the Mostar power station continues to lose
about 7% (20 GWh) of energy generation per year, as well as a reduction in its
peaking capacity and a loss of about 2% of peak energy production from
Salakovac.
5.05        Procurement.  On the whole, procurement action on the items
financed by the Bank proceeded satisfactorily, and was in accordance with Bank
guidelines. There was a minor issue of use by Neretva of some construction
materials, cement and reinforcement steel for the construction of community
swimming pool for the city of Mostar and housing for the operators of the
Mostar power station, without prior Bank approval. The Bank supervision
mission reviewed the situation and accepted Neretva's explanation.
Project Costs and Financing
5.06     Proiect costs.   The estimated project cost, including physical and
price contingencies at appraisal was US$444.9 million, equivalent. The final
cost at completion was US$500.2 million, equivalent. Details showing costs of
phases I and II are provided in Part III paras 4.01 and 4.02. The increases
in the total cost of about 12% is because of a 25% increases in the actual
local costs compared to appraisal estimate. There was a cost under-run in the
foreign component of about 17% due to a relatively strong US dollar and the
favorable responses to the internationally tendered competitive bids for the
supply of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment and for construction
equipment (para 5.08).
5.07     Project Financing.  At appraisal of phase I, the Bank loan of $73
million equivalent was projected to cover the foreign cost component of that
phase. Foreign exchange financing for the Mostar scheme, which was to follow
later, was to be obtained from sources other than the Bank (para 4.05).
However, due to the inability of EBH to obtain the financing from other
sources, the Bank agreed to the request of EBH to provide the foreign exchange
financing of $61 million equivalent. As a result, the Bank loan increased to
$134 million equivalent (para 5.08), to cover the entire foreign exchange cost
component, about 30%, of the estimated total project cost. Sufficient



-8-
arrangements were made to ensure adequate financing of the local cost
component from EBH's internal sources, consumer contributions through
surcharges on electricity consumption (para 4.06), loans from local commercial
banks, and contribution from the federal fund for underdeveloped republics.
Because of EBH's inability to meet its contribution to the financing, as
originally planned, the shortfall in local financing was made up through
additional borrowing from local banks, increased consumer contributions, and
from the Social Reproduction Funds of the republic. There were significant
delays in obtaining the additional contributions from these sources, which
affected implementation (para 5.03 (e)). Details are provided in Part III,
section 4.
Loan Allocation
5.08         The original loan  agreement for $73 million loan was amended
when the supplemental loan was made in October 1983 for a revised total loan
amount of $134 million. For phase I, the Bank loan was allocated to the
procurement of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment. For phase II, the
allocation of the loan covered machinery and equipment, construction machinery
and materials, fuel, cement and reinforcement steel. The original allocation
in the Amending Loan Agreement was revised in the light of che responses to
the bids, which provided the possibility for the Bank to finance interest
during construction on the Bank loan ( phase II) at the request of the
Borrower.
Disbursements
5.12         Estimated and actual disbursements are shown in Part III,
psaras 3.01 and 3.02 for phase I and for phase II, respectively. To expedite
disbursements under phase II, Special Account was provided. The disbursement
delays were due to the project implementation delays. The official loan
closing date was extended once from June 30, 1988 to June 30, 1989. In
addition, the loan account was kept open until April 20, 1990 to allow for
disbursements against eligible expenditures incurred on the project prior to
June 30, 1989, to be made. The unutilized amount of $5,191,243.76 of the loan
was cancelled on October 31, 1989.
6.    Project Results
6.01        The first unit of the Grabovica HPP was commissioned on January
22, 1982 and the second unit on September 22, 1982. The first unit of the
Salakovac HPP was commissioned on January 27, 1982 and the second unit in July
1982. There was a delay of about 18 months in the original planned
implementation schedule. At Mostar, installation of the plant and equipment
was achieved in accordance with the revised implementation schedule, about one
year behind appraisal schedule. The three generating sets were commissioned
on October 31, 1987, December 17, 1987 and April 15, 1988 respectively. All
the tests were satisfactory and the plants delivered the output required by
the bid documents. There were, however, some shortfalls in the possible
production of the plants as detailed below mainly because of (i) substantial
seepage from the Salakovac reservoir, (ii) non-completion of works on river



9
deepening and development at all three plants arising from lack of local funds
and (iii) limitation of the water level at Mostar to 77 meters instead of the
design maximum normal operating level of 78 meters:
(a)   the long-term average annual energy capability  possible of
Grabovica would be only 337.1 GWh, a 2.7% reduction in the
appraisal estimate of 546.4 GWh because of non-completion of river
bed deepening;
(b)   a reduction of about 1.7% at Salakovac as compared to the
appraisal estimate due to non-completion of river bed deepening;
(c)   a reduction of about 12% (70 GWh) at Salakovac as a result of
seepage of water from the reservoir;
(d)   a reduction of about 5% (14 GWh) at Mostar due to non-completion
of bed deepening;
(e)   a reduction of about 7% (20 GWh) at Mostar owing to the limitation
of the reservoir water level to 77.0 meters; and
(f)   a reduction of about 1.8% at Salakovdc due to the limitation of
the Mostar reservoir level.
Currently, the annual revenue loss to EBH due to these shortfalls in
production is about $6 million, equivalent.
6.02        The substantial and continuing leakage from the Salakovac
reservoir needs careful watching with a view to ensuring that it does not
increase to alarming proportions and scuttle the benefits of the plant. The
Yugoslavs are well aware of the need for extreme vigilance in this regard.
6.03        One of the benefits accruing to Neretva from the project was that
its staff gained valuable experience in hydro plant construction and
supervision. Their technical expertise in these matters was raised to a much
higher level as a result of the project. The manpower training program focused
on technical training but was weak in the areas of economics and finance.
6.04        The objective of furthering co-ordination among the various
rep'ublican and provincial power entities through JUGEL was not achieved, but
the project succeed-d in improving co-ordination between the member
organizations of EBH.
6.05        The project did not fulfill the expectations in the financial
area. Its self-financing level was an average of only 25.8% in 1979-81 as
against the covenanted 35%. As with the rest of the power industry, the LRMC
covenant was observed by EBH in default. No doubt, the macro-economic
conditions were a partial explanation for the weak financial performance of
EBH. Details of the increases in electricity prices are given in the
Attachment.
6.06        The project results were not wholly satisfactory in the audit area



-10-
as well. The quality of audits improved as a result of the project, but not
its timeliness. EBH was not able to adhere even to the extended time limit of
nine months for the submission of audited accounts. There were and continue
to be significant qualifications raised by the auditors on the financial
statements, although, some of the qualifications have been due to persistent
changes in the Yugoslav accounting laws.
6.07        Economic Justification of the Project.  The Appraisal Report
justified the investment in the proposed project because:
(i)   it provided the least-cost means of meeting the projected peaking
capacity requirements of the power system of Bosnia - Hercegovina;
and
(ii)    the economic rate of return on the investment was estimated to be
about 11.2% compared to the opportunity cost of capital of about
10%.
The least-cost justification was established from the republican viewpoint
because at that time the concept of a national least-cost investment program
as a strategy of sector development was under discussion with the power
industry and the federal authorities. A national least-cost generation
expansion study which was to serve as a basis for further discussions was also
under preparation by Yugoslav Consultants. Meanwhile, and as with the
previous projects, the Bank found the republican approach to system planning
acceptable. In the case of this project, it was considered that its potential
for significant deviations from the overall national least-cost development
program would be minimal, because the republic was rich in energy resource and
would only construct the projects that would still be of high priority in a
national context.
6.08        The least-cost Justification was established by comparing the
estimated costs of the proposed project to costs of alternative thermal power
plants that would otherwise be constructed to provide the same output and role
in the power system as the proposed project. The appraisal report confirmed
the proposed project as the least-cost among the tue*m" alternatives
considered.
6.09        On the basis of actual project costs, current output and
simulation of expected generation of the power station, taking the energy
losses into account (para 6.01), the economic cost of generation from the
power station is estimated at about US 5.2 cents/kWh. This is lower than the
cost of generation of about US 6 cents/kWh from an alternative peaking gas
turbine unit firing distillate fuel and the cost of imported electricity by
Yugoslavia of about US 6-8 cents/kWh from Europe at winter peak period.
Therefore, on the basis of peak incremental electricity cost, the project
offers the least-cost means of meeting peaking requirements.
6.10        The rate of return on the investment in the project was estimated
at appraisal to be about 11.2% on the basis of comparison of quantifiable
project costs and benefits following standard Bank approach. Costs were
appropriately shadow priced and the output was valued at prevailing
electricity tariffs as a proxy for the project benefits. In re-assessing the



-11-
economic rate of return, actual project costs were used. Firm energy output
of the stations were valued at the average consumer tariff at winter peak
period. Secondary energy output was valued at the average consumer tariff at
the summer off-peak period. The consumer average tariffs is a composite
average of capacity charge and the rate for energy. The tariffs were used as
proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay and hence the benefit derived. All
costs and benefits were expressed in 1978 prices to enable the application of
the same factors in converting financial costs to economic terms. The
economic rate of return is re-assessed at about 10.2%. The re-assessed ERR
underestimates the project benefits since it does not consider the increase in
electricity production when the restriction on the operation of Mostar is
eventually resolved. As at appraisal, the benefits due to improved
agriculture through irrigation, using water drawn from the lake, was not taken
into account.
6.11        The least-cost comparison and the re-assessed economic rate of
return, confirm the economic justification of the Project.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.01        When the leakage of water from the Salakovac reservoir as a result
was noticed (para 5.03 (i)), appropriate steps were immediately taken in
consultation with the Bank and independent experts to stop the seepage. The
steps taken included emptying of the reservoir and carrying out extensive
grouting works in the possible areas of leakages, improving the techniques and
technology for investigations and grouting. As a result,the situation has
stabilized with the water loss level currently estimated at about 30m3/second
during the dry season. The problem needs to be studied over a long period to
determine what, if any, measures could be undertaken to arrest the continuous
loss, for which substantial funds would be needed. More recently, on the
recommendations of the Bank, new techniques of investigations are being used
by Neretva, which would enable investigations to be carried out over a wider
bed of the reservoir. In order to reap in full the benefits of the project,
the seepage has to be controlled, and the Yugoslav authorities would need to
show extreme and continuous vigilance to keep the problem under constant
review. EBH has to continue to be a well-managed and financially strong
utility if the project benefits are to be fully sustained. For this, EBH
needs to review its tariffs and its assumption of debt constantly so as to
keep a healthy balance between its revenues and its obligations and to
generate, internally, adequate funds for expansion. Unfortunately, EBH does
not have a satisfactory record in this respect. For example, at the end of
1985, YDinars 3.3 billion of annuities due were not paid. With the present
low levels of electricity prices, the unfavorable macro-economic conditions,
and the inability of major consumers, especially industry, to meet their
electricity bills on a timely basis, the danger of liabilities outstripping
revenues is a constant one, needing continuous vigilance. Even though, EBH,
like the other power entities, now has the legal authority to set electricity
prices, its ability to achieve financial viability and sustain it will depend
to a large extent on the macro-economic well-being of the country, and when
the major consumers would be able to pay prices that meet the cost of service
to them. In the short-run, this does not appear achievable, but the situation



-12-
is expected to gradually improve over time.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        The project was a partial success.  Despite problems arising from
a shortage of financial resources for construction, the project could have
been rated an unqualified success were it not for the Borrower's
unsatisfactory financial performance and the seepage of water from the
Salakovac reservoir. During 1979-81, EBH's self-financing level came to an
average of only 25.8% as against the covenanted 35% and its performance in
1982 was even worse. In dealing with this situation, the Bank showed
understanding and flexibility inasmuch as a new covenant was negotiated and
applied to the project. At appraisal, the Bank identified the right issues
facing the project and provided appropriate covenants for handling them. The
possibility of difficulties that might arise from karstic conditions was
foreseen by the Bank and the establishment of an independent panei of experts
was specifically provided to handle such a situation. In the end, the Bank's
fears proved true. The Bank also showed flexibility in allowing the then
unutilized amount of $3.3 million out of the loan ($73 million) for the
specific purpose of works to help reduce the seepage from the Salakovac
reservoir and in further extending the loan closing date to June 30, 1989.
8.02        The difficult situation created by the water seepage at the
Salakovac reservoir was a unique one that required the advice of an expert
geologist, which led the Bank to engage such an expert to advise the executing
agency, on the remedial action to be taken to reduce the leakage. This extra
precaution was taken despite the panel of experts (with an expert geologist as
one of its members) being already available to the executing agency for
advice. The Bank found it necessary to provide additional international
expert advice, since the panel comprised only local experts.
8.03        The Bank did not succeed in improving financial planning and
management, and auditing in the Borrower organization. This is because, since
1983, the Yugoslav accounting laws have been under constant revisions. The
inevitable discontinuity of staff over the long project period of well over a
decade (from 1977 through 1990) and the relatively low frequency of Bank
supervision missions were also contributing factors.
9.    Performance of the Borrower and Executing Agency
9.01        EBH. the Borrower.  The overall performance of EBH was marred by
its unsatisfactory financial performance. Its self-financing level was, on
average, 25.8% in 1979-81 as against the covenanted minimum of 35% and was
even worse in 1982. For this unsatisfactory performance, EBH was not entirely
to blame because tariff action required the concurrence of other authorities
such as the Community of Interest, and later the Federal Government which
strictly controlled the prices.
9.02        Neretva. the executing agency.  The overall performance of Neretva
in regard to the execution of the project was very good. There was a delay of
about a year and a half in the completion of phase I of the Project as



-13-
compared to the tight implementation .chedule planned at appraisal. But this
delay was due mainly to factors most of which were outside Neretva's control,
such as changes in design during project execucion, relocation of adjoining
highway and railroad, additional grouting works, a shortage of cement. bad
weather etc. All problems were handled as efficiently and as soon as they arose.
One serious problem still continues, namely, seepage of water from the
Salakovac reservoir as a result of the karstic formations and the enroachment
of the groundwater on nearby structures limiting the full potential operation
of Mostar, but these were not entirely unexpected. Immediate measures were
undertaken to try to reduce the leakage and the amount of seepage has been
stabilized at Salakovac. In the handling of all the problems that arose
during project execution, Neretva showed extreme vigilance and professional
judgement.
9.03        At appraisal in 1977, commencement of phase II of the Project was
planned for 1979. This was not done owing to the need for additional studies
of site conditions and a shortage of financial resources, especially foreign
exchange. However, phase II was commenced only after the grant of the Bank
supplementary Loan in 1983. Neretva completed the project satisfactorily,
although with about one year's delay
10.   Performance of Consultan,s
10.01       The performance of the Yugoslav firm of Consultants that was
responsible for the design of the project and the supervision of its execution
was fully satisfactory. It had previous expetrience of similar construction
jobs and fully lived up to the expectations of Neretva, the Borrower and the
Bank in regard to their design and supervision capabilities.
11.   Performance of Contractors
11.01       The main civil works contractors (Yugoslav firms) had initial
difficulties of mobilization because of financial problems. However, their
performance on the whole was more than satisfactory. Construction techniques
were changed to solve unexpected problems encountered during construction.
Parallel activities, where possible, were undertaken to make up for lost time
due to initial mobilization difficulties, and other unforseen problems. The
construction works on the dam and power house were completed in accordance
with final designs. The performance of the other contractors, both local and
foreign, who supplied and erected the mechanical and electrical machinery was
also satisfactory.
12.   Proiect Relationship
12.01       Bank relationship with Federal and Republican Governments, the
Borrower, EBH, and the implementing agency, Neretva on the project has been
good.



-14-
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.01       Both the loan and project agreements were appropriate for
achieving the physical objectives of the project. The loan agreement also was
adequate in providing measures to improve accounting, auditing and corporate
financial planning. With hindsight, where it was weakest was the LRMC pricing
covenant because its implementation required agreement at the power industry
level on a national least-cost investment program which has been unattainable.
The Appraisal Report of the project provided a useful framework for the Bank,
EBH and Neretva for regular review of project implementation. Neretva
provided contributions (Part II) to the Project Completion Report.
Documentation and eata on the project is very adequate and are available in
the Project Files.
14.   Lessons to be Learned
14.01       There are a few lessons to be learned from this lending operation:
(a)   The project demonstrates the danger and uncertainty posed by
karstic conditions when they occur at a hydro plant site.
Thorough site investigations had been conducted before appraisal.
Trial holes had been drilled and water flows studied over a long
period. Groundwater flows were also studied using dye and
radioactive traces. Various methods of investigation were
undertaken, and EBH and Neretva were satisfied that the project
could be undertaken at the site without any adverse and special
risks. Yet, despite grouting and other measures, substantial
seepage occurred and is still continuing, posing a loss of project
benefits. In such situations, more investigations, using the most
modern technology and up to date techniques, are required and
should be an on-going activity during the period of
implementation.
(b)   The project also shows the difficulties for a Borrower to fulfill
financial covenants when the country is faced with serious macro
economic problems. e.g. Tariffs were raised thrice in 1983 (25%
form March 1983, 16% from early December i983 and again 24% from
late December 1983) and yet EBH failed to achieve the covenanted
financial performance because of their inadequacy due to the high
rate of inflation. A similar situation continued in the
subsequent period as well. Financial difficulties could lead to
delays in project implementation and substantial cost over-runs.
(c)   The  project demonstrates also that in Yugoslavia, it is almost
impossible to attain sector-wide objectives through a self-
standing republican project. It also demonstrates the
difficulties in obtaining sector-wide agreement on matters that
affect the investment choices of the republics. These should be



-15-
taken into consideration in the formulation of covenants in the
futura.



- 16 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Bank's Comments on the Borrower's Review
1.01        Neretva, the Executing agency for both phases I and II of the
Project, has submitted to the Bank, in two parts in December 1983 and June
1990, its review of the Project. The review covers mostly the technical and
economic aspects of the Project. The review did not cover the environmental
and institutional development aspects, neither did it provide analysis of
financial performance of EBH.
1.02        Neretva, in its review, expressed its appreciation for the co-
operation of and the good relations with the Bank throughout the entire period
of project preparation and implementation. However, Neretva drew attention of
the Bank to the initial long delays on the part of the Bank in processing
Withdrawal Applications, especially, prior to the introduction of the Special
Account. Neretva suggested also that consideration be given by the Bank, in
the future, to have reporting on projects with three or more years
construction on semi-annual basis instead of the quarterly reporting.
1.03        As comment on Neretva's observations, the main reason for the
initial delays in the processing of withdrawal applications by the Bank was
that Neretva was not submitting the required documentation in full which often
required resubmission by Neretva. There were also delays in receipt of
applications in the Bank due to the mailing system used by Neretva. With
regard to the periodic project reporting, Neretva's suggestion may be suitable
for project that are relatively problem free. The geological problems
encountered on the subject project, in fact, shows that more regular
supervision and reporting on progress on implementation is necessary to ensure
timely identification of potential problems as well as their resolution.
1.04        The contributions of Neretva to the PCR are available in Project
Files.



- 17 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loan
Year of
Loan Title      Purpose        Approval    Status              Comments
Loan 1469-YU   Development      1977        The project        The project only
Second Power   of the                       was completed      partly achieved
Transmisslon   second phase                 in 1983.           its institutlon
Project         of the 380-kV                                  building
transmission                                   objective.  It
network                                        attempted to
encourage the
emergence of a
strong national
coordinating
institution ln the
power subsector,
which was
dlfficult to
achieve in the
decentralized
system of
Yugoslavia. The
PCR was circulated
to the Executive
Director in
January 1985.



- 18 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION, TABLES:
2. Proiect Timetable
2.01 Phase I
Item                  Date Planned        Date Revised  Date Actual
Identification        March 1973               -        September 1973
Preparation           March 1977               -        May 1977
Predppraisal          June 1977                -        July 1977
Appraisal             September 1977                     October 2-26,1977
Loan Negotiation3    March 1978                -        March 13-22,1977
Loan Signature        April 1978               -        May 31, 1978
Loan Effectiveness   August 31, 1978                    November 15, 1978
Loan Closing          June 30, 1983       June 30, 1988 June 30, 1989
Project Completion   June 30, 1982        June 30, 1988 June 30, 1989
2.02        The main issues facing the project at the Issues Paper stage of
phase I and the decisions reached on them were as follows:
(a)   One issue was whether the project description and cost should
include only the first two stations at Grabovica and Salakovac, or
should also include the third station at Mostar (phase II of the
Project). Since the Bosnians planned to construct the Mostar
plant by 1982, it was decided that the project description and
covs should include the Mostar plant (phase II of the Project).
The Bank loan would only finance the first two stations (phase I),
with disbursement for the third unit at the second station to be
conditional on the technical and economic justification of the
project including the third station at Mostar;
(b)   A second issue was the amount of the Bank loan.  On the basis that
the turbine contract would be won by foreign suppliers, the
foreign cost of the project, and hence the amount of the Bank
loan, would be $70 million (the then estimate). This was accepted
by the Decision Committee;
(c)   A third issue was whether the new composite organization
responsible for not only generation and transmission (as the old
composite organization was) but also for distribution had assumed
the rights and obligations of the old composite organization and
would meet the financial covenant entered into by the composite
organization under the Second Transmission Project. It was
decided that the appraisal mission should review the



- 19 -
appropriateness of either (a) zontinuing the covenant under the
Second Transmission Project which applied only to generation and
transmission, or (b) changing the covenant to include distribution
activities, in which case the adequacy of the self-financing
percentage of investment would have to be reviewed;
(d)   Another issue was whether the project financing plan (as presented
to the Bank) which involved assured financing by negotiations
should be accepted and how the interest during construction of the
Bank loan was to be financed. It was decided that the Borrower's
financing plan be accepted and that the Borrower be requested to
inform the Bank by negotiations of the source of financing of the
interest during construction on the Bank loan; and
(e)   Whether the institution building objectives under the Second Power
Transmission Project should be expanded under the proposed
project. It was decided that the objectives under the Second
Power Transmission Project were sufficiently comprehensive to
preclude the need for any enhancement thereof under the proposed
project.
2.03        The following two major changes were made at the Loan Committee
stage and during negotiations:
(a)   The loan amount was raised to $73 million in keeping with the
increase in foreign costs; and
(b)   The level of internal cash generation by EBH was raised to 35X of
investments including distribution investments



- 20 -
Phasgn 1II (Mostar)
2.04 Project Timetab]
Item                     Date Planned                   Date Actual
Identification           March 1973                      September 1973
Preparation              March 1977                     May 1977
Preappraisal             June 1977                       July 1977
Appraisal                September 1977                  January 17-28, 1983
Loan Negotiations        June 13, 1983                  May 31 - June 7, 1983
Board Approval           June 22, 1983                  August 2, 1983
Loan Signature           August 1983                     October 5, 1983
Loan Effectiveness       November 1983                   December 30, 1983
Loan Closing             June 30, 1988                   June 30, 1989
Project Completion       June 30, 1987                   June 30, 1989
2.05        There were three major issues facing the project at the Issues
Paper stage:
(a)   Loan Amount.  One issue was what should be the size of the Bank
loan. The proposal was to grant a Bank loan of $65 million to
cover the full foreign exchange cost of the project. It was
decided to grant a loan of $61 million to cover the revised
foreign exchange costs;
(b)   Local Financing.  The proposal was that as a condition of
negotiations, the Yugoslavs be asked to provide documentary
evidence in support of the financing plan for the project,
including local Bank guarantee of the coverage of any project cost
(both local and foreign) not foreseen at that time. The decision
was to leave the matter to be decided during negotiations; and
(c)   Financial Performance.  EBH had achieved a self-financing level of
an average of only 25.8% in 1979-81 as against the covenanted
minimum of 35%. A lower level of cash generation was expected in
1982 as well. The proposal was that the supplemental loan for the
subject project be processed only if agreement could be reached
with the Yugoslavs on the implementation of tariff increases
sufficient to produce, beginning with the year 1984, a net cash
generation of at least 30% in Bosnia - Herzegovina. The decision
was to leave the matter to be discussed and agreed upon during the
then on-going negotiations for the Third Power Transmission Loan.



PART III
Cumulative Istinated and Actual DisbursMents
3.01  Part I of Proiect (Loan 1561-0-YU)
Bank FY                  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate       13.4  44.8  73.0
Actual                      -    7.4  23.1  34.9  53.2  68.7  69.6  69.8  70.7  71.7  71.7  72.99
Actual as X of
Appraisal Estimate        -   16.5  31.6  47.8  72.9  94.1  95.3  95.6  96.8  98.2  98.2  99.9
Date of Last Disbursement: April 20, 1990
Note: An amount of $14,039.17 remaining unutilized was cancelled on October 31, 1989.



- 22 -
3.02  Part II of Project (Loan 1561-1-YU)
Bank FY                  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate       1.9   17.5  34.9  52.4  61.0
Actual                   0.15  13.00 28.27 44.25 55.70 56.09 55.82
Actual as X of
Appraisal Estimate      7.9   74.3  81.0  84.4  91.3  92.0  91.5
Date of Last Disbursement: April 20, 1990.
Note: An amount of S5,177,205, remaining unutilized out of the loan, was
cancelled on October 31, 1989.



- 23 -
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PROJECT COSTS
4.01 Phase I (Grabovica and Salakovac)
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual
Item              Local   Foreignvn   Total           Local  Foreign  Total
(US $ Millions)
Civil
Works              122.3    9.0        131.31         132.1   12.8    144.9
E & M Equipt        41.8   51.9         93.7           89.9   60.2    150.1
Other               20.2       -        20.2           27.3       -      27.3
Base Cost        184.3   60.9        245.2
Contingency
Price             18.8   12.1         30.9              -      --
Physical          14.2    0.1         14.3              - 
Total      217.3   73.1        2904            ,249.3  73.0     322.3
u Exchange rate as of mid-1978 ($'.00=Din 18.00) used in computing foreign
costs.
Actuals in US dollar terms were about llX higher than the appraisal estimates.
However, in dinars the actuals were 98X higher than the estimate. The
difference is because of the high rate of inflation in the country and the
steep fall in the value of the dinar (average of 102 dinars to US$1.00 in the
second half of CY 1983 as against 18 dinars to the dollar at appraisal).



- 24 -
PROJECT COSTS
4.02 Phase II (Mostar)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Item               Local   Foreign    Total           Local  Foreign  Total
(US $ Millions)
Civil
Works               47.9    21.0        68.9           77.4   15.0       92.4
E & M Equipt          -     41.9        41.9           44.7   30.0       74.7
Other U
(Design, land
purchase,
supervision,
etc)               11.0        -        11.0
Base Cost        58.9    62.9        121.8
Contingency
Price            12.8    11.7         24.5
Physical         4.4      3.6          8.0-
Sub-Total     76.1    78.2         154.3          122.1  45.0      167.1
Front End
Fee & Interest        -     0.2          0.2              -  10.8        10.8
During Constr.      -        -
Total           76.1    78.4        154.5          122.1  55.8      177.9
U The other expenditures such as on design, land purchase, supervision etc.
have been merged under the heads, Civil Works and E & M Equipment, in the
actual figures.
Nte: The actual costs in US dollars ($167.1 million) were about 8.4X more
than the appraisal estimate. However, expressed in dinars, the total costs
were 13.6 times the appraisal estimate. This is mainly because of the high
inflation in the country and the steep fall in the value of the dinar vis-a-
vis the US dollar.



- 25 -
PROJECT FINANCING
4.03 Phase I (Grabovica and Salakovac)
Planned                  Revised            Actual
(Loan 1561-0-YU)
Agreement
US$ Million              US$ Million        US$ Million
World Bank
Expenditure
CateeQries-
Hydro-Mechanical
and Electrical
Associated Services       73.0                     73.0               72.9
Total World Bank          73.0                     73.0               72.9
Co-Financing
Institutions
Borrower Contribution    64.6                      64.6               65.4
Consumer Contribution    16.6                        -                  -
Federal Fund              11.1                       -                  -
Social Reproduction
Funds                     17.4                     70.0               63.7
Privreda Banka
of Sarajevo              36.2                     45.0               44.8
Foreign Credits
and Other Local
Commercial
Banks                     71.3                     75.5             _75.5
Total                   290.2                     328.1             322.3



- 26 -
PROJECT FINANCING
4.04 Phase II (Mostar)
Planned                  Revised           Actual
(Loan 1561-0-YU)
Agreement
US$ Million              US$ Million       US$ Million
World Bank
Expenditure
Categories
Hydro-Mechanical
and Electrical
Equipment,
Construction
Materials and
Equipment for
Civil Works
and Associated
Services                  58.0                     47.92             44.95
Front-End
Fee                        0.152                    0.152              0.152
IDC                         -                      10.72              10.72
Unallocated                2,85                     2.21                -
Total World Bank          61.00                    61.00              55.82
Co-Financing
Institutions
Borrower Contribution    37.53                     10.53               7.26
Consumer Contribution    15.61                     55.0               53.37
Federal Fund               8.22                    12.0               10.98
Commercial Banks          32.14                   _52.0               50.47
Total                    154.5                    190.53            177.9



-27-
Annex A
5.   Project results
Economic Impact
Appraisal                       Actual
Estimate                   (At Final DeveloRment)
Economic
Rate of Return               11.2Z                         10.2X
The economic rate of return waj calculated by comparing the measurable
project costs and benefits. The underlying assumptions used at time of
appraisal and at project completion are given below.
Underlying
Assumotions
1.    The measurable costs comprised (i) the capital cost of the project
consisting of the three power stations; (ii) the associate fixed and variable
operation and maintenance cost; (iii) the incremental costs (marginal costs)
transmission and distribution to supply the output of the project to the final
consumer. At appraisal the estimates of these costs were used. The
incremental costs of transmission and distribution were based on proposed
expansion program of EBH for the period 1978-83. Local costs of project
construction were converted to border value equivalent by a factor of 0.83.
The rest of local costs were converted with a factor of 0.93. Foreign were
assumed to reflect border values. A construction period of five years was
assumed. All costs were expressed in 1978 prices. At project completion,
actual costs have been used and an expenditure stream of thirteen years (1978-
91), but also expressed in 1978 prices to enable the same conversion factors
to be used to convert local costs into border values.
2. The measurable benefits comprised (i) revenue from sale of output of the
project and (ii) consumer contributions to the investment in the project.
At appraisal, the expected output of the project by season and time of day was
applied to the tariff structure as a reflection of the consumers willingness
to pay. Consumer contributions were based on estimates at appraisal. At
completion, the revenue benefits were based on firm and secondary outputs of
the project valued at the average final consumer tariffs at winter peak period
and the summer off-peak period, respectively. The firm energy output of the
project was estimated from simulation studies by Neretva to be about 65% of
the average annual energy capability of the project. Consumer contributions
were based on the actual collections.
3.    Details of computations are available in the Project Files.



- 28 -
6.   Status of Covenants
Deadline for       Extent of
Section                  Subiect                  Compliance         Compliance
Loans 1561-0-YU
and 1561-1-YU
Section 3.02       EBH to submit its
of LA            proposed program for
training and manpower
development to the Bank
for review and comment         Dec. 31, 1978      Complied
before implementation.                            with.
Section 3.04       EBH to supply statistical
of LA            and monitoring information
annually in the project        Annually           Complied
progress reports.                                 with.
Section 3.05       EBH to set special
of LA             electricity supply
agreements for new
consumers so that the
charges will adequately
reflect the estimated
costs of supply and provide
for their adjustment in the   Dec. 31, 1987       Not complied
event of cost increases.                          with.
Section 5.02       EBH to arrange for SAS to
of LA            undertake a pilot audit of
Neretva work organization
in 1978 and a full audit in
the following year by the
special audit group of the
SAS and thereafter extension                      The period
of these audits to other                          of four
power sector organizations                        months was
and to submit audited                             never
consolidated accounts                             observed.
to the Bank within six                            Even after
months of the end of the                          the period
year for 1977 and 1978 and                        was
within four months of the                         extended,
end of each year from 1979.                       there were
(The period of four months                        minor
was later extended to nine                        infractions.
months.)



- 29 -
EBH to have the Special
Account for each fiscal                           Complied
year certified by SAS.                            with.
Section 5.04(b)   EBH to increase the cash                           Consistently
and               generation to 35% of                              failed to
Section 5.06       investment including                              reach the
of LA              distribution and to exchange                      covenanted
views with the Bank before                        35% cash
making any modification to                        generation
the investment program in                         during
excess of 1 billion dinars.                       1979-83.
(Beginning with 1984, the                         Even after
cash generation covenant was                      the Covenant
changed to one requiring                          was changed,
adjustment of electricity                         EBH failed
tariffs to economic costs.)                       failed to
comply.
Section 5.08       EBH to furnish, on their
of LA            completion, the results of
the study of the internal
financial relationship
between the various
generation, transmission and                      Complied
distribution organizations.                       with.
Section 2.02(b)   Neretva to establish a panel
of PA            of experts,independent of the
designers of the project, to
familiarize themselves with
the design and advise in the
event of any unforeseen
problems arising during                           Complied
construction.                                     with.
Section 3.03(d)   Neretva to arrange periodic
of PA             inspections of the project
hydro works, including the
dam in accordance with
appropriate engineering                           Complied
Practice.                                         with.
The following were conditions of effectiveness:
Section 7.01
of LA             (a)   completion of the technical
designs and estimates for
Mostar;



- 30 -
(b)   establishment of the panel
of independent experts
whose members and terms
and conditions should be
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)   submission to the Bank,
Privredna Bank's guarantee
to provide the balance of
funds needed by Neretva for
phase I of the Project,
including cost over-runs
and interest during
construction; and
(d)   confirmation that                           All the
Privredna Bank guarantees                   conditions
to provide such funds as                    were
EBH is unable to secure                     complied
and are needed by Neretva                   with before
for phase II of the                         the loan
Project (relevant                           was declared
agreements to be completed                  effective
by June 30, 1979).                          on November
15, 1978.



- 31 -
ATTACHMENT
Increase in Electricity Rates in Bosina - Hercegovina
1.          The cash generation covenant under The Second Power Transmission
Project (Loan 1469-YU) was replaced by the LRMC covenant in October 1983 under
the Third Power Transmission Project (Loan 2338-YU). The LMRC was never
estimated and the covenant has been observed in default by the power entities
in the country due to lack of agreement on a national least cost investment
program which would have served as basis of LRMC estimation. Mainly to
improve financial position of the power entities, price increases continued to
be made. However, as inflation began to accelerate, the price increases began
to lag behind the inflation. Between 1983 and 1985, electricity prices were
increased by a total of 130% compared to the rise in the wholesale price index
of industrial products of about 266%. In March 1986, the Common Elements (CE)
basis of setting electricity prices was introduced. The CE sets target prices
based on historical financial costs of electricity supply and some elements of
electricity prices in international exchanges. The calculated target price
for EBH was Din 2.07/kWh (US cents 9/kWh). Periodic adjustments in
electricity prices continued but were always behind inflation which had risen
to unprecedented levels. As of January 1989, the average electricity price
was only 41% of the CE target. In 1989, a total increase of about 3,200% was
made in electricity prices compared to the rise in the wholesale index price
of industrial products of about 2,700% ii. the same period. In September 1989,
a yet another basis of electricity pricing-the so-called Common Criteria (CC)-
was introduced. The CC defines a price ceiling based on the average of
electricity prices in 5 Western european countries and prices in international
electricity exchanges. Currently, the ceiling price is about Din 2.33/kWh (US
cents 10/kWh)*. The current average price of EBH is Din 1.606/kWh (US cents
7/kWh), which is about 70% of the CC ceiling price.
2.          The adjustments in electricity prices since October 1983 through
April 1991 are given below. All increases apply to winter and summer prices.
EBH continues to face serious financial difficulties mainly because some the
major electricity customers, especially industry, are unable to meet their
electricity bills. The fundamental problem is linked with the weakness of the
economy.
1983
(i)    16% increase in November;
(ii)   50 para/kWh increase in all kilowatt-hour rates (equivalent to
about a 25% increase in the average revenue per kilowatt-hour);
*Exchange rate: 1US$ - 23Din



- 32 -
ATTACHHENT
liA
(i)    differential increases in various RAPs averaging about 30%
(ranging from 31.8% to 28.8%) effective October 1, 1984;
(ii)   33.5% in December;
19 35
(i)    20% in July;
1986
(i)    differential increase in various RAPs averaging 16% in February;
(ii)   17% in April;
(iii)  differential increase in various RAPs averaging 39.1%;
(iv)   26% in November;
1987
(i)    12% in January;
(ii)   16.9% in April.
(iii)  39.6% in August
(iv)   69.4% in November
(i)    31.4% in June
(ii)   39.95% in August
(iii)  29.3% in November
1989
Mi)    48% in February
(ii)   79% in April
(iii)  58.9% in May
(iv)   54.9% in July
(v)    49% in August
(vi)   69% in October
(vii)  100.2% in December.



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT
1990
(i)    27.5% in April
(ii)   24% in August
(iii)  8% in December.
(i)    25.9% in February
(ii)   28.7% in April.



- 34 -
PART IIX
7.    MigJions
Stage of           Month       No. of   Days in                      Project       Type of
Proiect Cycle        Year      Persons  Field    SDecializatl2n'  Performann_  Pr2blems2
Identifcation      May 1977      2       10        PEGR (2)
Appraisal          Oct 1977      3       23        PEGR, FNA,
MAA (part-time)
Appraisal          Jan 1983      2       12        PEGR,FNA
(Stage II)
supervision
I                  Apr 1979    2         2         PEGR, FNA         1             0
II                 Nov 1979    1         1         PEGR              2             NA
III                May 1980    1         3         PEGR              1             NA
IV                 Dec 1980    1         11        PEGR              2              T
V                  Jun - Jul
1982      3         6        PEGR, FNA (2)    1               T
J./PEGR - Power Engineer; FNA - Financial Analyst; ECN - Economist; MAA -
Management; ES - Environmental Specialist; GLG - Geologist, PREGR -
Procurement Engineer.
2/T - Technical, F - Financial; 0 - Other



