Document. of
The World Bank
aILL                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2242a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MIDDLE NERETVA HYDRO POWER PROJECT
April 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                           Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1=                                                    Din. 18.00
Din. 1                            =                     US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                               US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                           US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973,
as of December 31, 1977, the rate was Din. 18.4452 = $1.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
LDR               -                    Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SFRY                                   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SAS                                   Social Accounting Service
JUGEL             -                    Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
BOAL              -                    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
WOAL               -                  Work Organization of Associated Labor
COAL              -                    Composite Organization of Associated Labor
EBH               -                    Composite Organization Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine-Sarajevo
Neretva            -                   Work Organization Hidroelektrane na
Neretvi
kW                -                    1 kilowatt or 1,000 watts
MW                 -                   1 megawatt or 1,000 kw
GW                -                    1 gigawatt or  1,000,000 kW
kWh                -                   1 kilowatt hour or 1,000 watt hours
GWh                _                   1 gigawatt hour or 1,000,000 kWh
kV                 -                   1 kilovolt or 1,000 volts
kVA                -                   1 kilovolt ampere or 1,000 volt amperes
MVA                -                   1 megavolt ampere or 1,000kVA
/a                -                    per annum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA - Middle Neretva Hydro Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine-Sarajevo (EBH); the
organization responsible for coordination of the electric
power sector in the republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Guarantor:     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiary:   Hidroelektrane na Neretvi; the organization responsible for
construction of the project.
Amount:        US$73 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:         Amortization in 15 years, including a three year grace period,
with interest at 7.5 percent.
Relending
Terms:         The proceeds of the loan would be made available to the
beneficiary on the same terms as the Bank loan.
Project
Description:   The project is part of a long range plan to develop the Neretva
River in thie Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, one of the repub-
lics of Yugoslavia most endowed with hydro power potential and
one of the country's major energy producers for the national
interconnected transmission network, but one of the econo-
mically least developed republics. The proposed loan is aimed
at assisting the economic development of the republic, as well
as the development of Yugoslavia's hydro resources (Yugoslavia's
second largest energy source next to coal and lignite). The
project is designed to meet the need for peaking capacity at
least cost and improve the thermal/hydro plant mix within
the republic. The proposed.borrower for this loan, EBH, the
republic apex power sector organization, is a borrower under
the Bank's First and Second Power Transmission Loans (Loan
Numbers 836-YU and 1469-YU) and the institution-building
efforts under these loans would be reinforced through this
proposed loan.
The project consists of three concrete gravity dams (Grabovica,
Salakovac, and Mostar) in continuous cascade on the Neretva
river and their associated power stations and transmission
links. The installed capacities would be 116 MW, 205 MW, and
65 MW, respectively. Secondary benefits are expected primarily
for agriculture through the eventual provision of irrigation.
The project faces no special risks, although timely execution
of the project will depend on the expeditious resolution of any
problem which might arise during construction from unforeseen
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
geological conditions (for which an advisory panel is to be
appointed) and the ability of the borrower to obtain remaining
project financing without undue delays.
Estimated
Cost                                                    ------US$ Millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
Grabovica and Salakovac (Phase I)
Civil Works                       122.3      9.0      131.3
Electrical and Mechanical
Equipment                        41.8    51.9        93.7
Other /a                            20.2     -         20.2
Base Cost                         184.3    60.9       245.2
Contingencies
Price                            18.8    12.1        30.9
Physical                         14.2      0.1       14.3
Subtotal                     217.3    73.1      290.4
Mostar (Phase II)
Civil Works                        62.1      2.0       64.1
Electrical and Mechanical
Equipment                         8.4      7.4       15.8
Other                                5.3      -         5.3
Base Cost                          75.8      9.4       85.2
Contingencies
Price                            17.4      1.1       18.5
Physical                          8.5       -         8.5
Subtotal                     101.7    10.5      112.2
TOTAL                             319.0    83.6       402.6
/a  Includes:  design, supervision, land purchase, compensation,
legal and managemenr overheads.



- iii -
Financing
Plan                                              US$ Millions       Percent
Internal Sources
Neretva                            87             22
Surcharges Contributed
from EBH Pooled Funds            17               4
IBRD Loan                               73              18
Local Loans
Privredna Banka Sarajevo          36               9
Loans; from Industry               45              11
Federal Fund for LDRs              11              3
Foreign Credits and other
Local Bank Loans                     134             33
403            100
Estimated
Disbursements:                          -----US$ Millions-----
Bank FY             1979     1980      1981
Annual               13.4     31.4      28.2
Cumulative           13.4     44.8      73.0
Rate of
Return :       At least 11 percent.
Appraisal
Report   :    Report No. 1885a-YU
Date:  April 14, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AN) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE WITH
THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL
]REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine (EBH), with the guarantee
of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of
US$73.0 million to help finance the foreign exchange costs of a hydro-
electric power project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. The proceeds
of the loan would be made available to Hidroelektrane na Neretvi (Neretva),
the organization entrusted with the construction of the power facilities,
on the same terms as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976; its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development"' (1615a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that in the Report and Recommen-
dation of the President for the Fifth Railway Project (Report No. P-2175a-
YU) dated March 10, 1978.



- 2 -
4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5 employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income fall-
ing generally from North to South--is one of the most important development
issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia



and Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incames ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzego-4na, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were rmade available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent: being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure. A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 2/ is highly regionalized rangWing from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
1/   In Yugoslav definition, unemployment is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.
2/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



-4-
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975.  The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely affected
by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil producing coun-
tries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to expand rapidly
in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in exports
to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity exports declined
by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism
increased marginally. However, a larger contraction of imports and an
improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the current account
deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year. Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and



-5-
balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewl:at higher
inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974. The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is Ealling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the viable hydropower potential remaining to be
developed and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities
are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead,
zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.



- 6 -
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the



form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to level at about 17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 3/
18.       The Bank has made 47 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,808
million. Of this amount, approximately 47 percent (US$856.4 million) has been
for 17 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
1/   "Social Compacts" regulate broader economic issues or policies and are
concluded among Socio-Political Communities and also involving Economic
Chambers and Associations of Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.
3/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for a
Fifth Railway Project (Report No. P-2175a-YU) of March 10, 1978.



-8
totalling US$206 million (about 11 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Ten loans
amounting to US$200 million (about 11 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$154 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a



-9-
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctua,tions.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past sevesral years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
upcoming proposed third industrial credit project, as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for irrigation,
water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agriculural
development, emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs.
Recently approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway
Project as well as the Second Power Transmisson Project approved in 1977, will
both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the MEetohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 147,7-YU, respectively), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing



- 10 -
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosopohy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
But the Bank sees it important to continue exerting its influence in shaping
the policy framework and having further beneficial impact on fostering coordi-
nation, particularly in the power and transport sectors where significant
progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway Project
(Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of road-user
charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essential for
developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework for the
transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 1469-YU
approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmission sys-
tem, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will considerably
extend the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of further
progress in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in sec-
tor coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantiaA additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.



- II -
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugosla,via's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in 1976 and is projected
to increase to about 5 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE ENERLGY SECTOR AND ELECTRIC POWER SUB-SECTOR
29.       Yugoslavia's 19715-80 Five Year Plan which addresses the need for
the restructuring of the economy (see paragraphs 12 and 13), places the
highest priority on the development of the energy sector. Within the sector,
major emphasis is on the e:Lectric power sub-sector. The basic tenets of the
country's energy policy may be summarized as maximum economic development of
domestic natural resources (particularly coal) and its integration in the
development of the power sector; the provision of secure long-term supplies
of petroleum and natural gas; and improvement of the efficiency of energy
utilization.
30.       The organization of both the energy sector and the electric power
sub-sector is complex, reflecting the overall decentralization of economic
management in Yugoslavia and the consequent fragmentation of responsibilities
among many organizations. As a response to the problems which have been
encountered in coordinating the activities arising from this complexity in
the electric power sub-sector (comprising over 200 basic organizations), new
methods of coordination in planning and implementation have been devised.
These institutional arrangements are discussed below (paragraphs 39-41) and in
large part reflect the findings of both the Bank energy sector mission which
visited Yugoslavia in late 1975 and the appraisal missions for the last two
power projects.
The Energy Sector
31.       Since 1966, the demand for primary energy has been growing at an
average annual rate of about 8 percent. Hydrocarbons showed the highest growth
rates (oil, 16 percent per annum and gas, 18 percent per annum) because of their
relative cheapness (over most of the period) and ease of usage. Electricity,
both hydro-power and thermal power,thas also experienced accelerated rates of
growth averaging about 11 percent per annum. Yugoslavia has substantial
primary energy resources consisting of low grade coal, lignite deposits,
hydro-power potential, and some liquid hydro-carbons (natural gas and oil).
32.       In keeping with the overall decentralization of economic management,
the role of the Federal Government in the planning and operation of the sector
is increasingly circumscribed. Its main interventions in the sector are
limited to control of prices of fuels and electricity and to formulation of
broad guidelines for the energy policy of the country. Detailed plans as to
how such energy policy should be implemented are left to the initiative of
the republics and individual enterprises. The individual enterprises in



- 12 -
the republics and autonomous provinces are pivotal in that it is they who
formulate and implement development plans. The Chambers of Economy, non-
governmental institutions representing all economic enterprises, play a
coordinating and consultative role and "Communities of Interest", which are
groupings of producers and users, play a regulatory role in sectors such as
the power sector where market forces do not function.
33.       The economic plan for 1976-80 forecasts primary energy requirements
to grow at about 9 percent per annum, which in comparison to past trends is
slightly high, but the main objectives of the Yugoslav energy policies appear
reasonable and attainable. They aim to reduce imports of oil, increase coal
production mostly for use in power generation and more rapidly to develop the
hydro power potential, the development of which has been lagging. In addition,
energy pricing policy is aimed at more efficient allocation of energy resources.
The Federal Government intends to gradually restructure prices of domestic
energy resources to reflect by 1980 international prices. However, the
successful achievement of these objectives within the Yugoslav decentralized
economic decision-making system depends on strengthening the overall framework
to ensure coordination within and between the energy sub-sectors and between
the energy sector and other sectors of the economy. The new procedures for
self-management planning (see paragraph 16) have been designed to bring about
more such coordination.
Electric Power Sub-sector
34.       Consumption.  The average annual production and consumption of elec-
tricity in Yugoslavia increased by 10 percent between 1966 and 1976. However,
at the level of the republics, the growth rate of consumption of electricity
experienced wide variations. For example, although national average per capita
consumption increased 2.6 times between 1966 to 1976 (from 700 kWh to 1,860
kWh), the disparities between regions are still considerable: 1,440 kWh in
Bosnia-Herzegovina compared to 3,716 kWh in Slovenia. This primarily reflects
the differences in the economic development of the regions. The proportion of
the population having access to electricity has increased substantially (from
55 percent in 1960 to over 94 percent in 1976) and this together with rising
standards of living is reflected in the changing market shares of the customer
classes; the share of industry dropped from 64 percent in 1965 to 54 percent
in 1976, while the share of households increased from 22 percent in 1965 to
31 percent in 1976.
35.       Generation.  In 1976, installed capacity and production were ap-
proximately 10,000 MW and 43,000 GWh, respectively, and the proportions of
electricity generated hydraulically and thermally were about equal. In the
future, thermal generation utilizing the country's vast coal resources is
expected to predominate. By the end of 1982, about 7,000 MW of thermal plant
(1976: 4,500 MW), and 2,400 MW of hydro-plant (1976: 5,100 MW), including
the proposed project, would be added. Wide disparities in the total capacity
added since 1955 exist among republics ranging from 43 percent installed in
Serbia to 3 percent in Montenegro. These disparities essentially reflect the
different energy resource endowments of the regions.



- 13 -
36.       Forecast energy contributions (exports to other republics) or deficits
(imports from other republ:Lcs) in the interconnected transmission pool indicate
the dependence of most republics on the two republics most richly endowed with
primary energy resources (hydropower and soft-coal reserves), namely Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Serbia (including the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and
Kosovo). Sales of the interconnected system were assumed to grow at 11.5 per-
cent in 1977, and 12 percent in 1978, with a gradual decline to an 8 percent
rate of growth by 1982. The average growth rate would be 10 percent, i.e.
equal to the average 1971-76 growth rate, and the estimated 1982 sales (70,300
GWh) would be about 90% above those in 1976 (37,300 GWh). Maximum demand is
expected to grow at an average rate of 11 percent per annum between 1976 and
1982.
37.       Since 1973 Yugoslavia's power deficits have been in the order of
700 GWh to 1,100 GWh/a (some 2 to 3.5 percent of overall power requirements).
In 1976, power imports met about 3 percent of Yugoslavia's total electricity
requirements. Power exchanges with neighboring countries (12 connections of
which one is at 380 kV) have been small due to the limited transport capaci-
ties and dispatch constraints. The forecast of capacities and energy balances
for the next five years shows that national energy requirements could be met
throughout the period provided that water availability is about average. This
latter proviso is critical given the type of hydro/thermal mix that Yugoslavia
has, where low winter water flows reduce hydro capacity by some 20 to 40 per-
cent. The main problem, therefore, is expected to be the system's ability to
meet peak demands rather than energy requirements.
38.       Transmission.  The national network's reliability, stability and
voltage conditions are not yet completely satisfactory because several essen-
tial lines below a voltage level of 380-kV are rapidly reaching their rated
capacity. In addition, the republics' dispatch facilities are frequently
inadequate for the operation of the networks; this is particularly true when
emergency conditions prevail. However, the transmission system has expanded
and is expected to expand in parallel with generating capacity from about
16,847 km (110-kV, 220-kV, 380-kV lines) in 1976 to about 23,872 km in 1982.
These needs for an expanded and reliable national power grid, as well as
improved system dispatching are being addressed under the First and
the Second Power Transmission Loans (No. 836-YU and No. 1469-YU).
39.       Organization.  As in the case of the rest of the energy sector, in-
creasing decentralization of Yugoslavia's economy has fragmented the sub-sector
into autonomous organizations. This caused a retardation in the construction
of new generating facilities in the late 1960's and early 1970's and a dete-
rioration in the overall reliability of the system. The sub-sector has been
in the process of reorganization since 1970, with the object of improving
coordination. Legal changes permitting this reorganization were formalized
in the 1974 Constitution. As a result, construction of electric plant has
accelerated again.



- 14 -
40.       The organization of the power industry follows the Yugoslav prin-
ciple of workers' self-management. The basic decision-making units are called
"Basic Organizations of Associated Labor" (BOAL) (see paragraph 5). In
principle, these are the smallest technically identifiable units that can
function independently. A single power plant is typically operated by a BOAL.
BOALs can be integrated into "Work Organizations of Associated Labor" (WOAL),
through revocable self-management agreements and may include BOALs' concerned
with generating plants as well as transmission, research and development and
other supporting services. Distribution entities have been organized sepa-
rately but along similar lines. However, the generation, transmission and
distribution WOALs in each republic have recently begun to organize themselves
into single organizations referred to as "Composite Organizations of Associated
Labor" (COAL) which are the apex organizations in each republic.
41.       All the existing generation, transmission and distribution organi-
zations are members of the national Union of the Yugoslav Electric Power
Industry (JUGEL). While JUGEL coordinates the major aspects of power gener-
ation, transmission and distribution in the country, it has no executive power
over its member organizations. The power organizations and their customers
form the power sector's "Communities of Interest" which coordinate sectoral
activities with the generation, transmission and distribution organizations
at the BOAL level and at the level of the republic (COAL). They are responsi-
ble for determining long-term development programs and their financing,
deciding also on the consumers' financial contributions to system expansion
and the level and structure of the tariffs. The Communities are governed by
an assembly in which the power organizations and the consumers have equal
representation. If the Communties fail to achieve an agreement on matters
within their purview, matters are turned over to the republic assembly for
final resolution. The Communities of Interest are the newest organizational
form emanating from the new 1974 constitution and a number of them are still
in the formative stage.
42.       Financing Electric Power Development.  Until 1962 the Federal Govern-
ment provided the bulk of electric power development funds through long-term,
low-interest loans. Since then the enterprises and consumers, and to a lesser
extent the republics and local governments, have provided an increasing share
of investment funds for new plant construction. After January 1, 1971, Federal
funds for power investments were completely abolished as a part of the general
move towards decentralization in the economy and the power enterprises, which
had hitherto maintained low tariff rates and achieved limited internal cash
generation, were unable to finance expansion when these low cost long-term
credits were no longer available. Consequently, construction of new power
plants lagged. Since the early 1970's, tariff rates have been increasing and
cash generation has been steadily improving. The most recent increase in bulk
(and retail) tariffs was introduced in the republics in mid-1977. Generally,
the increases have been in line with increases in the cost of living index.
In addition, other measures have been introduced to assist financing of
investments in the power sector during the period 1976 through 1980 (see
paragraph 43 below). In accordance with an interrepublic agreement (social
compact), enterprises are expected to generate funds from their own resources
(i.e. electricity sales and other measures) equivalent to at least 30 percent



- 15 -
of the funds required for new investment. The balance of financing is expected
to come from foreign loans (development assistance and commercial and supplier
credits), local bank loans and special resources raised by republic and local
governments.
43.       The present bulk supply tariff structure, which applies throughout
the country, was introduced in 1965. Maximum permitted percentage increases,
reached through agreements among the republics, are promulgated by the Federal
Government. Any republic may apply reduced rates through its communities of
interest but in practice the maximum rates are usually employed. Because rate
increases have been across the board, there are indications that the structure
and rates do not reflect the present pattern of consumer demand and costs of
supply. The republics also instituted various measures for collecting supple-
mentary funds for their investment in system expansion. These measures are
in the form of either repayable loans (e.g. contributions from industry, BOALs
and WOALs) or non-repayable levies (e.g. connection charges, metering charges
and special surcharges). Although such contributions are not intended as
permanent features, but as temporary expedients to provide funds during the
present intensive investment period, they are expected to continue for many
years in view of Yugoslavia's large investment plans for power, unless the
tariff structure and rates are revised to fully reflect costs of supply and
financial requirements. A tariff study, which includes at the Bank's request,
an analysis of the divergence between the existing and marginal cost based
rate structure is being conducted for all republics by the Croatian Electricity
Institute in Zagreb under JUGEL's supervision. The results of this study are
expected to be submitted by JUGEL to the Bank for review by June 30, 1978 and
would form the basis of aLn ongoing dialogue on this issue.
44.       Future Development:  Policies and Problems.  Electric power is a
high priority sub-sector in the 1976-80 national development plan. Its sectoral
objective is to meet Yugoslavia's power requirements, to the extent possible,
from indigenous resources through coordinated development and financing. The
cost of the 1976-82 development program for generation and transmission would
be about US$12.2 billion or an average annual expenditure of approximately
US$1.7 billion. The program appears ambitious and, although investments in
power have been stepped tup considerably (about US$600 million in 1975 and about
double this amount in 1976), financial constraints may cause some delays. The
extent, and effect, of these constraints cannot be estimated with any degree
of certainty.
The Electric Power Sub-sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina
45.       The installed plant in Bosnia-Herzegovina in 1977 was 1,618 MW which
represented 15 percent of Yugoslavia's total installed capacity in that year,
providing 20 percent of the country's generation, including exports to Slovenia
and Croatia from plants jointly owned with these republics. Electricity sales
in Bosnia-Herzegovina have been growing in recent years at about 12 percent per
annum. As in Yugoslavia as a whole, the share of domestic consumers in total
sales has increased (from 12 percent in 1967 to 21 percent in 1976), whilst
industry's share has decreased (from 22 percent to 19 percent). About 30



- 16 -
percent of the republic's electricity sales in 1976 were exported to other
regions within Yugoslavia. Future sales are expected to grow, on average, at
about 10 percent per annum over the next five years; the establishment of an
aluminum smelter in Bosnia-Herzegovina which is expected to reach full output
by the end of 1980 may significantly enhance the growth rate in the latter
part of this period. The power development program (1977-82) for Bosnia-
Herzegovina is expected to cost about US$2.2 billion. About 60 percent of
the program is for the construction of generation plant while about 40 per-
cent is for transmission and distribution expansion. The generation program
consists of 11 projects of which six are thermal plants and five are hydro.
Bank's Experience in Lending for Power
46.       The Bank has made four loans for power in Yugoslavia.  The first
(Loan No. 277-YU of February 23, 1961) and second (Loan No. 318-YU of July 11,
1962) loans, each for US$30 million, were made, respectively for the 266-MW
Senj Hydro Plant and 360-MW Bajina Basta Hydro Plant both of which were com-
pleted in 1969 and are operating satisfactorily. The third loan (Loan No.
836-YU) of US$75 million was made in 1972 for the first phase of the 380 kV
interconnected transmission system which is nearing completion and a loan of
US$80 million (Loan No. 1469-YU) was made in 1977 for the second phase. A
Bank loan of US$70 million for the 450-MW Buk Bijela hydro power station in
Bosnia-Herzegovina was terminated in February 1976 for failure to become
effective after the Federal Government advised the Bank that ratification of
the Guarantee Agreement was not possible until an issue that had arisen sub-
sequent to appraisal and approval by the Executive Directors as to the use of
Drina Basin waters (where the plant was to be located) had been studied and
resolved. This issue is still not settled and the Buk Bijela project has for
the time being been deleted from the Bosnia-Herzegovina investment program.
47.       With regard to the Bank's first power transmission project (Loan
No. 836-YU) in 1972, construction is progressing more slowly than anticipated,
but is expected to be completed by mid-1978, about 1 1/2 years later than
appraisal estimates. The physical execution of the project has been satis-
factory. The final cost of the project is expected to be approximately US$415
million as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$225 million; the large
difference is due to sharp increases in both equipment prices and labor costs
during the construction period which spanned the sharp inflationary spiral of
the mid-1970's. These cost overruns are being covered through loans secured
from the Federal Republic of Germany, some local loans and the borrowers'
internal funds. As stated in my Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors on the Second Power Transmission Project (Report
No. P-2018a-YU, dated June 13, 1977; R77-177) the institutional objectives
of that transmission loan, however, have not been fully attained. Appointment
of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recommen-
dations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the Borrowers
with the objective of beginning implementation of the recommendations by mid-
1978. Despite the agreement on comprehensive coordination between JUGEL and
the republics, JUGEL has not been able to perform all of its functions. This
is mainly attributable to JUGEL's lack of authority to act on behalf of the



- 17 -
borrowers. Under the Second Power Transmission Loan specific measures are
being taken to redress some of these deficiencies by strengthening JUGEL's
role and its staff.
48.       In summary, the main difficulties encountered in Yugoslavia's power
sub-sector have been institutional.  Following the constitutionai changes of
1974, some measure of integration is being reintroduced principally at the
republican level. The Bank's consistent encouragement of more effective
coordination in the power sub-sector may have assisted in the movement towards
integration. The second :Loan for power transmission seeks to continue the
impetus for strengthening coordination in system planning, financing and
operation of the sub-sector, both at the republican and federal levels. The
proposed loan to Bosnia-Herzegovina would provide an opportunity for the Bank
to pursue more intensively its institution building efforts at the republican
level.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The project is part of a long range plan to develop the Neretva river
in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, one of the republics of Yugoslavia most
endowed with hydropower potential and one of the country's major energy pro-
ducers for the national interconnected transmission network, but also one of
the economically least developed republics. The proposed loan is aimed at
assisting the economic development of the republic, as well as the development
of Yugoslavia's hydro resources (Yugoslavia's second largest energy source
next to coal and lignite), which has been lagging principally because of diffi-
culties in obtaining finance due to the preponderance of civil works costs
for which commercial financing is more difficult to obtain than is the case
for thermal plant. The feasibility studies and design for this project were
prepared by the work organization of associated labor, Hidroelektrane na
Neretvi (Neretva), the proposed executing agency and beneficiary, with the
assistance of several Yug;oslav consulting firms. The project was first
reviewed by the Bank in 1974 in the context of 12 projects submitted to the
Bank by the various repub,lics from which four, including this project, were
selected for close study. Following the inability of Bosnia-Herzegovina to
proceed with the Buk Bijela project (see paragraph 46), the Yugoslav authori-
ties requested the Bank to review alternative schemes. A Bank mission visited
Yugoslavia in May 1977 to identify a suitable power project in one of the less
developed republics and this project was selected for appraisal in October
1977. Negotiations were held in March 1978 in Washington. The Yugoslav
delegation was led by Mr. Abdulah Mutapcic, Member of the Executive Council of
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
"Middle Neretva Hydro Project", Report No. 1885a-YU, dated April 14, 1978
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 18 -
51.       The project is designed to meet the need for peaking capacity
and to contribute to-Yugoslavia's overall energy needs at least cost through
the generation of electricity for the national interconnected transmission
network. The project would continue to foster coordination (supported by our
two power transmission projects) between Bosnia-Herzegovina and the other
republics and autonomous provinces, through JUGEL, particularly in view of
JUGEL's role as sector coordinator and dispatch agency for the interconnected
transmission network to which Bosnia-Herzegovina is a net exporter of electric-
ity. As a net exporter of power (Bosnia-Herzegovina exports have accounted
for about 6 percent of Yugoslavia's total generation in recent years), Bosnia-
Herzegovina would improve the transfer of power from the production centers to
the load centers in order to meet Yugoslavia's power requirements.
52.       The project would strengthen coordination among the constituent
organizations within Bosnia-Herzegovina's power sector composite organization
(Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine or EBH) which is the proposed borrower
under this loan. It would also enable the Bank to pursue more closely the
implementation of the consultant's recommendations under the studies already
undertaken as part of the First Power Transmission Project and those being
initiated under the Second Power Transmission Project. These studies are
aimed at establishing improved procedures for the efficient operation and
management of the Bosnia-Herzegovina power system within the context of the
Yugoslav interconnected system, as well as improving EBH's economic and
financial planning and its forecasting and budgeting procedures.
53.       Description.  The project consists of three dams (Grabovica,
Salakovac, and Mostar: see Map) and their associated power stations and trans-
mission links. The project would be executed in two phases; Phase I comprising
the Grabovica and Salakovac schemes and Phase II comprising the Mostar scheme.
The power capacities of the three stations would be 116 MW, 205 MW and 65 MW,
respectively. By 1982 when all three stations are expected to be commissioned,
their aggregate power capacity (386 MW) would satisfy approximately 16 percent
of Bosnia-Herzegovina's electric power demand and nine percent of its energy
demand. The three concrete gravity dams would impound the river waters in
continuous cascade; the lower reservoir at Mostar would regulate the water
discharge from the upper two schemes which would be operated primarily during
periods of peak load. The Salakovac dam is to be equipped with a take-off
conduit allowing 4m3/s of water to be supplied to the area north of Mostar
for eventual irrigation of some 2,000 ha and for water supply purposes.
Although the Grabovica and Salakovac developments, without the lower dam and
reservoir at Mostar, can be justified independently at lower electrical power
capacities, the Mostar scheme is included in this project because it would be
needed for downstream river regulation thus assuring efficient utilization of
the Grabovica and Salakovac developments and consequently for the most economic
development of this stretch of the river. Accordingly, the completion of firm
engineering plans supported by geological studies and updated capital cost
estimates for the Mostar station would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(d)). Work at Mostar would not be



- 19 -
commenced until 1979 and final designs are still in course of preparation.
Financing for the Nostar scheme, the foreign costs of which are about 9 per-
cent of its total cost, w,ould be arranged from sources other than the Bank.
Project Implementation
54.       Institutional Arrangements.  EBH the proposed borrower, was ori-
ginally established in 1973 as a work organization (WOAL) responsible for
coordinating the power development and operations of the republic's generation
and transmission enterprises. In 1977, the power sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina
was reorganized, distribution enterprises were incorporated into EBH and now
EBH coordinates the operation of all the republic's 13 work organizations for
generation, transmission and distribution. No major changes in staffing or
management of EBH have taken place under the latest reorganization. The main
responsibilities of EBH are:  (i) preparation of major development 1 rograms;
(ii) pooling of capital investment funds; (iii) determination of annual and
long-term power balances; (iv) collection and distribution of revenues for
bulk sales; (v) recommendation to the republic's power sector community of
interest on electricity rates for the purchase and sale of power; and (vi)
coordination with JUGEL in matters related to Yugoslavia's interconnectd
transmission network. Under the new EBH composite organization, plans are
being made to establish aLn internal bank and institute for studies and research.
The purpose of the internal bank is to keep account of the pooled funds, espe-
cially business funds and depreciation, of EBH's associated organizations.
The internal bank will also manage the pooled funds arising from surcharges on
consumers and taxes on industry which are distributed to investor organizations
for new construction either as contributions or loans.
55.       As of mid-1977, the total staff of EBH's constituent organizations
was 9,800. Training of personnel is an ongoing activity and is coordinated
by EBH. It has agreed to submit (by December 31, 1978) its subsequent program
for training and manpower development to the Bank, for review and comment
before implementation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The purpose of such
review would be to ensure that the program would provide sufficient numbers of
adequately qualified and trained staff for the new power plants and facilities
being constructed under the current five-year plan. It is expected that EBH's
implementation of the recommendations of the studies (see paragraph 52) on the
operation and management of the power sector would be phased over at least
five years.
56.       In view of EBH's status as the composite organization for power
development in the republic and its role as one of the borrowers under both
the First and Second Power Transmission Loans, EBH was selected as the borrower
for this proposed Bank loan. However, the physical construction of the project
would be executed by one of EBH's constituent work organizations, Hidroelektrane
na Neretvi (Neretva) and it would enter into a Project Agreement with the
Bank. EBH and Neretva have agreed that the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
made available to Neretva under arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, providing
inter alia, that the proceeds would be made available on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)).



- 20 -
57.       Neretva is a constituent work organization (WOAL) of EBH and oper-
ates and maintains two hydro plants (Rama and Jablanica) which were built
on the Neretva river upstream from the proposed project site circa 1948.
Neretva employs about 440 workers. Its management and staff are experienced
and well qualified. It has its own self-management agreement and statutes.
The output from its two existing plants is sold through EBH at the agreed
prices established in the self-management agreement between the BOALs and
WOALs within EBH.
58.       Implementation:  Civil works construction, not proposed for financ-
ing under the proposed loan, commenced in 1977 on preliminary works and diver-
sion tunnels for Phase I and is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
is expected to be completed by mid-1981 when Grabovica and Salakovac stations
would be expected to become fully operational. Phase II at Mostar would be
expected to be completed and operational by mid-1982. Although extensive
geological investigations have been made of the dam sites and reservoir area,
there remain inherent risks associated with the type of geological conditions
(karstic) which prevail. Consequently, a panel of independent experts would
be appointed prior to the effectiveness of the proposed loan, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to advise in the event of major unforeseen
problems arising during project execution (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02(b)
and 7.01(e)). In addition, periodic inspections of the hydroworks, including
the dams, would be undertaken in accordance with appropriate engineering prac-
tice (Project Agreement, Section 3.03 (d)).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
59.       The total estimated cost of the project (including both Phases I
and II) is US$403 million (excluding interest during construction). The esti-
mate includes duties and taxes (about 5 percent of project costs) and physical
contingencies at rates up to 10 percent of base costs have been included as
appropriate. Average price contingencies or estimated price increases of
about 9 percent per annum have been included in project costs to meet expected
inflation in foreign and local costs during the project implementation period.
The estimated cost of Phase I of the project (the Grabovica and Salakovac
schemes) for which Bank financing is proposed, is US$290 million with a for-
eign cost component of US$73 million. The foreign cost estimates (excluding
interest during construction) are based on the assumption that with the
exception of the supply of Kaplan turbines estimated to cost about US$36
million, all items to be procured out of the loan and put to international
competitive bidding will most likely be awarded to Yugoslav suppliers (see
paragraph 70). Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and
Project Summary.
60.       The proposed Bank loan of US$73 million, representing about 18 per-
cent of total project costs, would finance the estimated foreign exchange
costs (excluding the interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan
estimated at US$8 million) for Phase I. The Bank loan would have a term of
fifteen years, including three years grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per
annum. The Bank loan would be made to EBH who would make the proceeds avail-
able to Neretva (who would carry the foreign exchange risk) on the same terms
as the Bank loan.



- 21 -
61.       Other sources of financing for the project would include Neretva's
internally generated funds and surcharges on the sale of electricity from the
pooled resources of EBH, together amounting to about 26 percent of total
project costs. The balance of the required funds, about 56 percent of the
total cost, would be borrowed from local and foreign sources, with Privredna
Banka Sarajevo (the Republic's primary bank and a borrower under four previous
Bank loans) providing about 9 percent, loans from industry providing about 11
percent and the Federal Fund referred to in paragraph 7 of this report pro-
viding 3 percent. In addition, Privredna Banka Sarajevo has undertaken to
arrange or directly proviLde the balance of the financing requirements, as well
as to guarantee the proviision of any funds needed for cost overruns.
62.       The project would be financed in two phases.  Although all the appro-
priate commitments for Phase I (total US$290 million) have been obtained and
most finalized and signed, the signing of the Privredna Banka Sarajevo guar-
antee agreement to provide the balance of funds not obtained from other local
and foreign loans (about US$71 million) would be a condition of effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Recital G and Section 7.01(a)).  The financing for Phase II
would require about US$112 million (of which the foreign cost component is
about US$11 million). About US$50 million is expected to be provided from the
combined resources of Neiretva's internally generated funds and EBH's pooled
investment funds, with Privredna Banka Sarajevo providing a similar guarantee
for the balance of funds not obtained from other local and foreign loans.
Obtaining the appropriate commitments for this would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement, Recitals H and I and Section 7.01(b)) and the
finalization and signing of these arrangements for Phase II are to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(k)).
Financial Structure and Performance
63.       The proposed project represents only about 20 percent of EBH's total
1977-82 electric power development program for the republic and about 30 per-
cent of its total investment program for generation. The estimated total cost
of the program is about US$2.2 billion. This program is expected to be
financed from internal cash generation provided by EBH's constituent organi-
zations and from surcharges contributed to the pooled investment fund of EBH
(about 36 percent including surcharges on electric sales and customer con-
tributions), special loans from industry (about 11 percent based on special
levies on economic organizations), loans from the Federal Fund (about 9 per-
cent) and other borrowings (about 44 percent, of which 4 percent represents
Bank borrowing).
64.       Current Financial Position.  EBH's latest balance sheets (1975 and
1976) show a sound financial picture. The ratio of debt to equity has
strengthened from 38:62 in 1974 to 33:67 in 1976. Gross debt service at the
end of 1976 was covered more than three times by internal cash generation.
These statistics show EBH could readily incur additional long-term debt for
the purposes of financing future expansion.
65.       Financial Forecasts and Performance Criteria.  The financial fore-
casts indicate that EBH would improve its financial performance through 1983



- 22 -
provided tariff and other measures envisaged at present are implemented. The
debt equity ratio is expected to decline only slightly (from 33:67 in 1976 to
36:64 in 1983), but the debt service coverage, although remaining satisfactory,
will have diminished significantly (from 3.3 in 1977 to 1.6 in 1983), reflect-
ing the fact that much of EBH's outstanding debt is expected to be repayable
over terms of 10 years or less. The ability to prudently support significant
amounts of further borrowing would depend on the terms and conditions of such
debt and this suggests that EBH should seek as high a proportion as possible
on longer terms. The financial forecasts show rates of return on revalued
fixed assets ranging from 3.2 percent in 1978 up to 7.4 percent in 1981. If
the revenue surcharges and customer contributions related to the sale of elec-
tricity are included as part of operating income and if adjustment is made for
depreciation being applied at normal rates (i.e., at minimum rates averaging
3.7 percent compared with the higher rates allowed averaging 4.25 percent),
the resulting rates of return range from 7 to 10 percent. These latter figures
represent acceptable levels of performance and reflect more realistically
the rates of return likely to be achieved.
66.       Being cognizant of the financial needs of the sector, the republic
has had, since 1974 when the current investment program was initiated, as its
objective the provision of adequate funds. Special measures have included
exemption of power organizations from income tax, deferral of debt service
on some local loans, introduction of surcharges on most consumers and taxes
on industry and raising of depreciation allowances. These measures, if
accompanied by continued annual increases in tariffs (or similar measures)
to compensate for inflation, are expected to finance about 42 percent of the
power development program (cash generation covenant in the proposed loan
agreement is discussed in paragraph 67 below). Aside from the need to gen-
erate funds internally for the development of the power sector, there is,
within EBH, significant variation between the cash generating capacities of
the various activities carried out by EBH's constituent members. This is
expected to be addressed by EBH in its role as the new composite organization,
through its self-management agreement in which it has agreed to study the
internal financial relationships, especially internal prices and costs,
between the various generation, transmission and distribution organizations
in furtherance of the composite organization's objective of integrating and
balancing their financing needs. EBH has agreed to furnish the results of
this study to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 5.08).
67.       Under the existing financial, covenant in the Second Power Trans-
mission Loan (Loan No. 1469-YU), agreement was reached with EBH, as one of
the participating borrowers, that it would achieve at least a 30 percent
level of self-financing annually on its generation and transmission facili-
ties and that it would endeavor to reach a 35 percent level as quickly as
possible and in any case within a period of five years (by 1982). In view
of the integration of the republic's distribution enterprises with EBH, it
was agreed that it would be more appropriate to revise the existing covenant
to include distribution investments and to establish the cash generation
requirement at 35 percent of investment begining in 1978 (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04). This would provide an adequate level of performance and ensure



- 23 -
a satisfactory financial position. To achieve this level of cash generation
EBH will require increas,es in tariffs or equivalent measures (such as sur-
charges) on average of albout 15 percent per year during the next four years.
These increases are in line with past increases undertaken by Bosnia-Herzegovina
and the republ-c is expected to continue its policy of maintaining tariffs
at levels sufficient to cover operating costs (including increases due to
inflation), and surcharges to obtain additional revenue for investment purposes.
(Tariff increases of about 12 percent and surcharge increases of about 50 per-
cent have been authorize,d for 1978 and are expected to be enacted by mid-1978.)
It is recognized however, that in keeping with most public utilities which
face variable levels of investment, there will be year to year fluctuations in
cash generation coverage; in those years where a shortfall in internal cash
generation might occur due to lumped investment expenditures before the
investments come on stream, the Bank and EBH could agree to carry any short-
fall in one year forward to be covered under a subsequent year's cash genera-
tion. For instance, bot'h the Bank and EBH recognize that for the years 1978
to 1979, when a major portion of the investment program expenditures are to be
undertaken, the percentage of planned investments expected to be financed from
internal sources of EBH will vary from 33 percent in 1978 down to 29 percent
in 1979, before rapidly improving to average 42 percent for the 1977-83
period. Even this relatively high level of internal cash generation may not
be sustained as EBH develops its future program. New project construction, in
addition to that already foreseen will probably be commenced in 1982 and 1983
to meet the load growth after 1983. This would be expected to lower somewhat
the portion of investments financed from internal sources, particularly in the
years 1982 and 1983. The introduction of new projects or major changes in the
1977-82 investment program would alter these projections and EBH has, therefore,
agreed to discuss with t'he Bank any proposals for changes resulting in a varia-
tion in the cost of the program equivalent to about US$55 million or more
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.06).
68.       To ensure that EBH would be enabled to obtain authorizations or
approvals to revise tariff levels or take other measures to provide the
required internal funds for financing the sector development, the Federal
Government has undertaken (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)) to take
such actions as may be necessary to ensure this. To ensure that no new
bulk consumer will be supplied at rates below the long run marginal cost
of supply, EBH has agreed that it will, when making special supply agreements,
charge prices adequately reflecting the estimated cost of supply and ensure
that provision is made for future p4ice adjustments reflecting any increase
in the costs of supply (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.05 and 6.01(1)).
69.       Audit.  Annual financial statements in Yugoslavia are subject to
audit by the Social Accounting Service (SAS). In the past the scope and
quality of these audits have not been considered completely satisfactory in
the light of the Bank's audit requirements. Currently, however, groups of
auditors are receiving training in modern auditing methods under the direction
of international auditors. This training was commenced at the Bank's insti-
gation and has been closely monitored by it. This special audit group within
SAS is now developing the expertise for carrying out comprehensive audits



- 24 -
consistent with generally accepted international standards. The special
audit group is expected to complete a pilot audit of the Neretva organization
in 1978. In the following year a full audit by the special audit group would
be conducted and extension of these audits to other power sector organizations
within EBH would then gradually commence. In the meantime, it has been
agreed that the consolidated accounts of EBH would be audited by SAS or
other competent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These arrangements would be
in accord with those under the Second Power Transmission Loan.
Procurement and Disbursements
70.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be applied to the electro-
mechanical equipment, including water control gates, etc., purchased in
accordance with international competitive bidding consistent with Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. The equipment to be financed would be tendered
in 13 lots valued in aggregate at about US$87.5 million (including physical
and price contingencies). Of these lots, with minor exceptions, it is expected
that due to the competitiveness of the Yugoslav manufacturing industry, only
the supply contract for Kaplan turbines (about US$36 million) is likely to be
awarded to a non-Yugoslav contractor. In assessment of the bids, Yugoslav
manufacturers would receive a preference of 15 percent or applicable duties,
whichever is the lesser.  Bidding documents for the earlier lots have already
been reviewed by the Bank and bidding on them is in progress. Contracts for
the civil works which are not being financed by the Bank, have been let to
Yugoslav contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding and in view of
the existing skill and competiveness of the local contracting industry demon-
strated in international competition, this is an effective and acceptable
method of project execution.  Work has commenced and is progressing satis-
factorily.
71.       Bank disbursements would extend over about 3 years.  An estimated
disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary. The proposed
loan would be disbursed against the CIF costs of imported items or the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured items supplied under contracts awarded
under the conditions described above.
Environment
72.       A study of the ecological and environmental aspects of the region
surrounding the project has been undertaken over a period of two years. Its
terms of reference covered town planning, resource utilization, cultural and
historic sites and their preservation, improvements to the communication system,
population movement, agricultural, recreational and touristic potentials and
the impact of the schemes on the flora and fauna of the region, including the
fish population and appropriate actions in this regard. The recommendations
of this study, undertaken by experts drawn from the University of Sarajevo
and other Yugoslav institutions, have been incorporated in the plans for this
project and into regional development plans. It is therefore expected that
any negative ecological effects of this project would be minimized and the
overall effect should lead to the improved development of the Neretva river
basin.



- 25 -
Benefits and Risks
73.       The proposed generation facilities will not only help meet Bosnia-
Herzegovina's needs for addlitional peaking capacity, but will also complement
the base load plant currently being developed elsewhere in the national inter-
connected system to overcome the shortages of power being experienced by the
national Yugoslav system.  At discount rates between 10 percent and 18 percent,
the project constitutes the least cost alternative when compared to all the
feasible alternatives for providing the required power and energy.  Although
based on understated benefits to the consumer, the economic rate of return on
the investment (including Phase II) is estimated to be in excess of 11 percent
based on the measurable costs and benefits, using tariffs which are expected
to be in force at the time the plant is commissioned.  In addition, the project
is expected to yield a number of minor benefits from irrigation, transporta-
tion, tourism, and flood control whose value cannot be quantified with reliable
accuracy. If the average electricity tariff is increased by 15 percent when
the project is commissioned, the return would rise to 12 percent whilst if
project costs were increased 25 percent, the return would be reduced to 9 per-
cent.
74.       A risk associated with the possible leakage of reservoir water
past the dams has been recognized and the Borrower has agreed to appoint a
board of independent experl:s to assist, if need be, in the solution of any
problem that may arise (see paragraph 58). The level of risk is acceptable
and the back-up by a board of experts is as much as can reasonably be provided.
Delays could be experienced in timely provision of funds for completion of the
project but the guarantee of the republican bank (Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
see paragraph 62) and the special efforts of the republican authorities to
obtain them represent an adequate assurance that the funds will be provided
without undue delays.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Elektroprivreda Bosne
i Hercegovine, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Hidroelektrane
na Neretvi, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Repub-
lic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest were noted in
paragraphs 53 through 68 of this report and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01) are:
(i) All financing arrangements including cost overrun guarantees,
have been undertaken (paragraph 62 above);



- 26 -
(ii) The execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of Neretva
(paragraph 56 above);
(iii) Neretva has furnished the Bank with the detailed technical
designs and cost estimates for the facilities to be construc-
ted under Phase II of the Project (paragraph 53 above); and
(iv) Neretva has appointed the members of the independent advisory
board on construction, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 58 above).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 19, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                            AMNNX L.
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------------
_______________                                  YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      255.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANIA        SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. oF***
---.-------------                     ------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    380.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 *L               550.0 /a  1530.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AN0 VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           19.4       20.4       21.5 /a            20.3        33.5        61.6
POPULATtON DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       72.0       80.0      84.0 /a             85.0        67.0       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       124.0      139.0     149.0 T             136.0       105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         26.13      21.0       18.2               19.0        21.0        17.3
CRUDE DEATH F.,TE (/THOU.AV)         11.5        9.1        9.2                8.9         8.8        11.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        88.0       55.5      40.5                49.4        27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       63.7       67.7      68.0                67.7        70.5.       70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4        1.3        1.3                1.3         1.4         1.2
POPULYTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.2        1.0        0.9                1.0         1.1         1.0
URBAN                                 6.0        4.6         ..                3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)          27.2       38.7       39.0 /b            40.8        59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       30.7       28.3      26.3                25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       63.2       64.3      65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6.1        7.4        8.3                8.6         9.7        13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.5        0.6        0.S                0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         ,.        0.8 IC             0.7 /b      1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..         ..                 ..
USEkRi (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            .-         .-         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         8300.0         ,,      9150.Q0d          9900.0    11900.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)   -   57.0           *-        39  Xe            49.0        25.0         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LA80R FORCE)           7.0         *-         3  s               ..         1.1         0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.4 /a   15.1          ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            41.5  a   41.4          ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.9        6.6        ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            19.0       18.4         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS (X)        15.I**    15.1**    15.1**
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(1I)   84.9!**    84.9**    84.9**
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            140Q.0  b 1010.0       850.0               680.0      740.0 /b   580.0
POPULATION PER NUR_ING PERSON       1350.0 /b 410 0        450.0               200.0          .. -    350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           200.0      170.0      170.0              140.0 Ic   220.0        90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        115.D      124.0    137.0                11B.0       107.0      121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              91.0       92.0      97.5                92.0       81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.D       29.0      35.4                28.0       40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             4.5        2.6        1.7                2.4         0.9        0.9
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       96.0       94.0      96.0 aL           113.0       123.0       129.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     34.0       45.0      49.0 j             44.0        57.0        66.0Tha
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      12.0              12-13        11.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     72.0       72.0      74.0  L            58,0        20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                77.0       85.0         ..                 ..        94.0       99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS Pt-, ROOM (URBAN)               1.7         .-        1.3/b              1.3 /d       *-        0-.71
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        . *                61.5/a.h           88.0 /d,e           . .3/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 54.5         ..      89.2/a             49.0 /d       ..       100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   36.1         ,,      80.1/b              27.0 /d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         85.0     163.0      193.0               152.0      214.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       35.0      72.0                  ,,       71.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          480.0    1288.0   1887.0                1615.0     1634.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.3        4.3       3 8                 2.6        5.8        17.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNiX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTEIS
Jnless otthewiss noted, data for 1960 refer to asny y-r between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sed 1970, and for !loat Recest feti-tt between
1973 and 1975.
*    Gb'P per capita data are based no  the World B-nk Atla  -ethodolsigy (1974-76 basia.
as I. Agri-ulture land held bv social aentor (Rgebisate).
no   17. Agri-slrure land held by pritate aIall-holders "10 he t.res nanioue'
a**  Selection of Federal Republic of Gereany sa an objective Country is based on the close econsio tlee nSintained by the two oo.ntries as well
as on the fart that the greater Part of Yagoslavia's around one npiion workers tanpororily abroad hat-  f-usd e-ployert in the Federal
Republ ic of Coerasny.
Y0OS' AVLIAI                1960    /a  1963;    /b  1962.
MOST RECENT ESTLiATE,    /I  1976;    /b  197t;    /c  Ratio of poptlatiot   under 15 sed 65 and  over to total labor force
/d  ITcloding sbout S8C thousond  Jigraot workers  iorking ootsid;    !e 1975, an retio of
Sctive rneident labor fooct,    /f  1970-74 s-nege;              g  1972;    7-,   Teide only.
ROplANIA                    1970    Ia  lot cesparable to those for other Centrally PFanend E.onongio.   Derived by using the Bank  rtlas  erthodoigy,
by adjasting Official It-asies national  -.co.nsta dabt  sod  o-vertring thee into US dollars at the effe,tio-
exohange rate for foreign trade trane.ction-  obich approoitaros Lfi 20 per Us dollar;    /b  Ratio efipopulatisn
coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor fro.e;    /c  Hospital=  only, rexluden  sanitaria and msteto9ty hofes;
Id 1966; Le Inside only.
SPArI                       1970     L.  Enploytsent  ffice estimate;    /b  RegiFterod, nvt all praoticing in the country.
CERMASYY   FTD  RE_P  OF    1970   /I  ISnlude tho relevat dats relating to Berlin for ohich sop-oste dota hale  -ot bon oc,ppliod;                     /b  Total. orbao
rural;    /o  In.ide only.
R16, March 2, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF _grCTtAL 71ICATORS
L-nd ores (thou em2)                                                                         Population per nutsing Person - Population divided by nub-er or pra-ticing
TItal - total surface ares oceprisibg land ares and inland w-ters,                              -ale *ad fecal-  gr-dsate n         'ree   tr-ined" or `-entified  nur.ee, and
e - Moat tenset estimate of egrinolnorel area aed teporattly or penpa-                  acmilissy personnel etch  -rstniog or eper-e-ce
neety fer coops, penrores, market 6 kitcben ga-d.es or to lie fellow.                       oplattee n   oital  bed - Popolatiet divded by nubher of hospitrl beds
ava.iable in pobl!ie and private genr S. sod epecisisd hospital and
GIIP Per cILta (G551 - GbP per .spite estisatea  at turre-t earkta  pri-en,                     robahiliatlon oennert  ;eol=des nersing heee  and eatabliah ..nts fo
cslrulersd by seen conversion tethod as World bank Atlas (1973-75 b-ast);                    ocetedial and preventIve oars.
1960; 1970 aed 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita nuenlo of csioriee  (7 so resuirseents) - Canpoetd frofn energy
squoislent of net food supplie- av-ilable in tountry penr tpita per day;
PoPulnitton sad vial  atetistic:                                                               acailebis supplies caprine d-trenic  -rodoction, Imports less enprts, and
Peeulatioe inid-vsar nillionl   us of Jaly first:  if not available,  -versge                  ohanges in stock: ntt  upplirs  -tclode a-JosI feed, seeds, quarritie i seed
of two end-yr-r osti-a-n; 160, 1970 and 1975 dsta.                                          in feed prcessolng and losn.s  it di-tribtiun; reqitre,ests- ere estieeted
by 'AO based on physinlogiesi seeds tot  -ens  sto    end hsaLth noesl
Po ation d            e                 Mid-ye pfputi    per teil ts                           eriog  nventai teper-tur, body wights, age asd  ee diatrio.-- of
ililb   ' heoarn)o  total -at.                                                               populatise, and al11nieg 10% for user  at husaehold level.
P.o.l.tion denitv- -  _rsre ore _   c_  o aI ri -- Id - Cfmpured as shore for                Per nanita sanpel orf rerein (lArne-   r day) - pr-cei tentert of per cepita
agoituLtural land only.                                                                      not spply of food per day; net aepply of food if defined as above; equiro-
nests fm .11 coos-triee established by U0SDA E-oonqio Rese-tbh S-evic-s
viral stertisi                                                                                  provide  for s eititns  allesanre of 60 grass of total proteIn per day, and
Crude birth earncotp  thousand, average - Annual live births per thausand of                    20 gra-e of enital and polae protei.t of shtc  I0 grs should he anmal
eld-peat population; ten-v'esr aritisseiti  averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                protein; the.e standards are Iower then these of 75 gran  of total protein
Cnd flo-p-er average ending is 1975 for o-at rnoent estiate,                                 and 23 gra-a of animal protefo as at averogo for  h. world, proposed by FAO
Crude denth race net thoha--nd, a-erssn- bAneel deeths per t              foudad =id-year      to the Third World Food Survey.
popolation; tn-yent a-ithretic averagee ending is 1960 end 1970 and five-                  Per eanira oretein noppit    animal ad noIse  - Protein supply of food
year average snding in 1975 for po-t rec-nt sstmate.                                         devived fron animals  nd pulses is gra  pet day
Ivfant Mnortaliv rare i/thee) - An--al deaths of Inf-te undsr en.  yer of age               heath rare  (/theu) asos 1-4 - antn!. dearba pso tbOussed in age group 1-4
per thousand hoc births.                                                                     year, to ohildren in this  ge. gropV  suggested on an indirator of
Life eoenrcta-sat bhirth ivr-) - Averege nuaber of years of life remaining at                  oainurrtion
birth;  fsally  ive-pyear  --eragss ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing  -oe  ier.                                                                             Education
Gres  reproduction rate  - Average ovaber of live daughters  a wonao will bear                Adj1uted strollareet ratio -       pritary hrbool - E-rlltsent of a11 ages as per-
in her nor.al r-produntivr period if she neperirn_ca presert age-spanifie                     r-ntege of prioary sool-ago population; in-lud6  ohildr-n aged 6-11 yearo
tertiliry rates; aesl1y fsve-year averag-   a ending it  1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lenInth  of primary edocatip; for c-untrisa oirh
for deelopieg codntrie.                                                                      utiversel edarstion, earolloeet nay e..eed 100l,  itic  ace popils *re bhei
Popul.otio  grovth rats (-p - renal - toespoond a.-u.I grerth rarts  of  id-year                or sbove the offioi-l school Sge.
7onulatise foc 1150-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlu-ted enrllasent rm  - secondery anoot - Ctepered .  above; secondary
Population Aerthl rate i7) - urban - Cmnpsied like gre-th rate of sotel                         eduoation requires at least fRer years of approved pniewey iqusruction
populati-n; different definitioqu of -rban areas say affect cPVp8rability of                  providse  general, venational oressher training inatrottiens for pupila
deta aeossg nouserins.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; tseesapedssos conneas are generally etlndsd.
Orban populatine  (7 of total)  - Ratrl  of utban to total pnpulation; different              Ynare of schaslnrg p-ovided (firrt and second le-ie) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas say *ffsct c-parabiliry of data seeng countries                    schooling; at secondary level, vo-atienal inatnuction say be partially or
ne-plately e-laded.
age  racrr  forcet     h -  bildrre  (0-14 years), -erkieg-age (15-64 yeora),           tonatienl serslnetnt (7 of letendarr) - Voc-tional institutiae  include
aed recited  f65 years and oner) as pareentages of aid-year papalation.                       renhenal, indstrial or other progress vhibh opert  indepde y Io  a
oar depeedenry toti     R - RatLo of pop,lation -nder IS and AS  nd evr to those                daparpen-et  of se-ondary institutions 
If aoee 15 thronah 64.                                                                       dult iirracv rate (/) - Literste adolte (able to teed ard trite) as per-
bconossit d-peedenoy ratio  - Ratio of popalation under 15 and b5 and over to                   neefage of total adalm  population aged 15 years ond over
the labor force in age group of 15-h4 years
Pseilo olanoino-atteptora ingeniav, P, thee) -  cosPlatior  tnu,b,r of atoepiors    Aosope-
of birth-conorrel devines under auspions of national temily plaoning progres                Persons net rout farhse) - Averags ntimber of persons per eace ot  onroCpiad
alto  lo.teptob.                                                                              covnisldelsIn orban ar... ; dw11iio0s  -nolde  o-rssn
fantio planning - uaera  (7 of married cancel - Percentages of  arried wontn of                  trutcturee and onovcupied part.
btild-brariog age (15-44 porte) win one hirrhtb-ntrol devist- to a11 married                ontopied doelllngs -ithbo  t  iped wate0    -  ttpied pioe;nionat   dweLitit
no per-etags of all n-npied dwellings..            i
TocaL labor force fibousandl - itonesitolly acttlo   persoos, including asneed                  seoetriciry  in living qoarters as perteatr of ntoaL dweLlings in  bre  ad
fortes rod unestpluyd bet necladiog bousetoss,  trudents, etc.; definitions                   rorel areas.
In varioua tos-trief  are not t-mparabl.                                                       Cl dtellins    oneted to *lectricitY  a, . OCeputod as above for rural
Labo fors isagrcsltre 0)  -aorioutoeal laber forte (in faroing, forestry,              dwellig ny
hArris9 and fiieing) as peroentage of totol Iabor far-e
Urteeoioved (7 of labor fare-s   - tnemploynd ore usually defined as per-ons who              fonaunonion
are able and villLng to take a job, ott of a job on a gi-en day, reined  ot                 ladle reeivers Iper thou pop) - All tvpeesof receivers fer radio b..adcas-t
of a job, snd aaeking cork for s specified minimue period not extending .nes                  i  geeai public per theesand of popaletron;  -orludes unliceneed reneiv-
-ek; ray  ou  bs roeparable between te!,tries dno to different doefriains                      is r-ntrien   sod In Years when regietrati-o of  .adio sets was in effot;
of usempltepd ad anra of data, e.g, asplow ant 5ffire stat  eite. sanpl                       data for t -ens    y-ara may not be nonpara-ib  sintk nest coantri-s abolished
-croeys, ranpelesry ueesplepY-at ineuranre.                                                    lieeaing.
.e  Sathe                         Paeeenger oars ocaprise eotrr -at   eating
Ime _disibot          perentage of pri-te Ioose (both in tash and kind)                         less tha eight parsons; senlodes esbulsae-., hssrsea and ailicary
rotelved by riche-t 5%, richest 207, poorest 2Cf, and poorest 40% of house-                   oshioles
orde.                                                                                       ElectricitY ikwh/yr one can) - Annual r..     an- ption of indastrial,  matertisl
pubjln! an   rv  eeeriiy in kitiewtt hours pser ..pita, geserelip
DLctrLbution at land ewesrabie - Peroentager of teed  -woed by  1e0ltnet 1U7                     based on produ-tion data, without               f-ceso to   in grids but .allo-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                                inS for impsrtn and eperts of s1ertrieity.
Besseis 0k/p se nn)-  et aprsasnalo-soptio  in bilograna
unal tb and hnutrinion                                                                           sarimaned fees dsaeent  preduerteontc   ntCD pie   e   metao s n oespgrint
oais e yiti    P - Papulation divided by n-b-er of prac.iting
physiriene qualified fees a nediosl seheol at eiverstoy lenl-



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DMIY3PHNRT DATA
(Atoomts in Milliom US Dollars)
Actual              Prelisinarv    Eatiesated
1972     1973     1974         1975            1976               1965-72       1972-75       1973-76        1972      1974       1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                       Constant 1974 Prices and Exchanse Rate of $1  - 17.0 Din.               Averea Annual Grwth Rates                   As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                     21,638  22,720   24,765       25,887          26,922                 5.6           6.2           5.8          97.8    100         99.3
Gains frogs Terms of Trade                    468     681                  +142            +197                                                           2.2     -           0.7
Gross Domestic Income                      22,106  23,401   24,765       26,029          27,119                 5.5           5.6           5.0         100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                         6,588   7,600    8,312        8,350           8,082                12.6           8.2           2.1          29.7     33.6       29.8
Exoorts (insl. NFS)                         5_437   5.788    5.694        5.872           6.506                 8.3           2.6           4.0          24.5     23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                                1,151   1,812    2,618        2,478           1,576
Consumption Expenditure                    16,139  17,716   19,953       19,795          19,670                 6.7           7.0           3.5          73.0     80.6       72.5
Investment Expenditure                      6,650   6,816    7,429        8,570           8,827                 6.0           8.8           9.0          30.1      30.0      32.5
National S-vings                            6,904   6,806    6,241        7,330           8,717                 6.6            2.0          8.6          31.2      25.2      32.1
Domestic Savings                            5,499   5,006    4,812        6,092           7,252                 3.1           3.5          13.2          24.9      19.4      26.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                   Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                        As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                               689   1,004    1,305        1,887           1,758                                                          21.3     17.4       23.9
Petroleum  and Fuels                        177     359       952         943           1,080                                                           5.5     12.6       14.6
Intemediate Goods                         1,859   2,450    4,291        4,109           3,618                                                          37.7     57.1       48.1
Consumotiom Goods                           502     698       972          758            911                                                          15.5      12.9      12.4
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)             3,227   4,511    7,520        7,697           7,367                                                         100.0    100.0      100.0
Exports
Capital Goods                               316     389       514          695            920                                                          14.1      13.5      18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                   362     409       477          600            761                                                          16.2     12.3       15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                      272     325       556         458             472                                                          12.2     14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (imcl. food)          400     475       439         488             640                                                          17.9     11.5       13.1
Other                                       887   1.255    1.819        1.831           2.085                                                          39.6     47.9       42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)             2,237   2,853    3,905        4,072           4,878                                                        10t.0    100.0       100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                     1974   100
Export Price Index                           63      76       100          109            114
Import Price Index                           58      68       100         105             109
Tems of Trade Index                         109     112       100          104            105
Export Volume  Index                         93      99       100          98             112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
o.f $1 - 17.0 Din.                                                                        As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                               3,213   3,496    3,763        3,663           3,846                 2.7           4.5           3.7          15.6      16.0      15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                  6,374   6,712    7,471        7,888           8,125                 6.6           7.4           6.6          31.0     31.8       31.8
Other                                    10.956  11 362   12.276       13j026          13.589                 5.4           5.9           6.2          53.3     52.2       53.2
Total                                    20,543  21,570   23,510       24,577          25,560                 5.3           6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0      100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE -I                                             Current Prices                                                                            As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                          2,772   3,489    4,841        6,305                                 ..            ,.            ..           17.5     19.5
Current Expenditures                      2,520   3,154    4,794        6,267            ,.                   ..            ..            ..           16.0     19.4
Budgetary Savings                           252     335        47           38           ,                    ,.            ..            ..            1.6      0.2
Public Sector Investment                    224     281       328          352           ,,                   ..            ..            ..            1.4       1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORXERY                        TOFAL LABWR FORCE -                                 VALUE ADDED PER WOBER (1974 PRICES AND EXCROAIGE RATE $1 = 17 Din.
Million       7. of Total          1972-75                      US Dollars            Percent of Average         1972-75
1972     1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate              1972      1975             1972     1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rote
Agriculture .                              3.55    3.10   45.4    39.0           -4.6                        905    1,182                34        38             9,3
Manufacturing and Mining                   1.65    1.87   21.2    23.6            4.3                      3,863    4,218               147       136             3.0
Other 21                                   2.60    2.95   33.4    37.4            4.3                      4 214    4 416               160       142             1.6
Total -                                    7.80    7.92  120.8   100.0                                     2,634    31                  To00     100 
I/ Budgets of Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, and Communes unconsolidated.
2/ Total resident active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
3/ Estimated active labor force in thl private and social agricultural sector.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                 Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975         1976        1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                  3424    4363    5696    6307         7259         7985          20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                  3828    5124    8337    8760         8664       10832           22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)               -404    -761   -2641   -2453        -1405      - 2847
Interest                             -165    -222    -285    -337         -350      -  428           20.2
Workers Remittances                   889    1301    1511    1575          1728        1750          18.1
Other factor services net              17       50       93      62          40          42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)                82       96      138     121         137         150          13.6
Balance on Current Account            419      464   -T184   -1032          150      - 1333
M&LT Loans /1
Disbursements                       943    1170    1426    1850         1700         2424          15.9
Repayments                         -570    -686    -814    -930         -800      - 1091            8.8
Net Disbursements                     373      484     612      920         900        1333          24.5
/2
Capital Transactions n.e.i.-2    -117    -255           139     -68       -133          -
Use of Reserves                      -675    -663       438      180       -917                             Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                               DEBT AND DEBT SERVICEL4.   1972    1973    1974           1975
Official Grants & Grant-like           -        -        -       -    Public Debt Out. &           16i8i.-0  1869.3  2056 T5   227n75
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                  -       -        -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                   -        -       -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                       183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service              638.2   746.4   8227       989.7
Suppliers                          82.3     3.0       .6       -    Total Debt Service            855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions            121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                                -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (Z)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                 4.2       -       -        -
Total Public M&LT Loans             466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio j5.C           5.2      5.2       5.4
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.3    17.6    16.4          17.6
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -          -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only           Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                          559.1                  24.6
IDA                                   -                     -            Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                    5.3                    .2                         DO&D          4.7     6.0      5.4       5.9
Goverrnents                        1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as Z Prior Year
Suppliers                           115.6                   5.1                         DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1        15.0
Financial Institutions              269.9                  11.9
Bonds                                18.1                    .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                   -               as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6          24.6
2272.5                 100.0             as Z Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.6        12.9
Other M&LT Debts/3                 3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)          -
1/  Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
Jaruary 27, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at February 28, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty  Loans fully disbursed                                      553.2
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0    17.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
TuristickiL Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism               20.0     0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                   75.0     6.9
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      4.7
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline         59.4    21.6
947     1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry          14.5     0.2
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                 30.0     0.5
1012    1974   Stopanska 'Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       3.2
1013    1974   Privredna 'Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         3.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    39.8
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    22.5
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    29.4
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                40.0    20.5
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline             48.5    39.4
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    17.6
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    42.1
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    37.3
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    36.3



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      25.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.9
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      56.0
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission         80.0      80.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,627.6/a  663.4
of which has been repaid                              186.3
Total now outstanding                                 1,443.3
Amount sold                              7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.8               1.0
Total now held by Bank                                1,440.3
Total undisbursed                                                663.4
/a   A loan of US$80.0 million to Republic Road Organizations in Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia for a Ninth Highway Project and a loan of US$100.0
million to the Community of Yugoslav Railways for a Fifth Railway Project
were approved and signed subsequent to the above date of Statement A;
they are not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at February 28, 1978)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business      Loan   !iuity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation      -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry        5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev      Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry          7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler           Automotive
Benz A.G.                           Industry        13.3    3.3      16.6
1972   Sava/Semperit                        Tires             4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                          Pulp and Paper  13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel   10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant    10.0       -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                   Steel           50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane                               Processing       4.0    2.2       6.2
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products       14.8    2.4      17.2
Total Gross Commitments                              131.9   22.0    153.9
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            68.3    2.6      70.9
Total commitments hield by IFC                        63.6   19.4      83.0
Total Undisbursed                                     22.3   11.5      33.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The 7-.:oject construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, five are under construction. Status of
the two remaining subprojeects is as follows: (i) slaughterhouse facility
construction contract has been signed but is being amended to incorporate
Bank's comments; (ii) wine byproducts facility will not be constructed
because of the high investment costs and resulting low financial viability;
as a result, a substitute subproject will be financed.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the\original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The Project was inaugurated on September 4, 1976. The Project Com-
pletion Report was prepared in September 1977. Total project costs exceeded
appraisal estimates by about 15% (about US$5.2 million equivalent) due to
increases in local costs resulting largely from design changes. Financing of
this overrun was arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway:  US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved in early 1977 these problems have largely been
resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including improved investment
planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of Social Agree-
ments on railway and transport policies have been most encouraging.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule.  Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion.  Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit:  US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Eighty percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, de!lays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last: year and the situation is expected to improve
further in coming months.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0_million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon
review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded that
the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. Terms of reference and selection of consultants have been finalized
for the flood control and water quality studies. Tender documents for the
Vrutci Dam have been reviewed, and construction will begin in early 1978.
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The creation
of the lIorava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened
in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region
Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and preparatory work is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily and are currently projected to be
fully committed by early spring pf this year. The portion for the Kosovan
bank is forecast to be fully committed by June 1978 (the final date for sub-
mission of subprojects is December 31, 1978). Disbursements are slightly
behind appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1360 Metohija. Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final desi'gns on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Invitations for international
tenders for the winery will be issued shortly.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 110, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
There were delays in instituting administrative arrangements,
including the hiring of procurement consultants, but implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective September 7, 1977.  The contract
for the road in Macedonia and a portion of the road in Kosovo remain to be
awarded. Work on the Bosnian and Serbian roads and on a portion of the road
in Kosovo have already begun.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan was declared effective January 31, 1978. Procurement has
commenced. The proposed loan from the European Investment Bank was signed
in November 1977 and local loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective January 30, 1978.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date f'or declaring effectiveness is August 31, 1978.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA - Middle Neretva Hydro Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:         About 18 months (from early
1976 to mid-1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                    Hidroelektrane na Neretvi,
with assistance of Yugoslav
consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                  September 1973
(d)  First mission to review project:                  May 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                   October 1977
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                       March 22, 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                    August 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Completion of detailed engineering plans supported by geological studies
and updated capital cost estimates for Phase II (condition of effec-
tiveness, paragraph 53);
(b) Review of composite organization Elektroprivreda Bosnie i Hercegovine-
Sarajevo (EBH) manpower development program (paragraph 55);
(c) Appointment of independent advisory panel on construction (condition of
effectiveness, paragraph 58) and periodic inspections of hydroworks
after completion (paragraph 58);
(d) Financing arrangements and financing guarantees, including cost overrun
coverage (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 62);
(e) EBH undertaking to generate annually at least 35 percent contribution
to investment from internal cash generation and exchange views with
Bank before making substantial modifications to investment program
(paragraph 67);
(f)  Assurance that EBH would not sell gelectrici y tQ any new bulk consumer
at rates below the cost of supply (paragrap



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(g) EBH to furnish results of study on internal pricing arrangements
between its constitutent generation, transmission, and distribution
organizations (paragraph 66); and
(h) Federal Government would undertake to guarantee that electricity tariffs
would be set to enable tariffs and other measures to be so fixed in the
republic as to generate the required internal funds for financing the
sector's development (paragraph 68).






S    i  c a    /                 )    /                                                                      t                ^ 2        '; A di                                                         A
Q  r--   ;   \~~~   )      i.  :9'  I'lo  j;  2                         ,FBr.F  sIVs/   <>_          9 ~~~~~~~NOVI SAD            
<   >   /     fi ~~Prilodor                               u      0'                              ',ucv
\    2   B   L   k   e*rb  <S ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ 7 je 1EjjFIGRAD9 w5/1%
,   r .   g \   \                 I           g cnin u c                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ugli.Ak (  Obreoo  B  q ;bre-ov-cI                                       w.  rE
\    ts                \        ~~~~~~~~~BI ocac                    Tuzla:'j'\S                                                                           't'' ]:'   A. 
'   '          <                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SARAJEVO \                                                                        g.  ii.; i
' : ' \ Rama .>w n.' ... ,c'~~ric                         Buk Blielo|Jl-rs  o 
MiDDLE NERETVA HYDRO PROJECT                                                          1                           :S,lJotrGackoI.-''-  l.   u- S..
EXiSTiNG'.- =                                                  -=:           ,.                                           '         --        ,                  /                          j..rr.,... 
ANDEC ECUICN                                                                                                        PlNE )2\-/clla>Ravna Rilekat__/'    ,,;..*  ; U,
2i90<V Lines '~~~~~ 0 ~~ t / ~~ g : S di Au 1 g ~~~--  PRISTINA  1   i   y
* 3E B ~3V SsIc                                                                                              T.e  b                                                                                 ,r*i.ur-j.      A..     , 2A
*           D~~~20  Linetb                                                                                      t         7,                                                                X    1
i ~~~Themonl Powwr S1vi.6;0                                                                                          '>x -, 4KOPJE 
g i                 ---  8~~~~~~~aundo6es ofRepulplics nd AutonpmowpjPrpsrlces          t                                               g                P                              ' 
ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .1 t. -



