CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1561 YU
Project Agreement
(Middle Neretva Hydro Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HIDROELEKTRANE NA NERETVI
Dated May 31, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1561 YU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
HIDROELEKTRANE NA NERETVI (hereinafter called Neretva).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine-Sarajevo (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventy-three million dollars ($73,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Neretva agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has agreed to make available to Neretva,
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Neretva, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Neretva shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿- 2 -
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist Neretva in the prepar-
ation of plans and specifications for, in the preparation of
bidding documents for, and in the construction of the Project,
Neretva shall continue to employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Neretva shall appoint a panel of independent experts,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and
conditions to provide inter alia for advice to Neretva by said
experts in the event of any unforeseen problems arising during
construction of the facilities provided under the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Neretva undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Neretva to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Neretva shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Neretva shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon the request of the Bank, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Neretva: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to identify the goods and services


﻿- 3 -
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of
this Section, enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents;(iii) shall furnish to the Bank
within thirty days after each calendar quarter a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on
the progress of the Project during such quarter; and (iv) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to
it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Neretva, the
Borrower and the Bank, Neretva shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and Neretva of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) Neretva shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Neretva and any relevant records and
documents as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section 2.06. (a) Neretva shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Neretva shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Neretva of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.07. Neretva shall, in consultation with the Bank,
take all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that the Project


﻿-4-
is carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 2.08. Neretva shall cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land, and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acqui-
sition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Neretva
Section 3.01. Neretva shall at all times carry out its opera-
tions, manage its affairs and maintain its financial position and
plan its future expansion in accordance with sound engineering,
business, financial and public utility principles and practices,
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Neretva shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. (a) Neretva shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(b) Neretva shall at all times maintain the right to carry
on its operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
(c) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Neretva shall
not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of
its rights, property or assets except in the ordinary course of
business.
(d) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of
the preceding paragraph (a) of this Section, Neretva shall: (i)


﻿- 5 -
with the assistance of the appropriate authorities of the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia i Hercegovina responsible for super-
vision and inspection of hydraulic works, cause the dams, water-
ways, earthworks and reservoir banks and their appurtenant
structures constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected, at intervals of not less than one year and in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering practice, in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and earth-
works which may endanger the safety of such structures and
earthworks, the first of such inspections to start in respect to
each dam constructed under the Project, immediately prior to the
filling of the reservoir related to such dam; (ii) submit promptly
after each such inspection to the Bank, the conclusion of such
supervision and inspection authorities; (iii) make, promptly after
each such inspection, all necessary repairs of such structures and
earthworks; and (iv) make all necessary modifications in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of
such structures and earthworks, all to be in accordance with
appropriatc engineering practice and in accordance with the
recommendations of the said supervision and inspection authori-
ties.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Neretva shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Neretva shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of Neretva


﻿- 6 -
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of Neretva thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Bank shall promptly so notify Neretva.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Neretva:
Radna Organizacija
Hidroelektrane Na Neretvi
Mostar - Yugoslavia
Telex:
YU-ELMST 46-112
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Neretva may be taken or executed by
Neretva or such other person or persons as Neretva shall designate
in writing, and Neretva shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting throuCh
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
HIDROELEKTRANE NA NERETVI
By /s/ Sadi Cemalovic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Neretva shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. Neretva shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical material and equipment shall, to the extent pos-
sible, be included in one single bid.
4.   Conditions of bid invitation shall not require that foreign
firms enter into compulsory joint ventures with Yugoslav firms.
5.   (a) Bid invitations for contracts shall be advertised
also in well-known technical journals or trade publications
outside Yugoslavia.
(b) Foreign contractors shall not be required to register in
Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event
that registration shall be necessary after a foreign contractor
has been notified that he will be awarded a contract, Neretva
shall facilitate the registration.


﻿- 10 -
(c) A time period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for
submission of bids.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Neretva of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Neretva and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest


﻿- 11 -
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Neretva shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Neretva
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report acceptable to, and so certified by
the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank


﻿- 12 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Neretva
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   (a) With respect to each contract to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, Neretva shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform Neretva and state the reasons for
such determination.
(b) Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract to be or being financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, or granting an extension of the
stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing any
change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 20% of the original price, Neretva shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform Neretva and state the reasons for its
determination.


