Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1820-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATION1L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 21, 1976
This document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its conteits may not otherwise be disclosed without World Blank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                =         126 guaranies
1 guarani           =        US$0.00793
1 Meter (m)      2 =         3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m ) =       10.76 Square Feet
1 Kilometer (km)    =        0.6214 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)      =        2.471 Acres
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$4.0 million to help
finance the proposed Vocational Training Project. The loan wcould be made on
standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including seven years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest updating economic report for Paraguay (No. 899-PA) was
distributed to the EKecutive Directors in December 1975. The report evaluates
recent economic developments and provides an assessment of the medium- and
long-term prospects of the Paraguayan economy. Country data is presented in
Annex I.
3.        Despite the handicap stemming from Paraguay's landlocked position
and the disadvantages inherent in the country's remoteness from the major
world markets, the Paraguayan economy achieved an overall real growth rate
of 4.6% per annum during the 1962-72 decade. This was accomplished in an
environment of monetary stability and balance-of-payments equilibrium, as
indicated by an average inflation rate of only 3% and the fixed dollar value
of the guarani during this period.
4.        Output growth accelerated appreciably during 1972-74 to an average
rate of 7.5% per annum due principally to an expansion of agricultural produc-
tion. Agriculture is the main sector of the economy accounting for about
one-third of GDP and 90% of export earnings (including processed agricultural
commodities) in 1974. Agricultural production expanded at an annual rate of
9% in both 1973 and 1974. This performance represents a notable improvement
over the 2.9% average growth rate experienced during 1962-72 when the increase
in agricultural output barely kept pace with population growth. The rise in
external demand and i-avorable prices were probably the most important factors
in accelerating growlh. However, the effective supply response of Paraguayan
agriculture was also made possible due to a consistent effort on the part of
the Government to improve the country's transport infrastructure and implement
a comprehensive set of programs designed to increase and diversify exports,
particularly of agricultural and agroindustrial products.
5.        The good performance of agriculture during 1972-1974 also had favor-
able effects on Paraguay's income distribution. About two-thirds of the total
population lives in rural areas, and it has been estimated that the average
rural income is equivalent to only 28% of the average urban income. This wide
income disparity reflects Paraguay's rural structure where over four-fifths
of the farmers operate small farm units, in many cases at the subsistence
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



level. The recent increases in agricultural production, however, have come
from small- and medium-size farmers who have benefited from the Government's
efforts to colonize new lands and to provide more infrastructure and improve
services to existing settlements (since 1960, 300 colonies comprising nearly
900,000 ha have been established and have benefited one out of every four
agricultural workers). Moreover, rural wages have climbed sharply as the
increase in demand for agricultural labor has exceeded the available labor
supply in many areas.
6.        The strong export performance of 1974 proved insufficient to compen-
sate for the fast-rising import prices. Moreover, the EEC ban on beef imports
prevented exports of this project from reaching previous levels. As a result,
the balance-of-payments deficit on current account increased from US$20
million in 1973 to US$35 million in 1974. However, large private and some
public capital inflows more than offset the current account deficit permitting
a gain of net foreign reserves of US$39 million to US$78 million at the end of
1974. Private capital inflows into Paraguay are surging in response to the
country's favorable economic prospects and the planned construction of
large hydroelectric power projects at Itaipu and Yacyreta. Investments in
land, agroindustries and commercial banking have also been stimulated by the
incentives provided to foreign investors and by the sound economic policies
pursued by the Government.
7.        After several years of faltering performance, public finances im-
proved markedly in 1973 and 1974. Additional tax measures and the restraint
of current expenditures contributed to increasing public sector savings from
1.5% of GDP in 1972 to 3.5% of GDP in 1974. In the face of mounting inflation-
ary pressures during this period, the Government used part of the current ac-
count surplus to amortize debt with the monetary authorities. As a result of
this action and of sound monetary management, internal inflation which reached
22% in 1974 after the international oil price hike of late 1973, slowed down
to 6.7% in 1975.
8.        The excellent growth performance of the previous two years slowed
down to a 5% growth rate in 1975 due to the continuation of the EEC ban on
beef imports, the depressed level of wood exports to Argentina, and frosts
in midyear, which affected the production of many crops. Agricultural growth
reached only 3% in 1975. The combination of these adverse external factors
were reflected in an increased current account deficit of US$72 million in
1975. Nevertheless, increased private and public capital inflows, mainly
associated with the large hydroelectric projects, more than offset the current
account deficit and added to the level of reserves. Foreign exchange reserves
stood at the record level of US$112 million at the end of December 1975, equiva-
lent to about six months of import coverage. Public sector savings perform-
ance was favorable in 1975 remaining at about 3.5% of GDP, thus permitting
continued credit availabilities to the buoyant private sector.
9.        Despite the near-term difficulties being faced by the livestock and
forestry sectors, Paraguay's development prospects appear to be promising over
the medium to longer term. There exists a considerable potential for further



agricultural and agroinzdustrial growth based on extensive areas of under-
utilized land suitable for agriculture, livestock and forestry, and favorable
market opportunities for a number of products in the neighboring countries as
well as the United States and Europe. In addition to agriculture, the exploi-
tation of the country's vast hydropower resources will provide a plentiful
source of cheap energy and foreign exchange earnings. The construction of the
two large hydroelectric projects, jointly with Brazil and Argentina, will con-
tribute to maintaining the growth of the economy. Total expenditures in
Paraguay for services and materials during the construction stage (1975-84)
are expected to average US$20 million (1974 dollars) per year. Once the
turbines are in operation (1984), total revenues to Paraguay from the sale of
power could reach US$37 million (1974 dollars), equivalent to 18% of 1974
exports.
10.       The Government's development strategy of concentrating the growth
impulse in agriculture and agroindustries is consistent with the country's
objectives of accelerated economic growth.   Government policy continues to
give high priority to land colonization and to the provision of transport
infrastructure in order to facilitate the flow of goods to markets and export
outlets. The Government is implementing programs designed to assist farmers
in land settlement areas to increase productivity and output. In the case
of small farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing coloniza-
tion schemes and on the establishment of new ones (only 12% of Paraguay's
arable land is presently under cultivation). Through foreign private invest-
ment and credit programs, the Government hopes to accelerate the process of
agroindustrialization. The results to date indicate the soundness of this
approach; real per capita income increased by 30% during 1967-75.
11.       The Government's strategy of fostering economic growth on the
basis of the intensive exploitation of the country's comparative advantage
in agriculture and hydropower is also likely to succeed in spreading the
benefits of growth. Paraguay does not have a high level of unemployment but
underemployment appears to be high (the International Labor Organization
estimates that underemployment affects 53% of the labor force). The unemploy-
ment problem has not been severe, partly because emigration to neighboring
Argentina has served as a safety valve. With the acceleration of economic
growth, new employment opportunities have been created and underemployment
has been ameliorated, particularly in agriculture, where daily wages have
increased considerably during 1972-75. The recent high growth rates of the
economy, however, have been associated with technological changes which have
changed the nature of the manpower requirements of the economy.
12.       The achievement of a 7-8% GDP growth rate during the coming years
will require an intensiified investment effort. The required increase in
investment applies to both private and public investment. Direct foreign
private investment has jincreased sharply in recent years and should continue
in the future in view of the sound economic policies being pursued by the
Government and the favorable medium- and longer-term prospects for the agri-
culture and power sectors. The Government's intentions to increase the level
of public investment in agriculture and transportation is also consonant with



- 4 -
the future investment needs. The Government is already working, with the
assistance of OAS and AID, on improving the country's tax structure and on
making tax revenues more elastic to increases in income to help assure the
availability of increased domestic resources to finance the public investment
effort.
13.       Despite Paraguay's promising prospects, the country will continue to
need additional inflows of external assistance in order to attain its growth
and employment objectives. It is estimated that new external commitments
during 1976-80 should be around US$650 million. A significant portion of
this amount will be relatively quick-disbursing commitments of financial and
suppliers' credits. Moreover, to cover fully the external capital require-
ments of the economy, foreign lenders will need to finance an appreciable
proportion of the local expenditure costs of the projects in which they
participate. Since Paraguay in the past has obtained the bulk of its capital
needs on concessionary terms and since, as a result, its present debt service
ratio is low by international standards, the country's creditworthiness is
not expected to be impaired by the additional borrowing likely to material-
ize in the near future.
14.       Paraguay's outstanding and disbursed external public debt repayable
in foreign currency was US$200 million at the end of 1975, equivalent to 13%
of GNP. While during the last five years external public debt grew at an
average rate of 10% per annum, during 1975 it grew at a much faster pace due
to several large loans. The public debt service ratio, which was 7.9% in
1974, increased to 14.2% in 1975 and is projected to stabilize around 12-13%
during 1976-80 provided official external assistance is contracted on rela-
tively concessionary terms as in the past. Paraguay's continued need for
concessionary official financing to safeguard creditworthiness, its relative
poverty (GNP per capita of US$320 1/ in 1972), and its excellent development
performance in recent years, qualify it for Third Window loans.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
15.       Paraguay has received US$87.8 million (net of cancellations) in
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$46.3 million has been in the
form of eight IBRD loans, and seven credits totalling US$41.5 million have
been made from IDA resources. As of February 29, 1976, the Bank held US$39.8
million, including US$21.9 million undisbursed, and IDA US$41.1 million,
including US$18.1 million, undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank Group at
the end of 1975 was equivalent to 20.1% of Paraguay's external debt, with a
blend of about 45% IDA and 55% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted to 8.0%
1/ 1974 World Bank Atlas.



- 5 -
of total debt service in 1975, representing about 1% of exports of goods
and nonfactor servic:es. On a sectoral basis, Bank Group assistance to
Paraguay has been 40% for agriculture, 40% for transportation, 7% for educa-
tion and 7% for prelnvestment studies in several sectors. Execution of Bank
Group-financed projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
16.       In 1974, -LFC financed a wood processing project.  Its participation,
a US$5.4 million operation with FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million
loan, and equity participation of US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for
the financing of cO3t overruns of US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 29, 1975, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY75 consisted of loans for live-
stock, highway construction and a credit for rural develoment, totalling
US$35.5 million. The FY76 program includes the preinvestment studies project
approved in July 1975 and the proposed Vocational Training Project under
consideration today. In addition, work is underway on rural development, high-
way maintenance and construction, agroindustry, and education projects for
possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
18.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives which are interdependent and comple-
mentary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely than
before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural poverty.
A second objective is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports, by
supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions to
production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that will
bring about improvements in the management of the economy ancl, particularly,
that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial intermediaries.
A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external resources to complement
Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds for maintaining
an adequate level of economic and social investments in a friamework of sound
domestic finances and a viable balance of payments. Despite its relative
poverty but in view of its improved overall prospects, we are planning to
phase out IDA operations in Paraguay in the near future.
19.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its com-
position. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed
and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus, Bank
Group assistance fcr education and rural development is designed to help ease
the rural poverty problem and to improve the educational standards of the
lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. In this connection, the proposed
project will help alleviate Paraguay's urgent need for nonformal vocational
training. Bank Group lending for agroindustry is aimed at increasing the value
added of agricultural products destined for export and at expanding marketing
outlets for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the transport and power sectors



are designed to transfer resources to Paraguay and to help improve institu-
tional structures and policies of these sectors, which play a vital role in
supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors.
PART III - EDUCATION IN PARAGUAY
Human Resource Implications of the Development Strategy
20.       The implementation of the Government's strategy for fostering econo-
mic development through productivity increases and diversification of the
agricultural sector will require expansion of rural extension and training
services to provide farmers and technicians with new types of essential skills.
Similarly, the exploitation of hydropower resources will require a wide range
of skilled manpower which the country has not previously trained: during the
first seven years of dam construction, about 3,000 skilled workers, 1,100
foremen and 200 professionals would be needed. Moreover, although the number
of managers, administrators, and professional and technical personnel employed
to manage modern sector enterprises grew rapidly from 22,000 to 36,000 in the
last 10 years, no proper training or consultancy services have been provided
for them, and the mortality rate of the enterprises has been notoriously high
at 22% per year, mostly due to management deficiencies.
21.       The significant technological changes associated with farm mechaniza-
tion, agroindustrial development and construction of the major hydroelectric
projects will require new relationships between education and employment. Al-
though the Paraguayan labor force is basically literate (81%), the content of
education has not been closely related to the changing requirements of the
labor market.
22.       In order to attain the Government's target of 7-8% annual economic
growth in the coming decade, productivity per worker will have to rise at some
3% per year, compared with 1.6% in the past decade. The number of graduates
entering the labor force annually would have to be greater than it is now by
about 5,600 at the university level, 1,000 at the secondary level and 25,500
at the primary level. A significant expansion of secondary and university
education, with support from multilateral and bilateral agencies, will meet
most of the projected deficit at these levels by 1980. Further Government
effort therefore should concentrate on the primary level.
23.       Against this basic educational background, the public sector will
have to organize systematic and large-scale training programs to meet proj-
ected annual requirements for office and sales workers (5,400), agricultural-
ists (8,100) and skilled and semiskilled workers (8,700) up to 1985. More-
over, a substantial number of workers will need upgrading or retraining to
enhance their productivity and mobility as new job opportunities develop.



More than half of the 443,000 rural workers are engaged in cultivating basic
grains for only a few months of the year, and a large proportion of the urban
labor force comprises small-scale proprietors, self-employed service workers
and casual laborers.. Although new job opportunities have developed with the
recent acceleration of economic growth, particularly in agriculture, agro-
industry and construction, the underemployed workers seriously lack the tech-
nical skills required for the jobs. This shortage of skilled labor could
have an adverse impact on the effective implementation of the various develop-
ment projects.
24.       The prioritites for human resource development over the coming de-
cade will therefore be: (a) organization of training programs to meet the
immediate manpower requirements of the actively developing economy in the
short-term; (b) modernization of curricula at all levels of education and
training to improve the response of graduates to rapid technoLogical change
in the medium-term; and (c) expansion of basic education opportunities in
order to develop a trainable and adaptable labor force in the long term.
Overview of the Formal Education System
25.       The formal education and training system of Paraguay is handicapped
by structural imbalances and qualitative deficiencies. The Government has
consistently underspent on education, which accounted for only 11% of total
public expenditures in 1974, or about US$10 per capita, which is low compared
to other countries at a similar per capita income level. Moreover, the impact
of Government spending in education is impaired by the low efficiency of the
system. High dropout and repetition rates are reflected by completion rates
of only 26% at the primary level and 41% at the secondary level. These
figures imply that roughly 40% of annual operating expenditures are spent on
those who fail to complete their studies within the expected period. Low
efficiency is particularly acute in rural areas due to incomplete primary
schools, lack of teaching materials, and the irrelevance of the curriculum.
In addition, many children in rural areas speak only Guarani and have diffi-
culty in adapting to teaching in Spanish. It is estimated that about two-
thirds of the 120,000 school-age children outside the education system are
in rural areas.
26.       Despite the low level of efficiency and relevancy of the system, the
Government is achieving important improvements through various projects under
execution. The basic objectives of the Government's education policy, set out
in the 1969-80 Education Development Plan, are to increase educational oppor-
tunities at the primary and secondary levels, and to improve t:he quality of
educational programs and adapt them to the needs of the expanding economy.
A reform in basic education (grades 1 to 9), assisted by a USAID loan, is
presently being implemented and consists of curriculum development, textbook
production and the construction of pilot primary schools, regional centers
and teacher training facilities. At the secondary level, the structure and
content of education is being reformed thorugh the first IDA education project
(Credit 347-PA). The multilateral school concept is being introduced to offer



- 8 -
practical options at the lower secondary level and technical courses at the
senior level. Although the schools in this project are not operational yet,
the strategy being implemented should effect a major change in the relevance
of education at this level within the next few years. In addition, IDB is
participating in the development of secondary agricultural education and, to-
gether with the IDA project, output from job-oriented courses will more than
double. The problems to be addressed in the area of vocational training,
which is the subject of the proposed loan, and the efforts under way to deal
with them are discussed in the following paragraphs.
National Vocational Training Service (SNPP)
27.       The Government's policy towards the education sector emphasizes the
development of vocational training for both urban and rural populations in
order to meet the expected demand for qualified manpower in the growing
sectors of the economy. A three-stage, ten-year plan for the development of
vocational training was prepared by the Ministry of Justice and Labor in 1970,
with Spanish technical assistance, to improve the availability of qualified
manpower. The plan aimed at establishing a national infrastructure for
vocational training through the construction of strategically located regional
centers from which mobile action would be organized. The Servicio Nacional de
Promocion Profesional (SNPP) was established in 1971 to organize vocational
training programs in all sectors. SNPP is a semiautonomous body financed by
a 1% payroll tax, governed by a board of directors consisting of representa-
tives of the Government, private enterprise, and the trade unions. The
chairman of the governing board is also director of SNPP and is appointed by
the Minister of Justice and Labor.
28.       The first stage of the plan was begun with the construction of a
pilot training center in Asuncion (170 places), the establishment of an ins-
tructor training unit, and 13 mobile units which travel to all parts of the
country. Emphasis is on workers (over 18 years of age) in agricultural and
industrial occupations, but the separate needs of employed and unemployed
persons are not satisfied. Output in 1974 totalled 1,350 from courses varying
in duration from three to five months. Construction of a second vocational
training center at San Lorenzo started in 1975 with the erection of one
building for construction trades. Equipment for this center has been provided
under a technical assistance grant from the UK. SNPP is also receiving
technical assistance from Spain for agricultural training and from UNDP/ILO
for the establishment of an inplant training service oriented to the manpower
needs of the hydroelectric power projects, and for the development of a pilot
scheme in rural training.
29.       The implementation of SNPP's programs, however, has been adversely
affected by two financial constraints: the inadequate level of the institu-
tion's revenues and the procedure by which SNPP's annual budget and monthly
transfers are calculated. The size of SNPP's annual budget is determined by
the collecting agencies (Social Security Institute, and the Retirement and
Pension Fund of Bank Employees) which estimate the revenues accruing from the
payroll tax. These revenues have been repeatedly underestimated. Furthermore,



- 9 -
due to the time-lag in the collection of the tax revenues from the employers,
the collecting agencies have transferred funds to SNPP based on rough estimates
which fluctuate from month to month.   More realistic projections of SNPP's
income and better admi:nistration procedures are needed in order to facilitate
the planning and implementation of the institution's work program. Towards
this end, the proposed project seeks to improve the budgetary allocation
procedures of SNPP.
30.       Despite the budgetary difficulties, SNPP has made some progress in
the use of available resources. The cost per trainee hour has continously
declined since commencing operations and was at US$1.35 in 1974. In sharp
contrast to the formal education system where less than 1% of recurrent
expenditures are spent on materials and supplies, SNPP allocates about 40%
of its recurrent expenditures to these items. Capital expenditures, which
accounted for about 30% of SNPP's budget in 1975, are utilized mnostly to
procure additional equipment for training. The practical orientation and
efficiency of SNPP's expenditure policy and training programs would be re-
inforced in the future through administrative improvements which form part
of the proposed project, aimed at reducing the cost per trainee/hour to
US$0.67. In this respect, the Government is obtaining short-term management
consultants from bilateral sources to assist in carrying out measures to
strengthen SNPP's staffing, management and administration.
31.       Current SNPP strategy places increased emphasis on mobile action to
extend the training services at a lower cost to a broader segment of the popu-
lation in rural and urban areas. About 60% of SNPP's training activities
would be addressed to the needs of rural areas with training centers located
in the colonization regions of Eje del Este (Credit 509-PA) and Eje del Norte
(UNDP-assisted). Other centers would be located at the sites of the hydro-
power projects. Although the quality of trade training given by SNPP is satis-
factory, the range of courses is limited due to lack of equipment and facilities
and they are becoming unrelated to needs because of minimal communication with
enterprises. Moreover, there is no management training scheme for medium-
and small-scale enterprises, and the in-plant training service is limited to
the needs of the Itaipui hydroelectric project. In order to effectively meet
the changing demands oi the economy for trained manpower and increased pro-
ductivity, implementatLion of SNPP's training plan needs to be accelerated,
training techniques upgraded and output of trained workers substantially
increased. The proposed project aims directly at overcoming the obstacles
facing SNPP in these areas.
32.       The proposed expansion of SNPP's training activities is a practical
and cost-effective effort to respond to the expected manpower requirements of
the economy. SNPP is a young organization with limitations in its structure
and management. Its viability depends mainly on developing an appropriate
organizational infrastructure which is consonant with the present management
capability. The strategy of establishing only a few small fixed centers in
key areas of economic activity and relying on mobile training would provide
the needed flexibility in meeting training needs and would not put undue
strain on the management.



- 10 -
Bank Group's Role in Education
33.       The basic objective of Bank Group lending to the educational sector
in Paraguay is to support the Government's efforts to expand the availability
of formal and nonformal education throughout the country and to improve its
quality by making it more relevant to the manpower requirements of the economy.
The first Bank Group education project (Credit No. 347-PA) is a key component
of Paraguay's overall educational reform program and was designed to assist
the Government in developing a more effective system of secondary and voca-
tional education. Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily
and the schools will be functional in 1977. The proposed project represents a
continuation of the Bank Group's efforts in the sector and is designed to meet
Paraguay's urgent need for nonformal vocational training programs throughout
the country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A Staff Project Report entitled "A Vocational Training Project in
Paraguay" No. 1020-PA, dated April 22, 1976, is being circulated separately.
A loan and project summary is provided as Annex III.
35.       Initial discussions with the Government on the possible composition
of a Vocational Training Project were held with a Bank reconnaissance mission
in August/September 1975. Preparation/appraisal of the project, with ILO
assistance, was completed in October/November 1975 and negotiations were held
in Washington from April 6 to 7, 1976. The Paraguayan delegation was led by
Dr. Carlos Chavez, Undersecretary of Finance.
Objectives and Content
36.       The proposed project would increase the vocational training capa-
city of SNPP fourfold and thereby respond to the urgent training needs of
the economy for skilled and managerial workers. It would provide SNPP with
physical facilities necessary to establish a national infrastructure, extend
mobile training action, strengthen the advisory services to enterprises
and introduce management training. Emphasis would be given to accelerated
training for rural youth, as well as in-plant training and management train-
ing. Specifically, the project comprises:
(a) expansion (construction, furnishing and equipping) of voca-
tional training centers in Asuncion and San Lorenzo, in-
creasing the existing capacity from 205 to 545 trainee
places;
(b) construction of four new vocational training centers in
Hernandarias (site of the Itaipu Dam), Encarnacion (Site of
the Yacyreta Dam), Chore and Coronel Oviedo providing 495
trainee places;



- 11 -
(c)  two mobile training workshops and 24 sets of equipment and
transport for about 1,500 trainees; and
(d)  technical assistance comprising 10-1/2 man-years of expert
services and 5-1/2 man-years of fellowships.
37.       The vocational training centers would operate on a two-shift basis
with accelerated traLning for the unemployed in the mornings and upgrading
training for employed workers in the afternoons. All centers would, in
addition, serve as administrative bases for the mobile training units, which
would circulate to towns and villages too small to justify a fixed center.
The proposed facilitiLes would permit training to be carried out in 38 differ-
ent occupations in the industrial, agricultural and services sectors, as well
as provide overall management training. Taking into account the different
needs of trainees attending the upgrading and accelerated courses, the Govern-
ment    gave assurances to the Bank that within one year of loan signing
accelerated training courses would be organized separately from upgrading
courses (Section 3.09 (i) of the Loan Agreement).
38.       All trainirLg would be based on occupational analysis and flexibility
would be ensured thrcough the use of short self-contained training modules.
National standards would be established for recognized skilled occupations,
trade testing carried out and certificates awarded. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that within one year of loan signing the aforementioned
techniques would be introduced and closer coordination with employers would be
established (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
39.       A placement service for the trainees, a tracer system to follow-up
their career development, and evaluation procedures to assess the suitability
and effectiveness of the training programs would be established on a permanent
basis. The Government, with the assistance of the US Economic Mission, has
already initiated a pilot project for the establishment of a tracer system.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that within one year a loan sign-
ing the tracer system, and the evaluation procedures would be inade operational
on a permanent basis (Sections 3.06 and 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
40.       The in-plant training service, initiated with UNDP/ILO assistance to
train personnel for the hydropower scheme, would be expanded to a national
service under the project. Technical assistance would thus be included in
the project to assist SNPP to provide a service to help enterprises diagnose
training needs and implement on-the-job training programs.
41.       The project would expand the existing mobile training program by
providing two mobile agromechanics and carpentry workshops for courses in the
larger communities and 24 sets of equipment and transport for training in
13 rural-oriented specialties in less accessible regions.
42.       A management consulting and training unit would be established as
a separate division oE SNPP but under the control of its Goverrning Council.
It would be charged with two principal functions. The first, aimed at the
modern sector, would be carried out mostly in Asuncion concentrating mainly



- 12 -
in the field of industrial engineering. Implementation would be by seminars
and courses with follow up consulting visits to enterprises. The second
would be to train small businessmen in the interior of Paraguay. The manage-
ment consulting and training unit would organize courses for SNPP instructors
of the regional centers and mobile units, who would in turn include elemen-
tary management courses in their programs. To ensure continued relevancy of
the management unit's activities, the Government assured the Bank that the
management program would be evaluated annually in consultation with employers
associations (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
43.       To operate the centers and mobile units, an additional 65 instruc-
tors, 5 supervisors, and 6 management trainers would be required. Instructor
trainees would be recruited from amongst former graduates of the formal voca-
tional and agricultural schools who have adequate practical experience and
trained in instructing techniques by the SNPP's own instructor training unit.
Supervisors would be selected from existing instructors and sent abroad for
training in the organization of training centers, vocational training planning
and evaluation techniques. Personnel to form the management consulting and
training unit would be sought amongst engineers in various fields and sent
abroad to receive training in industrial engineering and management techniques.
44.       The project technical assistance is designed to supplement assis-
tance being provided by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. It com-
prises (a) 6-1/2 man-years of specialist services and 3 man-years of fellow-
ships to assist the SNPP in establishing the management consulting and training
unit; (b) 3-1/2 man-years of specialist services to promote in-plant training
programs on a national basis; (c) 2-1/2 man-years of fellowships to train the
supervisors of the regional vocational training centers; and (d) 1 man-year
of specialist services to assist in reorganizing SNPP's management system and
to expedite the preparation of equipment lists for the project during the
start-up period. The cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$45,000
per man-year of specialist services and US$18,000 per man-year of fellowship.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$5.7 million, in-
cluding physical contingencies of US$0.4 million and price contingencies of
US$1.0 million. The proposed Bank loan of $4 million would finance about 70%
of the total project cost, covering all of the foreign exchange cost of US$3.05
million and US$0.95 million of the local currency cost of US$2.65 million.
Local cost financing of this order is justified in Paraguay on the grounds
referred to in para. 13. The balance of project costs, estimated at US$1.7
million, would be provided by the Central Government Budget (Annex III,
Page 2).
46.       Since the operation of SNPP will substantially expand with this
project in terms of both the number of trainees and types of programs offered,
the recurrent expenditure will triple in five years. With the present cash
flow, SNPP would enter into deficit in 1978. By 1980, when the project
is fully operational, recurrent costs would reach US$1.6 million, while
income derived from the payroll tax would amount to only US$1.1 million.



- 13 -
Therefore, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would take the
steps necessary to increase the funds available to SNPP in such amounts as
shall be necessary for the efficient operation of the training program (Sec-
tion 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
Implementation
47.       The Director of SNPP would be responsible for the overall adminis-
tration of the project. He would be assisted by four full-time project staff:
an experienced administrator, an architect, a procurement specialist and an
accountant, all appointed in consultation with the Bank. During the start-up
period, it would be necessary to strengthen the project staff; a short-term
consultant in management and on equipment specifications is therefore pro-
vided under the projEct. Appointment of the project staff wouLd be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the loan.
48.       Sites for five of the six project centers have been identified.
Although the locations are suitable, some sites are small. No major problems
are anticipated with regard to the acquisition of more land adjacent to the
present sites. Assurances were obtained from SNPP that, in principle, any
remaining sites still to be identified would be selected in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       Architectural design work for the vocational training centers would
be assigned to consultant firms-acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were ob-
tained that the project staff supported as necessary by other technical staff
of SNPP would review the architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and, before subiassion to the Bank, the Director of SNPP would certify
that they meet econom:ic and functional standards and costs and the educational
objectives of the project (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement).
50.       Finally, to monitor the performance of the project and to evaluate
its effectiveness, the Government has undertaken to complete a preliminary
assessment of the results and experience gained during implementation within
three months of the Closing Date of the project (Section 3.10 of the Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Since the civil works are of small size (averaging
US$320,000) and at scattered locations, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate, but they would not be precluded from bidding. Contracts for
the procurement of furntiture and equiment would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines except
that furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$15,000 or more would be procured on the basis of local procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Procurement under these procedures would not in aggregate exceed
US$145,000 (correspond:ing to about 10% of the total cost of furniture and



- 14 -
equipment). Domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers tendering under
international competitive bidding procedures would be allowed a preferential
margin equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of compe-
titive imports, whichever is lower.
52.       The Government gave assurances that SNPP would adequately maintain
and repair the buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the project
(Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of four years.
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$50,000 is included for expenditures
made after January 1, 1976 to cover the starting up costs for timely execu-
tion of the project. The financing would include expenses for professional
services, site development, technical assistance and project administration.
Conclusions
54.       The expansion of Paraguay's vocational training program through
the proposed project is expected to yield significant benefits for various
key sectors of the economy, as well as to help improve the country's income
distribution. The project would contribute to reducing the critical shortage
of manpower for development projects, particularly in the agricultural and
power sectors, and also help increase the managerial capacity of the country,
which is considered to be a major bottleneck for the growth of the industrial
sector. At full development of the project by 1980-85, the annual output of
SNPP trainees is expected to almost quadruple, and around 450 persons would
receive managerial training annually. With regards to the education sector,
the project would promote greater relevancy of education to the overall needs
of the economy by strengthening SNPP, which is the major institution for non-
formal vocational training in Paraguay. Finally, the project would help in-
crease the employment and earnings opportunities among the lowest groups on
the income scale, including underemployed rural youth and the urban unem-
ployed. By training and retraining workers in the rural areas, where coloni-
zation schemes are underway, the project would contribute to meeting the
Government's objective of doubling rural family income within 10 years.
55.       Although SNPP has improved its use of available resources, it is a
young organization with limitations in is structure and management. Steps
would be taken through the proposed project to strengthen its organization
and management by providing technical assistance, and by relying on only a
few fixed training centers and several mobile training units. This strategy
would provide the needed flexibility in meeting training needs without put-
ting undue strain on the management. Special provision has also been made
under the project for the Government to evaluate annually SNPP's activities
to ensure their efficiency and relevancy. Another difficulty that SNPP has
faced in the past has been related to the provision of adequate and timely
funds for its operations. As noted earlier, assurances have been obtained
from the Government that it would take the steps necessary to increase the
funds available to SNPP in such amounts as shall be necessary. In particular,
agreement was reached with the Government on the annual allocation of funds



- 15 -
that would be made available to SNPP to ensure the efficient implementation
of its activities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I
(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. The following additional condition of effectiveness has been
included: that the project staff within SNPP responsible for executing the
project have been employed (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
Loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 21, 1976






ANN= I
Page 1 Iof L pages
TAbLE 3A
PARAGUAY            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU MZ21                ---
PARAGUAY                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES 119701
TOTAL      406.6                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      161.5                     1960       1970   ESTIMATE         HONDURAS       EL SALVADOR    COSTA RICA **
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                    210.0       330.0      410.0              270.0      290.0       560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLIONI             1.7        2.2        2.4                2.5        3.4         1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PEP SOUARE KM.                        4.o         6.0        6.o               22.0      165.0        34.0
PER sO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..          ..       15.0                 ..      448.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAbD         14i.       45.0       42.0               49.0       40.0        33.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE PEP THOUSAND        16          11.0        9.0               17.0       10.0         6.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           .        67.0         ..                 ..       67.0        62.0
LIFE FPECTANCY AT EIRTH (YPSI         ..        59.0       62.0               49.0       65.0        68.J
GRCSS AEPRnDUCT InN RATE               .          3.2        3.2                3.4        3.4         3.4
POPLLA'TON GROWTH RATE (I)
T rT AL                               Z2          2.5 /      2.6                2 2.7      3.2         3.3 /a
URRAN                                 _.0         3.4                           7.9        3.5         4.7
URBAN POPULATION It OF TCTALI          36.0        36.0         .                32.0       38.0        46.0
AGF STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.9/b      46.4       b4.9               46.7       46.2        49.0
IS TO 64 Y'ARS                       50.2 7      50.4       51.1               50.9       50.4        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.9 7       3.2        L.o                2.4        3.4         3.0
AGE OEPFNDENCY RATIO                    1.0 b            1      .0                1.0         1.0        1.1
ECONOMIC OFPENOENCY RATlO               1.7        1.6         1.7                1.5 J/     1.6 /a      1.6 /b
RAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOUI           ..         ..        15.9               17.4          .        30.2
USFRS (N OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..          .                  ..         .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDI          550.0       700.0       750.0             800.0     1090.j /b    540.0
LAROR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (U)         56.0        53.0       I9.o               65.0       47.0  E     43.0
UlNRMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)           ..         3.5  b     3.5                d.0       10.0         5.1 Ic
INCrME DISTRTBUTION
T OF PRIVATE INCOME PECDC 8Y-
HIGHEST  Sf OF HOUSFHOLDS               ..       30.0         *-               32.9 Ib    20.6
HIGHPST 20Y Oc HOUSEHOLDS               .        62.0                          65.3       50.6 ad
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         4.0         *-1. 6                       3 7
LOWEST  40t DO HOUSEHOLDS              .6 ..                  ..                6.4       12.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OW4ERSHIP
_ ________ ___ _______________
T OWNEO PY TOP EON OF OWNERS              ..         ..         .                57.3       75.0
t ONNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNERS           6. ..                  .                 0.5        6.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1700.0 /b. 2340.0 fc   2410.0             3?10. /c   4030.0      1630 .0
POPULATION PYR NURSING PEFSON             ..     2310.0 7   2300.0                 ..      960.0      1690.0
POPULATION PEP HOSPITAL BED           430.D0/d    620.0      670.0              570.0      520.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES It Or REQUIREMENTS)        112.0       121.0      119.0               96.0       a2.0        10.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY1              76.0        74.0       73.0               58.0        51.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSF         40.0 Ie     41.0         ..               25.0        18.0       35.0
DEATH PATE (/THOUI AGES 1-4               ..        6.9        3.2               ID.O         7.0        6.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      104.0If      93.0         ..               91.0        90.0 /e   112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     10.O        17.0         ..               10.0        1.0-       29.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIPST AND SECOND LEVELI             12.0        12.0       12.0               12.D       11.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
It OF SECONDARY)                      7.0         6.0        6.0               1B.0        31 .0      10.0/d
ADULT LITERACY RATE ITI                   ..       79.0         ..                  .        56.0       89.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PEP ROOM (AVERAGE)              2Z-6                                                   .          .1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (SI                      94            ..b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 13.0 .b
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (t)                     1.2         ..         .. 2
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          83.0       71.0       66.0               57.0        85.0       71.0
PASSENGER CAPS (PfQ THOU POP)            2.0        7.0         7.0               5.0        10.0       23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            55.0       91.0       106.0             120.0       190.0      591.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.7        1.7         1.7                1.0        3.6        6.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AlgaI
Page 2 of I Pages
iens otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to an-y year between 1959 and 1961, for 191 between 1968 and 1970, end for Abet Recent Estoaste between
1971 end 19173.
mmCosta rIca has been oelected as an objective country since ft ha    vfisiar resource bases and population ales as Praguay, and he. attained euob
higier standards of social develorpment end economic growth.
PARACGLItY      190     /    Due to migration, the growth rate is l-owr then the rate of natural inoreasel      lb 962;         Re~gi.etred, not all
practicing in the cuvniryi    Id Including medical centons;     /a  191613;     af  Including priear    acteing echnola;
,jTotal, urbaen and rural.
&22Q0   /a  Due to miogruttoo, tie growth rate to lower then the rate of natural incrtease;    /b  Regisierec. only;   /.  Coverage
of data unoc  d;~       Inclu,ding primary evening schools.
MOST RECET ESTiMATEs      a   Due to migretion, the grovth rate is lover than the rate of natural Increase;      ab  Including ruideicee 
giNIfigu        1970     a.  Ratio of population under 1!; and 65 end .oer to total lator force;    A   1967-68;    /c Registered, not nll practicing in
the country.
EL. itIViMi      1970        FWRaio of Popuintiun under 15 and 69 and over to totsal lbabr force;   /b  Including workers expelled Pros Hondu,s.,
~C  Excludes Constry;     id  Pojpulation,l  /   including primary evening schools.
COSTA RICA      19710   i'   Due to Inmigretlon, the grouth rats is higher than the rate of nature], Increase;     /b  Ratio of pcopulation under 15 and
i5 and ovr to total labor force;     /c  Open unemiployment;   Id  Excluding teacher tmraiing.
R7, kpr-i 1.3, 1976
DEFNrrl(a bS OF sOrItL tIliCATORs
Totad  - Total sufc     re   opisn      edarssdisodwea                                 ouatiso Panora tsr- Pere"     - Population divided by nonher of practi-
- T.C.1.-f.-  r, c-ptIIng I..  r.. sB  i.l..d-C.r..cing mete sod female gradusts osee.se, "rie'or "nertifiedll cirs-c
Aslic. - jest recent esUtlel   of agrilotrcal area need Mepenrari-iyr cePer-            sod asitat       recalees with treaitg cc a-perisese
m-asntly far crops, pastures, aarkcet & bitchen gardens or to Lie fsallve.           cuouherfo  per hospital bed - POPu1athon diwidej by somber of hospital
~.-VitBUS'>  V.N? .r"pit  Br ..rk,,t ri... ~ -I.-bodo -avetis. is public an                    private gee    al e  spatatteed hsi
lated ho same covesion ntbud as Wfortd Reek Atlas ('19 72-74 koala).                  ast.s. fr.chtoialt   ando prvetIve care.o..-d                  ..bib
..d  U.1 . "tt. -t.                                  ~    ~~~~~~~~Par capita euPel  fclres(1o  eitraas       Compared fro
?opaarbc  (aI-yr  ellsco)- A of  oin  ire, ifsot  calehlc  ansagstapr     per day; available suPPlies coprise do-stis production.
of two and- ycer sec testes.                                     I~~~~mports less aepoeta, and chas0ea is conc, se  -oppjic  -oclMd
Population density - Pen uscuor he-il-yea      papulatnlu  per aq- areltt-               to- dierrihorios; rq-lesaor    wer esImated hy    -Yhsd onphns
meter (100 hectares) of total area.                              o~~Logical needs fesoreta~l activity end health cossiderici  e-ir-n-
Po2xatlnn dnntq -Per suronof ePic, lend        0- Cpeted as shore for              mental te-perttrs, body weights, age end eec diorributioca of
agrIultual l ndoly,                                                               PoPulation, aed siswcgtO      for waste at hoijoheid leve
Crita  lt     .t   .   hua.       n-     I-b.h        e  tceicatice                      ospics ne  sPPlY of food Per day; men sapply of food as dofio-d .1
Crud bith  atsper houand- Anua liv  binbeperthouandof  id-shee; requireenecr           for aIl countries seteblished by i"Au E-I,ml
year POPulation, ccisiY firs-year avrgseding In 1960, 1970 end                       teseerob Sl   ievis  Provide  far a siniencO aliss-en  of 60 gram  of
1975 for den-lopiog   -tosti en.                                                     nacs1 Prtein per dsp, and 20 grams of -ondsd pulse protein          of
Crude deeth reto per tho,oond - Anne1 doeche Per thounsef oP mid-poer                    which 1I gteno should ke aelnat protein, chee   standards ore I-'r
poPoIetio., usualty fiveY-yac  eneeeadiEg Is 1160, 1970 and 1975                      ce th  oec..  of 75 gram  ofcciptenad23rmoiaia                    r-
for deceluptag ronstriss                                        rats~~~~Mi  as n- -esre  for the serif, propnsed by FAi o  rio, ThirO, Xi-ci
Irfan .ocialtr rac  f/thn) -doicul iehs ay i,rfnto isle  on  ysse             Fsod Yr-
of age per rhoos...d lIve births.                                                 Prcpt       rti     oopfo        omladplo-Poenupi                    ffo
life  speoonoyat brch  yes) -.vrage -t,-e of Year  of life.eoc                   eie    Eros snimeePsad poies in-gras per day
log ccbich  uoally fivo-oe    avrsn      em      in96, 1970 sod                 Dseth rare (ftho) sear_1-4 - Amas1 deaths per thouseed in .,n -rcP 1-4
1971s t2oe Ancti  tcfr- ottnYears, to children ie this a8e group; seeneet-d as -c Indr-c-r Of
moss  opeooocio rer-in-ras comber of line daughe-n a sona      will                s1-oreition.
hear is her nor-a   t-prod-ctj- period if she aspeciecen preseon age-
spoMTfi   fertilitY 1tote; onltflue-year averages coding in 196i,                  Edonetio
1977 end 1975 for d-volpiog    -roccia                                             dfne     nrllatnto-plasesho -eol,                      ro    l   gse
yopu-srln grostu es(. -tictatl - Copound -ssos         ;eoth estee of old-               peooaeofrmr            colsapptso.lrnr                  chidro   soed
yerP.plro      o  19501-hi, 1960-70, and l9Af to mast  soo   Yea.-                 6-11 yearn but adjuated for different lengths of ptm-ry ci-toito.B
Poploto ooth, cts (It) -      io    -tupotd Mue      -rowt  rats Of coa                 o    mstiswc.nvesleeslo,srlsscnc                         med10
piopolfis   difrn       etlln       fohcaecnyafo Boear-                                Leos noses Pupils are hel   or shav  the official nabool   gs-
hiiyo      ic    mn   cntiesC.       O   --I      ..    c,.Jn                      Adjusted enrollment rti   - eodr       col- CospeCed so above; e          d
dirh.a -a   deltion ( -2 ofttl -. fotfa of frba  t cc orslPopulbc1 m,                   e  ed ..eclos  requie  so lean..t four years at approvd primary jon-  -
diffrer   doftoI.. s   ftra      roorcIffc         uyss      tly of dtat              clos, pralAs- gererol. -rtorurin    or teerher training ivrrolo        v
Assog--t oncrurte      - hl,n(-4y.             ,PoPits of 12 to 17 Yeses of age, -ntreepodn-eu                                            ors     r  goneroljy
iRe sructre (prnooO - hildrn (0li pera),nesting-age (15-6f peers),emld.
so  ntcd (65 veers and ace) as percetages of old-year population.             Yaso      coln      endd(is          o   eodlvl)-Ttlyano
A- eedoyrti o - baths of pops.istbo  cedar 15 e-d 65 ad ove   to                  cole;s annaolvl                o   'seoadionel  intuto Tmop onp ftc
thoas of ages ii thbrO5   if.h.HS no                                                      omleelye   -olde    ._       -   IoI      Cci       =Y      -t11
E.cononi d-apendcy roijo. - latin of poPuItis- under 15 and 65 and over               fonaio    soPesly eerf o     ronsr)-fonind            suiuininld
to ch. labor facne to age group of 15-if yearn.                                       techoine    1 todootilo    te    rgasiio        prt     cosdnl
fanily Pansio     on aetro (-mistite. thou) - Conuistiva umiber of                  r a     depdrtments of aeotder iprigrst-ianst.d.              d-j
accptors of birth-coto       evcsudr       upcsofntoa            Ofamil            Adul tite    rcny rat  (7  -titedryt adults  abetorodso       wce)o
planing Program   i..o looi- o-                                                      fercet_ geocora     ault.population agbed 15 years ond oe.-.      -
family pl-oion - usrs(7 of earned wos)-PrncgsOf mactled                                  Pretg       ftt:d1          O-.in..         5Y--.d-
women of utnild-hbocteg ego (ti-4b yeu       -vb  one  teh-coor-I devices          Roni
to oi.   aridsnee     in sman ego grop                                            Parsons per coo  (aver-age  - Average somber of person   per room in, sonpird
ftpl.y~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~t                                            r-~~~tnentioml- dwelings in -rkom  -res, dwellings sac     ._ o-p-rarice
Ea-L Ibr      -.cto,e-E---Intj                       p   o                               ssoncturee ard oncorpied parts.
Toa thefoc    ctoor.i-to        noot    atc     pros,eoud--ccpe dtsetlinigetwiubor ped cater 07)                               - tpird nonventioal d_ell-
aed   fre     n    nmlydhtscudn              osons       tdn       r.                 legs turbs ad    -tta   ara     Ithent isside or outside piped sorer
deiiioabovrrs              onrcooeno         oposi.facilities as prernetoge Of nI oncupied delns
lbrforeI"     eiulue(."         Aogricut-rl 1ehsr force (in fr_isig.               Access to lcrct.te           l   wlig)-Cnecoa               aeloswt
Isresry,  onnie  aedfiohagl s  pereetag  oforal  abor  orce     eletricity in. alinlg quaters as percent of totaL Iw11ollosi,       ra
goemolye ftof laor fore) e-plocpoyed arc u-uohy drifted en persons               sod corl orea_
abc are abl  sod w1ilig to rekn . job, our of a Jab on a gives day,              -ura doslio1 somecdtoeetiir...                  Cmue       n  hv    o
remaind out of s jobh..ad ..ekiog sak Ice a      pecifiod amma                        Coveltdoasltabga.only
dperiod nor e-teeding one noc; say not he coprhsbetweenonree
due cc different delinitlone cf unemployed and --.c of dora, e.g.,                Csoro
employment ofieLLiati-tlo     . nple sureys, -mpslisorY _mapjomn                    ai e    iea(erto          v)- l       ye-fteanr          orrdcbod
inacteoco.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~casts to general public per thousoni of population; emniades o--
bonus distribstion   - Pe--erga of prIvate leeI_     (boch in ca   sod                  reic ..s.    neIo s ftecg- u da -- re. foe reen  feera may ajc-t he rofma
hicd) recaoc-d by rlahest 51.~ richer: SOC, . po  t 201. oi  pors                    simde ret   - onitie  aictasd-t  o liec-o.tIrs-       -tb
10% of hooseholdo.                                                                 Pesenga Bosa (Oanri. thouto)ilb     seeent       omrs.dcror          onli
bintribution of land oraerohip - Per-eCoge- of 1.od osnid by u'e,thtbtt                  vehice.thnBgtpro.            1d     m.   ...h.s           diiB
l0Ot and poorest 107. of lend ouen#lcrnr                                                       khy     n   aS     -   _inos  conesption of Indu-cl,.  cn,
H-alth aad Nutritim                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~Oarnsi1, public and private electricity In kilceatt h._n per ospits,
PIs1aich sad partIn                                                                      gen..s11y based on plrOdotian dat. without stisarase for loosen it
Poroarin pe poefiae - Popolacien divided by obrone   of practicing                  grida hot al11sing for Imports nd emporna of ele-trisiry.
physisI.s. qualified lern e nedicI school at colneesty level.                     Rwsprint (ho/yr per oar) - Pee capita emnus no-seprios Is bilagrou
estimatd iron domesti    prdalocla  ptia net imports of ne_oprjot



Amuu I
Actual          Eat.PrJce                                        19 73 -   1975 -    1980 -   19 74    19 76   I2AO
1973      197:4     L 75   ~    2.       ii...   ii9..               19 75    19 N       ?
NATIONA.L ACCOXEI
CGonwtaut 1972 PrIcas in Million US8$                         A,rehanual Growth RNatma            As Pereirt of (D!
Gross Domestic Product             832.0     888.6      0.8      1036.0    1404.2  1989-.4              8.0        7.9       7.r2   99.8     100.9    99.6
Gains from Terms of Tratde (+)      -4.1       1.5      -8.9      -10.2       5.1     53.2..                                 .       0.2      -0.9     0.4
Gross Domestic Incomne            81!7        M- iW r  Y!T:      TU!3      TMl      207                 2.8        8.2       7.9   rm-w     -fl71r TrmD
Import (incl. N7S)                 121.1     123.9     166.9      189.3     305.9    501.2             17.4       12.8     10.7     13.9      18.4    21.7
Exports       (import capacity)    110.5     .110 8    124.5       136.6    230.6    410.8              6.1       13.1     114.2    12.4      13.3    16.4
Resource Gap                         T0      **13* ~   -z--*      -   7     -7rT    -wr                                            -r37        37       =
Consumption Expenditures           696.1     '63.9     804.8      872.0    1186.5   1735.5              7.5        8.1       7.2    86.0      85.0    84.2
Tnvestment       (incl. stocks)    141.5     142.2     189.5      206.6     292.9    397.5             15.7        9.1      8.4     15.9      20.1    20.8
Domestic Savings                   122.2     221.4     144.0       154.2    222.8    259.6              8.5        9.1      5.1     13.7      14.9    15.8
National Savings                    126.9    124.5     147.1       153.9    217.0    307.2              7.7        8.1      6.6     14.0      15.0    15.4
)KRCNAWIS       M                            Arorsal Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total.
Imports
Capital goods                     42.8      42.1      73.6        87.8    174.5    340.2             31.2       18.8     14.3     22.2      28.9    27.2
Intermediate goods (wLfueJ1s)     32.8      43.5      53.7       65.3     137.0   321.0              28.0       20.6     18.6     22.9      21.5    21.4
Fuels and related materials         6.8     23.2      24.2        26.1     35.3     50.1             87.5        7.8       7.3    12.2       8.6     5.5
of which:   Petroleum            4.8      L6.4      16.9       18.3      24.7     30.1             86.0        7.9      4.1      8.6       6.0     3.9
Cosmtion goods                 44.9     31.2      97.0       124.7    293.8    732.4             47.0       24.9      20.0    42S.7.    41.0    45.9
Total March. Imports (elf)  T!TI  T4~~~~~~~~7~  ~~~:i  ~ ~   640.6  i~~7    39.5K     20T. 9    17.6    100.0O   100.0    100.0
Exports
Beef                              40.9     311.1      27.6       38.7      89.8    196.7            -12.0      26.5      17.0     17.8      17.2    17.1
Lumber                            11.8      24. 7     32.1       39.0      97.3    231.2             65.0      24.9      18.9     14.2      17.3    18.6
Others                            76.9     118.6     130.9      148.0     337.1   854.4              24.0       20.      20.7 L   68.0      65.5    64.3
Total March. Exorts (fob)        i9.:r'- 4f     -   *TRX        'In.7    1YZ                         21.        22.5     19.5    IM.7      rMo 0     M
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1972    - 100
Export Price Index               129.6     169.4     169.3      181.6     256.6    392.8             14.4       8.7       8..)
Import Price Index               133.6     170.0    181.5       195.1     250.9   341.9              16.5       6.7       6.4
Terms of Trade Index             103.1     100.4      93.3       93.1     102.2   114.9
Exports Volume Index             110.8     115,.2   134.9       156.5     248.7   374.0              10.3      13.0      8s.,
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data it 1972      Prices and Exchange RaLtes           Average Annual Growth RaLtes        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      288.2     315.4    343.8                                             9.1                         35.5
Industry and Mining              156.1     1611.5   181.9                                             7.9
Service                          387.7    404.Z 7   435.1                                            - -
Total                           8r3 2.0   -8877.6   960.8                                             7.5                        100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                         As Percent-of GDP
(Cen it ral - G ove rnme nt)
Current Rteceipts                100.8     11,.4   119.8       133.2     194.0                       9.0      10.1               12.6     12.9     13.8
Current Exedtrs79.9                         83.1     88.2        99.7     146.2                       5.1      10.6                9.1      9.6     10.4
TdeaySavig                  20.9      32.3     31.6         33.5     478T9.4                              8.35                        33       34
Public Sector Investment          32.6      31.9     61.9        73.2     113.1                     37.8       12.8                3.6      7.1      8.1
CENTRAL GOVERNMEN
CURRENT EXPFENDITURE DETAILS                97     Actual        _5         r   197          DETAIL OR                            1974
As % Total Current Expend.)              197     197_4      197       y    76 j~           PUBLIC SECTOR                     US$ million        of Total
Good.soad Services                        19.0    21.9       26.1      27.7    26.9         INVESTHM~    PROGRAM1975-80
Wages and Salaries                        44.1    40.6       42.9      45.6    47.7         Social Sectors                         115           15.5
Transfer Payments                         19.9    20.8       22.0      23.6    23.9        Agriculture                              52            7.0
Other                                     16.9    16.7        9.0       4.3     1.5         Industry and Mi-ning                     8            1.1
Total Current Expenditures               100.0   100.0o     100.0     100.0  1T00.0         Power                                   94           12.7
Transport and commmications             233           31.5
Financial Investment                    238           32.2
__________________________________________________________________________ TotalToalpExdenditues7740                      100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1970-      1973-                          FINANCING
1975       1978
Average ICOR                                        2.6        2.3                               Public Sector Savings               347           46.9
Import Elasticity                                   1.5        1.6                              External Financing                   372          50.3
Marginial Domestic Savinga Rate                     0.2        0.2                              Internal BortGwing                 ..21          2.8.J..
Marginial National Savings Rate                     0.2        0.2                              Total Financing                      740          100.0
IABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Pe    okr(92            Pie         x. Rates)
OUTHIT PER WORKER                 In-1-2a                 f -Total In M5        -ons746      In U.S.Dollars      Perrent ofAverage          1965- 7
165         1974    19 65      19 74     Growth RaLte        1 65       1 74        126        19 74     Growth Rate
Agriculture                     0.35        0.61    57.4       51.2           1.8            642.3      769.3        69.5      69.3          2.1
Industry                        0.11       0.12     18.0       14.8           1.0            891.8     1404.2       96.5      126.4          5.2
Service                         0.15       0.27     24.6       34.0           6.7           1606.7     1498.9      173.8      134.9         -0.8
Total                   57~~   ~   ~~~~~T.  rwU                                    - ~   2-4.4  T1110.8      O.- 100.0   o.          2.1
not applicable         -nill or negligible
not available         -  less than half the
smallest unit shown



LANCE OF PAYMENTS, TEKRNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
tasicuintu in million of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual            Est.                                    Projected                           Average Annual
1973        19 74     T9                         1976       19 78       198    1    9 8              Growth Rate
1975-1980-
SUMMARY BAlANCE OF PAYMNTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                147.6      203.6       224.9                    265.3      414.6       589.0      1398.5                21.2
Imorts (incl. NFS)                                 160.0      233.4       301.6                    367.7      530.5       764.2      1706.1                20.5
Resource Balance (X-M)                             -12.4      -29.8       -76.7                   -102.4     -115.9      -175.2     -307.6
Interest (net)                                      -5.0       -4.2        -4.7                     -6.7      -15.3       -28.2     -118.4
Other Factor Services                                0.7       -1.2        -2.3                      6.3       10.4        12.8      -47.3
CurTent Transfers (net)                              2.0        0.8         0.9                      0.9        1.2         1.3        1.9
Balance on Current Accounts                      __=          f7        -                         -14r         7y       _-1.9        -T7T
Private Direct Investrent                            9.4       19.5        23.4                     26.9       30.8        33.0        35.3                  7.1
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursesents                                     15.2       29.1        72.5                     84.5      107.6       191.4       319.3
-Repny=etst3                                      -10 .2     -lO.10.6    -24.0                    -18.6      -32.5       -47.3     -140.0
Net                        Dbue                               mn 5,0  18,5  48.-5    I       F      r           52       14-4.2   i   79.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                        20.9        35.0        18.2                     15.7       22.6        22.5        6.3
Change in Net Reserves                            -21.2       -38.6       -8.2                      -6.6       -8.9       -12.4      -25.6
Acttl           Eat.
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed           129.4     150.4     200.0
GRANT AND LOAN ODMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like                                                                        Interest on Public Debt                 5.1      5.6       9.8
Repayments on Public Debt              10.1     10.6      15.4
Public MALT Loans                                                                                   Total Public Debt Service              15.2     16.2      25.2
ITdRD                                              -                     24.5
IDA                                                5.1                   11.0
Other Multilateral                                           11.5        32.3
Governments                                       10.0        6.6         9.0                   Borden on Export Ebrnins (%)
Suppliers                                                    16.4         7.0
Financial Institutions                             3.0       31.4         7.0                     Public Debt Service                    10.2      7.9      14,2
Total Public M6LT Loans                              18.1       65.9        90.8
Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1974                  Int. as % Prior Year DO&D              4.2       4.3       6.5
flXTF.IAL DEBT                               DiBbarsed Only             PercWent                      Amort. as % Prior Year DD&D             8.4       8.2      10.2
World Bank                                      15.0                     :
IDA                                            25.4                    16.8                       IERD Debt Out. & Disbursed               12.7      15.0      17.8
Other MIltilateral                              4.0                      2.6                        n  as % Public Debt Old)                9.8      10.0       8.9
Governments                                     70.2                    46.3                           as % Public Debt Service             5.9       8.6       6.5
Suppliers                                      21.0                     13.9
Financial Institutions                          15.9                    10.5                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed                25.6      25.4      26.0
Total Public MuLT Debt                         151.5                   100.0                          as % Public Debt O&D                 19.8      16.9      13.0
as % Pabllc Debt Seryvice             2.6       1.9      1. 3
not applicable                                                e staff estimate
not available                                                 - nil or negligible
... not available separately                                     -- less than half the
but included in total                                           smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (February 29, 1976)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                   Bank   IDA /1   Undisbursed
Ten loans and credits fully disbursed.                   21.8   21.4          -
347     1972    Paraguay      Secondary Education         -     5.1        4.1
1037     1974    Paraguay      Livestock IV              10.0      -        7.5
509     1974    Paraguay      Small Farmer Credit &
Rural Development          -   11.0       10.0
1059     1974    Paraguay      Highway IV               14.5       -       14.4
587     1975    Paraguay      Preinvestment Studies*      -     4.0        4.0
Total Net of Cancellations             46.3   41.5        40.0
of which has been repaid              6.5    0.4
Total now outstanding                  39.8   41.1
Amount sold                    0.3
of which has been repaid     0.3
Total now held by IBRD/IDA             39.8  41.1        40.0
/1   Before Exchange Adjustments.
*    Not yet effective,
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - February 29, 1976
Type of                    Amount in US$ million
Year    Obligcr         Business                Loan     Equity     Total
1974    FINAP S.A. Wood Processing              4.4       1.0        5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    4.4       1.0        5.4
Total undisbursed                       0.6       0.7        1.3



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   Projects in Execution and Notes on Completed Projects I/
Credit 347-PA    First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
After a seven-month delay due to a recess in both houses and an
ensuing backlog of pending legislation, the Credit Agreement was ratified by
the Congress on September 14, 1973, and the Association declared it effective
on October 30, 1973. Key staff of the project implementation unit have
been appointed and, at this stage, no special problems are envisaged for the
proper carrying out of the project. Since the Government met CIAP's 1973
fiscal targets, the second tranche of the Credit, which was conditioned on the
Government's meeting these targets, has been released. Project implementation
is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Loan 1037-PA      Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 21, 1975; Closing Date:
February 28, 1979).
The loan became effective on February 21, 1975 after a ten-week
delay in meeting the conditions of effectiveness. The delays were caused by
a recess in Congress, which ratifies the Loan Agreement. However 23 subloans
totalling US$657,000 had been committed already at that time, and 10 of these
involving 14% of the funds committed are for small (individual) farmers
(receiving less than US$5,000) and farmer cooperatives envisaged during
appraisal. Progress is satisfactory and by end of February 1976 the Bank had
disbursed US$2.5 million.
Credit 509-PA     Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April
14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979).
The credit became effective on April 14, 1974, after a four month
delay in meeting the conditions of effectiveness. It finances a credit pro-
gram for small farmers and also provides financing for the construction of
social and physical infrastructure such as schools, health centers and roads,
as well as for the provision of land titles and technical assistance. The
three UNDP-financed foreign consultants, the Project Coordinator and 45 field
technicians have commenced work. Project operations commenced early in
April, 1975 and by end of February 1976 IDA had disbursed US$1.0 million.
The project is proceeding well; 400 small farmers have recieved credit and
land titles, but there are substantial cost overruns in civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purpot to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Loan 1059-PA     Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979).
Contractors have been selected for the execution of the civil works
and consulting services have been retained for technical assistance to the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications for maintenance studies and trans-
portation planning. Contracts have also been let for supervision of the civil
works.
Credit 587-PA    Preilnvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, october 17,
1975; (Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1980).
The credit is not yet effective due to delays in completing the
steps required to fulfill the Conditions of Effectiveness. The Credit is
likely to be declared effective by the end of April.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
PARAGUAY - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Paraguay
Amount:           US$4 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard Third Window terms.
Project
Description:    The project comprises:
(a) expansion (construction, furnishing and equipping)
of vocational training centers in Asuncion and San
Lorenzo, increasing the existing capacity from 205
to 545 trainee places;
(b)  construction of four new vocational training
centers in Hernandarias (Itaipu), Encarnacion
(Yacyreta), Chore and Coronel Oviedo providing
495 trainee places;
(c) two mobile training units and twenty-four sets of
equipment and transport for about 1,500 trainees; and
(d) technical assistance comprising;
(i)  7 man-years of expert services and
3 man-years of fellowships for management
training;
(ii) 3 man-years of expert services for in-plant
training;
(iii) 1/2 man-year of expert services for equipment
specification; and
(iv) 2-1/2 man-years of fellowships to train
supervisors of regional centers.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated                                                (US$ million)
Cost:                                          Local      Foreig      Total
(1)  Vocational Training Centers:
(a)  Village Victoria                   0.18       0.23        0.41
(b)  San Lcorenzo                       0.41       0.28        0.69
(c)  Hernarndarias                      0.38       0.28        0.66
(d)  Encarrnacion                       0.24       0.19        0.43
(e)  Chore                              0.27       0.10        0.37
(f)  Coronel Oviedo                     0.17       0.14        0.31
(2)  26 Mobile 1'raining Units               0.03       0.55        0.58
(3)  Professional Services                   0.11       0.01        0.12
(4)  Project Administration                  0.18       0.0(        0.18
(5)  Technical Assistance                    0.04       0.53        0.57
Base Cost Estimates                     2.01        2.31       4.32
(6)  Contingencies:
(a)  Physical (9%)                      0.17       0.20        0.37
(b)  Price (22%)                        0.46       0.54        1.00
Total E'roject Cost                2.64       3.05        5.69
Financing
Plan:
Bank        Gov't
Fiscal Year                         Expenditure  Financing   Financing
(US$'000)    (US$'000)  (US$'000)
1977                                  1,218      830          388
1978                                  2,044    1,445          599
1979                                  1,766    1,250          516
1980                                    673      475          198
Total Project Cost                5,701    4,000        1,701
Procurement
Arrangement     Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, except that
furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages
of at least US$15,000 or more would be procured on the basis
of local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement under
these procedures would not in aggregate exceed US$145,000.
Contracts for civil works would be awarded on t:he basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Staff Project
Report:        A Vocational Training Project in Paraguay, No. 1020-PA
Education Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1    -   Tiaetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project - four months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project - Ministry of Justice
ancl Labor and SNPP with Bank/ILO assistance.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, August 30, 1975, and
date of the first Bank mission to consider the project,
November 10, 1975.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission - November 10, 1975.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations - April 7., 1976.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness - July 31, 1976.
Section II   -    Special Bank Implementation Actions
A supervision mission is scheduled to visit Paraguay soon
after loan signing.
Section III  -    Special Conditions
(i) Within one year of loan signing: (a) organize upgrading
training courses separately from accelerated training
(para. 37); and (b) base all training on occupational
analysis, ensure course flexibility by the use of self-
contained training modules, establish closer coordination
with enterprises, establish national training standards
for recognized skilled occupations and organize trade
tests and award certificates (para. 38);
(ii) Within one year of loan signing strengthen the tracer system
(para. 39);
(iii) Eva:Luate annually the management consultancy and training
program, in consultation with the employers associations
(para. 42);
(iv) Provide the necessary funds to carry out the project and to
take appropriate measures to ensure the availability of
operating funds to meet the increased recurrent expenditures
of SNPP's Vocational Training Programs (para. 46);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(v) Cause the project staff supported by necessary
technical personnel of SNPP to review the architec-
tural designs, equipment and furniture lists and
specifications and certify that they meet economic
and functional standards and costs before submission
to the Bank (para.. 49);
(vi) Select all sites in accordance with criteria accept-
able to the Bank (para. 48);
(vii) Adequately maintain and repair the project facilities
(para. 52);
(viii)  Within one year of loan signing, establish evaluation
procedures to assess the suitability and effectiveness
of SNPP's training programs (para. 39); and
(ix) Within three months of the closing date prepare and
send to the Bank a report providing a preliminary assess-
ment of the project, of its results and experience
acquired during implementation (para. 50).
(x) A special condition of effectiveness of the loan would
be the hiring of the project staff required for the
execution of the project (para. 47).



B 0 L I VU IA
2r rx / Xxo C  H A C  O                   A  D
N7  h  n br        N J  /              / n             bn
2  ;X~k9-oEsXvN U E V A   PAR  --=---\U ELlP21
1 /  <   '  14     t FoloGoorot   ~~~~~~~~B R A  Z I L
JI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sr         -, 0N rr H~ A0r
2o  U ER b20  0   k                                     22r
us,  ~ ~ ~ J,  ~~~,              CSSCPOIO
VOCATIO L  TNARGIN TD A
A   RIwr G   E   NC            . t /t A Z T   I   N
VOCA IONLmeiE TRINN   PROJECTs  %sL\A4U; X  x  / 9 fr1TA7 PutA  
.-d AF-: tJP                               A
2   . '  6.         C ^9  E   SE. sr
008800.00.0/00.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~N  GEN -I 



