RESTRICTED
FILE    C    PY               Report No. P-839
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE INDUSTRIAL AND MINING DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF IRAN (IMDBI)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF IRAN
June 3, 1970



REPORT AID Il 0       - .ThN OF THE PRESIDENJT TO THE FXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROi'OSED LOAN TO THE INDUSTRIAL AND MINING
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IRAN VoITH THE GUARA.NTEE OF IRAN
1.        I submit the followi.ng report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equ)ivalent to US$50 million to the
Industrial and Itning DeveloDment Bank of Iran (IMDBI) with the guarantee
of Iran.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        IMDBI was established in 1959 to provide long and medium-term
financing to private industry in Iran. The Bank Group assisted in the
formation of IIDBI and provided a first loan of $5.2 million in 1959.   With
the exception of one loan of $3.5 raillion from US-AID in 1959, the Bank has
been IMDBI's principal source of foreign exchange. To date, IMDBI has
received five Bank loans amounting to $104.7 million. The first two loans
are fully disbursed; the third is expected to be fully utilized by June 30,
1970, the Closing Date, and the fourth has been fully committed to IMDBI's
sub-borrowers. The most recent loan of $40 million, granted in May 1969, has
been utilized more quickly than was anticipated at the time and as of
April 30, 1970, all of it has been formally comnitted or earmarked for
projects which are in an advanced stage of preparation. The borrower has
now requested a sixth loan of $50 million. An appraisal mission visited
Iran in February 1970.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington
during the week beginning May 25.  The Managing Director, Mr. A. Gasem
Kheradjou and Mr. A. Anavimn, Treasurer, represented ITHDBI and Mr. E.
Shapoorian, Financial Counselor of the Iranian Economic Mission in Washington,
represented the Government as Guarantor.
4.        The proposed loan to IMDBI would be the Bank's sixteenth loan
to Iran. The status of Bank loans to Iran as of April 30, 1970 and comments
on past operations are given in paragraphs 4 to 7 of my raport to the
Executive Directors on the Fifth Road Project in Iran (P-837) dtd
Junc' 3, 1970.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.        Borrower:                The Industrial and Mining Development Bank
of Iran (IMDBI).
Guarantor:               Iran.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies of
US$50 million.
Purpose:                 To assist IMDBI in financing the foreign
exchange cost of industrial projects in the
private sector, mainly in manufacturing.
Amortization:            The initial amortization schedule provides
for repayment over 17 years, including two
years of grace, in 30 approximately equal
semi-annual instalments of principal and
interest, beginning November 15, 1972 and
erding May 15, 1987, but is subject to
change in order ultimately to conform
substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules for subloans and
investments for which withdrawals from the
loan account are approved or requested.
Interest rate:           7 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Industrial and Mining
Development Bank of Iran" (DB-68a) dated June 3, 1970 is attached.
7.        In recent years growth of the industrial sector in
Iran has been very impressive. Between 1962 and 1968, private industrial
investment quadrupled, and value-added in industry increased by 11.6 percent
per annum. To a large extent this growth was stimulated by high protection,
generous tax incentives and the channeling of budgetary funds through
financial intermediaries, such as IMDBI, on concessionary terms.
8.        INDBI was established in 1959 with the assistance of the Bank to
finance private industrial development in Iran through medium and long-term
loans and investment in share capital. IMDBI has been financed largely by



- 3 -
Government funds and Bank loans. Equity constitutes nearly 11 percent
of its total resources at present, and about 20 percent of the capital
shares are held by foreign investors. Budgetary and other government agency
loans carrying an effective interest of between 4 and 5 percent, account
for 62 percent of total resources and the remaining 25 percent consists largely
of Bank loans. Ii4DE is aware that its long-term objective as a private
development bank should be to diversify its sources of finance and to reduce
its reliance on concessionary funds. The management should continue to be
active in its efforts to develop a capital market in Iran in order to
mobilize greater rial resources from the private market for industrial
development. IMDBI is also actively exploring new sources of foreign
exchange financing and has recently negotiated a loan of D1v150 million with
Kreditanstalt fuer Aederaufbau (Kfll).
9.        From its inception, IMDBI's operations have expanded rapidly.
In the last six years, total loan disbursements have quadrupled and IIDBI
has contributed some 13 percent of private fixed investment in industry.
IMDBI's procedures for appraisal of the financial, marketing and management
aspects of projects are satisfactory and its profitability is good. In the
last year, IMDBI is estimated to have earned 14 percent on its equity (after
tax) and dividends increased to 12 percent from 10 percent in previous years.
IMDBI has played an active role in the promotion of industrial projects,
the creation of new industries, the attraction of direct foreign investment,
the assimilation of new technology and the location of industries outside
Tehran.
10.       The prospects for the continuing success of IMDBI are good. It
is expected that IIDBIts loan and equity operations will increase from an
average level of Rials 3,528 million during the last three years to an
average of Rials 6,333 million during the remaining three years of the
Fourth Plan. However, there is a need to strengthen IYDBI's financial
position. In line with the recent increases in other interest rates in
Iran, INDBI has agreed to raise its lending rate from 8 to 9 percent.
11.       LMIBI should also improve its appraisal procedures in order
to make the best use of its resources in implementing the industrial
policy receztly introduced by the Government.  During negotiations IIDBI
agreed to adopt a systematic approach to the evaluation of effective
rates of protection in its appraisal of sub-projects.
12.       IMDBI's profitability should remain good.  A return of between
13 and 15 percent on average equity is expected up to 1972. IMDBI's
borrowings may not exceed seven times its equity, and over the next
5 years collections on lons are expected to cover debt service at least
1.25 times. During the next two years, it is expected that IMDBI Awll need



$86 million equivalent to meet the projected level of its foreign currency
requirements.  The proposed Bank loan of $50 million equivalent is designed
to meet the major portion of this need.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
13.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial and
Mining Development Bank of Iran, the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Government of Iran and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the Draft
Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
1h.       The provisions of the Draft Loan Agreement follow closely the
pattern of Bank loans to development finance companies.
PART V - THE ECONOPIY
15.       An economic report entitled "Economic Situation and Prospects
of Iran" (SA-8a) dated December 31, 1969 was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 7, 1970 (R70-2).
16.       A brief statement on recent developments in the Iranian economy
is ccntained in my report to the Executive Directors on the Fifth Road
Project in Iran (No. P_837) dated June 3, 1970.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE 13ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachment                                   Robert S. McNamara
President
June 3, 1970



