D;ocument of
;9 :;The World Bank
"OR OFFICIAL tJSE ONLY
:'.
MICROFICHE COPY                                               Report No. 10102-PA
Report No. 10102-PA   Type: (SAR)
OLIVER, S./ X~39440/ 16 095/ LA4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
F;BRUARY 19, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
ThLs   doi~ineot   ha   consr e  dIser , t0   a d m ybe   edJ  bY     recipients   o nly     in     the   perforni uem
t h e r   o f f c l a   d u t e &   ts   c o t e n ts   m y   n o t   O t h e zr is e   b e   d c o e d w t ut   W oir l d   B a n k   au t h o   o n c e 0



CURRENCY UNIT
Guarani (G.)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of January 31, 1992)
US$1 = G.1,427
G.1 - US$0.0007
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
A list of abbreviations used in the report
is shown in Annex 12.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
STAFF PPRAISAL REPT2H
LAND USE R,AT OMALIZAT2ON PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNN(RY .....................................          L
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND  .......................................         1
Agriculture in the Economy    ...        ........              I
Major Public Institutions in the Sector                        2
Natural Resource Use in Agriculture                            3
Provious Bank Lending in Agriculture  ...............          5
Losoons from Previous Projects in Paraguay                     5
Lessons from General Bank Experience.                          S
Bank Lending Strategy for the Sector                           8
Rationale for Bank Involvement ......................          8
II.  TRE PROJCT.9
A. Origin and Concept ............................. ..         9
B. Objectives   ..10
C. Project Description ...................   * .. ... .... .  11
Tntroduction  ll........o ........                     1
The Rural Cadastre   .             .12
First Phase .s........  .,.....                    12
Second Phase .                                     14
Third Phase..                                      16
The Geographic Information System                      18
Studies .......................................        21
D. Organization and Implementation         ....               22
Project Management .22
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation                 23
Accounts, Audit and Reporting ................. .    23
E. Costs and Financing             .....     ...              24
Procurement ..24
Disbursements and the Special Account                  26
F. Benefits and Risks                ..                       26
Benefits ......................................        26
Risks   ... .. ;..............  o  ..                  27
Environmental Impact .28
1I1. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS A_D RECOHMENDATION .28
Recomendation ............................... o           29
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission that visited
Paraguay in June 1991, comprising Messrs. S. Oliver (Task Manager), J. McKenna
and G. Garcia-Rivero (Bank) and R. Ronchietto (Consultant). The poer reviewer
for the project was Mr. R. Hanan. The Department Director and Sector Division
Chief were Mosers. Ping-Cheung Loh and M. Wilson, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page Ho.
ANNEXES
1.   Cadastral Component *..... . .  .             .........   . ..           30
1.1  Diagnostic Study of the Existing Cadastre and
Related Institutions        ...... *to .....   .. .... ......      30
1.2  Technical Outline ..............               . .*******e**......*  33
1.3  Training Requirement ......... ..e* . . . . .. ..   .......... .   39
1.4  National Cadastral Service of the Ministry
of Finance               Of .........4                 ...        44
1.5  Project Coordination and Management Unit ..........                49
1.6  Establishment of the Geodetic Grid ................                54
2.   Geographic Information System and Bases for
Agro-ecological Zoning * ...............................                61
2.1  Technical Outline ..........................  .... . .             61
2.2 Basic Work to be Undertaken under the Japanese
PHRD Award .......... ....... t.....    *..o.......  so..............  64
3.   Cost Estimates and Financing ........ ..... to . ......                  66
4.   Technical Assistance and Training .............. ......                  74
5.   Disbursement Schedule ................ * ,* *..* **.*                    75
6.   Schedule of Monitorable Actions ........................                 77
7.   Supervision Plan ....... ... ...............................             81
8.   Documents in the Project File .....        .....................         83
9.   Agreed Plans of Action and Inter-Institutional
Agreements ........ ..                 .....     .....                  84
10.  Terms of Reference for the Studies ....................                  91
11.  Ministry of Agriculture - Outline of Agricultural Policy                105
12.  Abbreviations ....         ..................................... .      110
MAPS    IBRD No. 20569R
IBRD No. 23436



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Republic of Paraguay
Ex.ecuting         The Ministry of Finance
Agencies:        The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Loan AmourAt:      US$29.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace,
with amortization on an annuity basis, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Protlect
Obiectives:     The project would:  (a) improve the Government's information
base, as a means of raising its effectiveness in: (i) land
titling; (ii) the long-range planning of natural resource
management; (iii) the provision of services to agriculture;
and (iv) raising fiscal revenue from the sector; and (b)
provide a basis for strengthening the institutions
responsible for land settlement and for natural resource
management and protection. The project would be part of a
phased strategy to strengthen basic agricultural services.
Proiect
Description:    The components of the project include:  (a) the creation of
a complete multi-purpose rural cadastre for the Eastern
Region and part of the Western Region (the Chaco) and
related socio-economic data base, including a new geodetic
grid implemented and financed by the Inter-American Geodetic
Survey of the U.S. Government; (b) the establishment of a
Geographic Information System as the basis for an economic
land use classification ("Plan de Ordenamiento
Territorial"), and its associated legal and policy studies;
(c) a program of studies, including: (i) institutional
analysis of the agricultural sector, and formulation of
recommendations for change; (ii) analysis of the existing
system of land titling, with recommendations for change
based on the new cadastre; (iii) analysis of policy
affecting land use practices, and recommendations for change
(part-funded and already initiated under a Japanese PHRD
Grant); (iv) analysis of environmental legislation and
regulations; and (v) analysis of and recommendations for the
role of indigenous people in natural resource management.



- ii -
Prolect
Aenefits:       The project would provide the basic data and information
necessary to define and implement a more effective role for
the public sector irL providing services and infrastructural
investment for agricultural development. It would enhance
the Government's ability to regulate the exploitation of
natural resources and to limit environmental degradation.
The private sector would also benefit from a clearer
definition of land capability, an improved basis for the
regularization of land titles and improvement of property
rights, and improved access to support services. The
information to be acquired under the project is necessary,
but not sufficient, to promote sustainable agriculture
within environmental constraints, and to promote the
increase and diversification of production via the uptake of
improved tec-hnology. The project is also a necessary
component in raising the revenue base on which any increase
in productive or protection services w.ll depend. Once
completed, the cadastre will allow an improvement in the
annual collection of the existing real estate tax from less
than US$10 million at present to over US$40 million. On the
institutional side, the project would strengthen: (a) the
National Cadastral Service of the Ministry of Finance, which
would be responsible for the development and maintenance of
the cadastre; (b) the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources
and the Environment of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, which would be responsible for the maintenance,
expansion and use of the Geographic Information System; and
(c) through the program of studies, the broader public
sector apparatus in agriculture.
Proiect Risks:    The project would be technically complex, involving a new
level of technology for Paraguay and placing increased
demands on public institutions. This obviously carries with
it certain risks which would be mitigated by substantial
foreign assistance and by a continuing commitment by the
Bank itself to provide intensive supervision. Two detailed
reviews would be included during implementation. The active
participation of the Resident Mission of the United Nations
Development Program in the provision of technical assistance
and consultancy support would be an important benefit to the
project in this respect. There is some potential for delay
through obstacles that might be presented by vested
interests for whom the completion of the cadastre presents a
threat. This risk is difficult to gauge in advance or to
guard against. However, it is clearly a risk that the
present administration is prepared to take, and as such the
project deserves Bank support.



- iii -
Estimated Costst
Local      Foreign        Total
--     --  US$ million  ------
A. Cadastre
1.  Coordinating Unit                     1.3          1.8         3.1
2.  Systems Office                        1.2          0.7          1.9
3.  Cadastral Mapping                     0.2         18.5         18.7
4.  Cadastral Surveying                   1.4         5.5           6.9
S.  Training                                           0.2          0.2
6.  Cadastral Operations                  1.1          0.3          1.4
7.  Valuation Operations                  1.2          0.2          1.4
8.  Parcel List and File                  0.3          0.1          0.4
9.  Declarations                          0.4          0.1          0.5
Sub-total                                     7.1         27.4         34.5
B.  Geographic Information System             1.4          0.7          2.1
C.  Studies                                   0.1          0.5          0.6
Total Baseline Cost                           8.6         28.6         37.2
Physical Contingencies                    0.2          2.2          2.4
Price Contingencies                       0.2          1.3          1.5
Total Project Cost                            9.0         32.1         41.1
Financinz Plan:
Government of Paraguay               6.2          1.4          7.6
IBRD                                 2.5         26.5         29.0
Cofinancing:
Inter-American Geodetic Survey    -             3.6          3.6
GOJapan                            0.5          0.4          0.9
9.2        31.9         41.1
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY                   19921'   1993    1994    1995   1996    1997
-- US$ million ------
Annual:                    1.0    16.6      1.2     5.0    3.7       1.5
Cumulative:                1.0    17.6    18.8    23.8   27.5    29.0
Economic Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
1/ Includes initial deposit in the Special Account of US$1.0 million, recovered in FY97.



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LA_D USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
Agriculture In the Ec2nom
1.61      The agricultural sector has played an important role in the
impressive economic performance achieved by Paraguay since 1970, and
represents one of the most promising sources of further export-driven growth.
The sector (broadly defined to include crops, livestock and forestry)
generates 30% of GDP, employs 40% of the work force, and provides 90% of
registered merchandise exports. Agricultural products are an important source
of raw materials for industry, and agro-industry contributes some 50% of total
industrial value-added.
1.02      In terms of natural resources, Paraguay is conventionally divided
into two major regions. The Western Region (the Re.ifn Occidental or Chaco),
with 60% of the country's total area of 40 million ha, contains only 2% of the
population and is limited, for reasons of soil quality and climate, almost in
its entirety to extensive cattle production. The Eastern Region (the Regi6n
Oriental), by contrast, has a large proportion of its land area suitable for
crop production, and has three main sub-regions. The Center-South, with 5
million ha, is the area of oldest agricultural development; its high
population, serious problems of sub-economic small holdings (minifundia) and
low yields make it an area of population emigration. The East, with 5.8
million ha, contains the best soils and has the best agricultural potential of
Paraguay. The natural forest cover is being removed at an increasing rate as
the result of colonization and agricultural deved .pment. The North, with
5 million ha, has traditionally been an area of livestock and forestry. It is
an area of recent colonization, with soils of inferior quality to those of the
East although with good agricult.-ral potential under systems of careful
management.
1.03      The development models emphasizing industrialization and urban
growth which characterized many Latin American countries in the period
following the Second World War were not adopted in Paraguay, which has the
lowest level of urbanization in the region. Almost 60% of the population of
4 million lives in the rural areas. Instead of a tendency towards rural-urban
migration, with the resultant increase in the number of marginalized poor
experienced by so many countries, Paraguay has achieved a deconcentration of
its population through settlement of previously-undeveloped parts of the
country. However, this approach is rapidly reaching its limit. The social
and economic development strategy pursued by Paraguay during the past four
decades has led to an increase in the importance of the agricultural sector,
but this has not had a balanced impact on the rural population. Increasing
contradictions have occurred in the structure of land-holding and the welfare
of a growing mass of peasants.



- 2 -
1.04      The economic history of the past two decades is one of strong
growth (1970-1981), followed by periods of stagnation (198e' 1986) and slow
recovery (1987-1991). Between 1970-1981, GDP grew at an annual rate of 8.1%
in real terms, equal to 4.7% per capita. The main driving forces of this
economic growth were a major and sustained increase in agricultural production
and exports and the construction of joint-venture hydro-electric projects with
neighboring countries at Itaipfi and YacyretA on the ParanA river. A
combination of external and domestic factors caused the recession. Reduced
capital flows assocaLued with the completion of the hydro-electric projects
coincided with falling world prices for key agricultural commodities and
adverse weather conditions (floods in 1982-1983, and drought in 1985-1986).
The resultant pressures on the balance of payments, the level of economic
act;Wvity, employment and tax revenues were met with a hesitant and inadequate
polic.y response. In particular, the multiple exchange rate policy, which
started in the early 1980s, introduced severe distortions that were compounded
by large fiscal deficits and excessive monetary expansion. Since the change
in government in early 1989, important progress has been made in the removal
of macroeconomic distortions.
1.05      The performance of the agricultural sector since 1970 has closely
followed that of the economy as a whole. Its annual growth rate between
1970-1981 was 6%, followed by virtual stagnation between 1981-1986 and a burst
of renewed growth, of over 8% per year, between 1986-1990. Absolute declines
in sectoral GDP occurred in 1983 (-2.4%) and in 1986 (-6.1%) as a result of
poor weather conditions. Renewed growth in the late 1980s occurred in spite
of the poor macroeconomic environment, which seems to indicate that
unregistered trade made the evasion of multiple exchange rates and registered
export prices (aforos) a rather straightforward affair; sectoral GDP grew by
5.2Z between 1988-1989, but registered exports of primary commodities
increased by more than 80% over the same period, once the discriminatory
measures had been removed. The system of multiple exchange rates and
arbitrarily-determined aforos presented the sector, and particularly that part
of it which is oriented towards exports, with an extremely uncertain
environment in which to plan both production and investment. Major sectoral
dislocations were avoided because of the existence of irregular trade
channels, which were more readily exploited for unprocessed commodities
(e.g., live cattle, soybeans and timber) than for processed goods (e.g.,
ginned cotton), and thereby introduced specific allocative distortions into
the agricultural sector.
Hajor Public Institutions in the Sector
1.06      Since the change in government in early 1989, the institutional
structure of the agricultural sector has undergone a number of changes. The
rigid and centralized decision-making approach has been transformed, although
a new equilibrium has not yet been reached. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG), which has overall responsibility for the definition of
strategy and policy in the sector, is being reorganized and restructured, and
much debate has surrounded the production of its new carta orgAnica. The
Rural Welfare Institute (IBR), which is responsible for the colonization of



-3-
new areas and settlement of small farmers, is also in the process of being
restructured: whilst it has achi'3ved much of its mandate, ani was largely
responsible for the opening-up of new areas and consequent increases in
production and exports, it is widely recognized as having been inefficient and
corrupt, problems that its present management is working hard to correct. In
order to overcome problems of implementation of rural and regional development
projects, the National Office for Project Coordination and Administratior
(ONCAP) was established in 1983 on an inter-ministerial basis with rece.it
organizational changes, it has come fully under the control of MAG.
Agricultural credit has been provided (in part from Bank and IDB resources)
via the Livestock Fund (PG) at the Central Bank (BCP), the National
Development Bank (BNF) and the Smallholder Credit Bank (CAH), as well as via
rediscounts made available by the BCP through private sectox agro-industrial
and marketing channels.
Natural Resource Use in Aericulture
1.07      The different stages of Paraguay's agricultural development have
all been extractive and/or exploitive of natural resources. With land as an
abundant factor, the natural renewal of fertility and the low level of
intensity of land use allowed this to operate as a sustainable form of
production for a long period. Beginning in the early 1970s, however, the
agricultural sector and the economy as a whole underwent important structural
changes. The Government's major road-building programs quickly put huge, and
hitherto undeveloped, areas within economic access, and large tracts of state
land (tierras fiscales) were distributed to both large and small farmers.
Large-scale internal migration of peasants occurred, coupled with the arrival
of many small- and medium-scale farmers from neighboring countries, mainly
Brazil. Only in the past 30 years has a truly national agrarian economy been
created, and the different phases of evolution of the agricultural sector have
left their mark on the structures of land-holding and production. Indigenous
hunter/gatherers, extensive cattle ranchers, and minifundioLmicrofundio
subsistence farmers are all present, in addition to numerous forms of
production based on small-, medium- and large-scale commercial farms.
1.08      As recently as the early 1950s, the agricultural sector was slow
growing, based on the extraction of forest resources, extensive cattle raising
and crop production, and mainly oriented to domestic consumption with few
export products. By the 1980s, the agricultural sector had become one of the
most dynamic sectors of the economy, driven by export demand and based on the
extension of the cultivated area at the expense of the natural forest. This
major growth in the sector resulted from the strategy adopted in the early,
1960s to promote agricultural and agro-industrial exports. Public sector
expenditure in infrastructure (mainly roads) and land settlement was combined
with private sector investment encouraged by the stable economic and political
environment. Between 1960-1970, an estimated 400,000 people moved to the new
lands of the east and north-east. The early emphasis on settling peasants was
partly replaced by the introduction of larger scale operations, with
significant capital resources and a modern, higher technology approach to
agriculture. The Eastern Region received a major inflow of settlers from



-4-
Brazil$ where the agricultural frontiers of ParanA and Hato Grosso do Sul were
rapidly being reached. As a result, colonization by Paraguayans and
Brazilians has rapidly transformed an area of natural forest into one of major
agricultural growth in a period of twenty years.
1.09      This social and economic development strategy has increased the
absolute and relative importance of the agricultural sector, but this has not
had a balanced impact on the rural population. The acceleration of
agricultural growth at the expense of the natural forest has meant that the
frontier of agricultural production based on the extension of the cultivated
land area will soon be reached. The rate of deforestation and incorporation
of land into productive use has, in fact, accelerated in the aftermath of the
change in government in 1989, as large land-owners have sought to avoid
illegal occupation by the land-less and/or expropriation by the State for
settlement purposes. In addition, there is a potentially serious problem of
increasing degradation and erosion of soils in the areas already taken into
production; there is, in general, a wholly inadequate application of existing
knowledge and technology in the area of soil management. After more than two
decades of dynamic agricultural growth, Paraguay is rapidly approaching a
crucial juncture in the development of its rural areas; the strategy to be
adopted must go beyond the confines of purely agricultural development, and
must emphasize increases in output and productivity in tandem with a
heightened concern with the environment and the preservation of natural
resources*
1.10      The development potential of the agricultural sector (in terms of
under-utilized resources, available technology and markets) is more than
sufficient to allow it to continue to play an important role in economic
growth and development. However, the "easy" phase of Paraguay's agricultural
development is coming to an end. A structural change is required from the
present policy of continuous expansion of the agricultural frontier to a
strategy of intensification of resource use through sustainable agricultural
practices. Clearly-defined property rights are of fundamental importance in
the achievement of long-term changes in land-use practices, and there is a
need to prepare land information systems to provide the basic data necessary
to implement a long-term strategy. The definition of strategy, however, does
not need to wait for the compilation of this detailed data base. Given the
importance of the small farmer and the pioneering nature of much of the
agricultural development achieved to date, a change in priorities in public
sector expenditure, both capital and recurrent, will be required if rational
and sustainable growth is to be achieved in future.
1.11      The challenge now facing the government is that of orchestrating
the change from horizontal development (i.e., expansion of the productive
area, to the vertical development of agriculture by adopting measures to
improve productivity, and its strategy must take account of the major
population growth being experienced. The key issues in the agricultural
sector are: (a) the use and protection of natural resources in sustainable
agricultural production systems; (b) the skewed distribution of land, and the
land tenure system; (c) the weakness and fragmentation of sector institutions;



(d) the lack of agricultural strategy and policy, and of information for their
formulation; (e) the low level of taxation of agriculture and the lack of
efficient tax instruments; and (f) the growing pressure on indigenous
communities in the competivIon for natural resources.
Previous.,     and@E   n@grj!io e
1.12      Since 1975, the Bank has undertaken seven operations in the
agricultural sector, two of which, the Eje Norte Rural Development Project
(Loan 2141-PA) and the Caazap& Area Development Project (Loan 2087-PA), are in
the final stages of implementation, Although an agricultural development
project for the Departments of Alto Paran& and Itap0a was prepared (with Bank
and PAO/CP assistance) in the mid-1980s, it was not appraised by the Bank
because of its major disagreements with the Government's macroeconomic
policies, mainly the multiple exchange rate policy then in force. The most
recent Country Ecoromic Memorandum (Report No. 9147-PA) was issued in Grey
Cover on October 15, 1991.
Le6top., from Previous Proigets in Para2uav
1.13      Four main lessons have been learned from the Bank's involvement in
these o-4rations in the agricultural sector.  Institutional weakness has been
a recurrent theme. The HAG is currently being reorganized and restructured,
and ONCAP now comes clearly under its control. There have been serious
problems of inter-ministerial coordination in the past in integrated rural and
area development projects, which ONCAP has been only partially successful in
resolving. Research and extension have been weak, particularly where the
public sector and small farmers are concerned. There has been a marked
reluctance on the part of the Government to be innovative, and both research
and extension have been consistently under-funded.  What has  -en achieved has
mostly been done by the private sector, including cooperativeb, which has
mAinly worked with imported, adapted technology. The organization of farmers
has been poorly developed, mainly because of the previous government's
ideological attitudes, particularly towards groupings of small farmers. As a
result, many of the services typically provided by such groupings (e.g., input
supply, savings mobilization, product processing and marketing) are only now
becoming developed in the areas dominated by small farmers. Little attention
has been paid in the past to conservation of natural resources. This is a
consequence of the strategy of area expansion that has underlain agricultural
development, but it is also the result of the weaknesses described above in
research and extension, which have failed to appreciate the long-term
consequences of inappropriate farming methods and technology.
Lessons from General Bank Exierience
1.14      The Bank's concern over the environmental implication of
development has increased steadily for more than two decades. An OED study
entitled "Renewable Resource Management in Agriculture" (Report No. 7345, June
24, 1988) examined experience from the period 1965-1985 to identify lessons
for future policy and project initiatives. The report concluded that, in



-6-
general, the Bank's economic and sector work (ESW) did not provide the
strategic framework for defining the main resource management issues in any
given country and, therefore, could not define the options for dealing with
them. The report argued that the Bank should take a leading role in
clarifying issues, options and strategies that would ultimately lead to
fundamental changes in the way renewable resources are used.
1.15      The country case studies included in the report showed a wide
divergence in the nature and extent of resource management issues which affect
economic development. The report emphasized that, until the late 1960s,
issues of sustainability and equity were not raised in the discussion of the
use of natural resources, the impression being that many, if not most,
countries had large, under-exploited resources, the rapid exploitation of
which was necessary to accelerate economic development. Paraguay would
certainly have fallen into this category. Commenting on the impact of ESW,
the report defined four basic weaknesses:
(a) the policy recommendations that were made were unrealistic in
practice;
(b) there was no comprehensive overview of developments in any given
country which had an impact on the use of renewable resources;
(c) the Bank, therefore, by design or by default, appeared to be
largely unaware of the major changes affecting resource management
within that country; and
(d) little had been done to assess how the actors, and the institutions
governing their interactions, had created the policies,
bureaucracies and decisions that had undermined sustainable
development.
1.i6      The conclusion was that ESW had not provided either governments or
the Bank with a strategic, inter-sectoral framework for policy and action. As
a result, project lending had done little to promote sustainable development
or the equitable distribution of benefits. Since environmental issues vary
widely between countries, a standardized approach to analyzing issues would be
inappropriate. The relevance of ESW should be increased for countries where
resource degradation is of critical importance. This should include, inter
alis, discussions of policy options and institutional constraints, and the
strengthening of the information base in order to improve policy for natural
resource management.
1.17      There are very few examples of projects in the Bank's records which
deal with the specific components contemplated under the proposed project f,n
Paraguay.  In Kenya. the Agricultural Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit
No. 1277) complemented SAL II by, inter alias supporting government
initiatives in the areas of land policy and institutional strengthening, and
upgrading Kenya's technical capacity to provide information on land use and
natural resources. The program to improve land tenure policy was delayed and
incomplete, and it was felt in the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)



- 7 -
that the political sensitivity over the issue of land tenure was
underestimated during project formulation; lack of government commitment on
this issue was a significant issue during project implementation. The
long-term nature of institution building was emphasized, and it was noted that
a follow-up project (the Agricultural Sector Management Project) was later
approveds designed to build upon what had been achieved earlier.
1.18      The Kenya project's achievements highlighted three major lessons
for institution-building considered to be of general applicability:
(a) complementarity should be achieved with policy-based operations;
(b) ar. active role should be taken by government in all phases of the
project cycle, and the strong commitment of senior officials should
be obtained; and
(c) the intensive nature of the required Bank supervision should be
recognized, promoting operational dialogue and contributing to the
identification and preparation of related, follow-up operations.
1.19      The Agricultural Sector Loan (Loan 2675-PA) to Argentina included a
component of studies and technical assistance aimed, inter alla, at the
preparation of the technical basis for the proposed federal land tax. The
Project Completion Report (Report No. 9913, September 26, 1991) refers to the
success achieved by this component. The technical basis for the federal land
tax included the unification and homogenization of the 23 provincial
cadastres, the completion of soils mapping, detailed production cost/farm
model analysis for land valuation, and computerization of the data base. The
Bank's project files indicate three important lessons from this work:
(a) the preparation of a cadastre requires the employment of a large
number of staff over a relatively short period; the operation and
maintenance of a cadastre, by contrast, requires a much smaller
staff and, therefore, in order to avoid the trauma of reducing the
size of a cadastral unit once implementation is complete, it is
important to define tasks that can be handled by third parties and
to make provision for contracting and coordinating them;
(b) the problems of inter-institutional coordination must be carefully
handled and have significant implications for maintaining work
programs; and
(c) the multi-purpose approach to a cadastre is important, particularly
in handling inter-institutional issues.
1.20      In the design of the proposed project, therefore, close attention
has been paid to the specific lessons learned from projects in Paraguay and to
the more general lessons from wider Bank lending. The clear institutional
weakness of the Ministry of Finance (MH) and its National Cadastral Service
(SNC) has been addressed through institutional strengthening measures (e.g.,
technical assistance and training) and through the creation of a Project



-8-
Coordination and Management Unit (UTAP) with management links to the UNDP.
With respect to natural resource management and environmental issues, the
proposed project is the direct, initial result of the dialogue between the
Bank and the Government (GOP). It emphasizes the need for a radically altered
strategy, aimed at the development of sustainable agriculture, and represents
an essential step in putting the strategy into action.
Bank Lending- Strateav for the Sector
1.21      The Bank's country assistance objectives and strategy have been
defined through intensive mission contacts since the change of government in
early 1989. Bank strategy is to support Paraguay's shift from an oxtensive
model of agricultural expansion to growth through intensification with
emphasis on sustainable resource management arid environmental protection. TIhe
Government is beset by short- and medium-term problems in the rural areas
concerning the increasingly vocal and frequently militant landless peasants.
Whilst the resolution of these problems is important, the Bank's key role is
to assist the Government to think and to plan strategically for the long term,
and to assist in the implementation of key projects to achieve the objectives
of the strategy. The main elements of strategy are to support the
intensification of agriculture and the promotion of sustainable agricultural
development. The Bank should therefore support those initiatives which:
(a) improve the Government's knowledge base and policy-making capacity;
(b) promote the rational management of natural resources; (c) improve the
institutional capacity of the sector; and (d) improve the productivity and
well-being of smallholders.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.22      The Bank's role is to assist the Government, first in understanding
these issues and then in mobilizing the resources needed to deal with them.
The transition from extensive, exploitive agriculture to a more intensive and
controlled land use requires basic knowledge of land ownership, use and
capability. It will also eventually require a significant increase in
agricultural services. A more effective implementation of existing mechanisms
for land taxation will increase the fiscal contribution of the sector. The
cadastre and the Geographic Information System (GIS) proposed in this project
would be the first, crucial step towards meeting these objectives, and they
would be complemented by a further intervention within 1-2 years (the Regional
Agricultural Development Project) aimed at the consolidation of existing
colonization schemes, investments in infrastructure, environmental protection
and institutional strengthening in the Eastern Region (specifically the
Departments of Alto Paranh and Itapfia), which is the most productive and
dynamic part of the country. Bank involvement in the conception and
preparation of this project has already been a catalyst in the definition of a
new approach to the use of natural resources in Paraguay. Though still at a
very early stage, this approach is the only realistic hope of sustaining the
growth of output in the long term and of mitigating the potentially disastrous
migration of landless and itmpoverished people into the urban sector. The
project would introduce activities and systems requiring a much higher level



-9-
of technical expertise than has hitherto been deployed in the implementing
agencies. It would also support detailed policy studies to define more
clearly and help #mplement the government's agricultural policy. It is thus
an ideal candidate for the combination of technical, policy and financial
assistance typically provided by the Bank.
1x. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN AND CONCEPT
2.01      In late 1989, following discussions with the Government which took
office in February of that year, the Bank undertook a project identification
mission aimed at a renewal of agricultural lending after a hiatus of almost
six years. In the dialogue that followed, it quickly became apparent that
major changes are required in agricultural development strategy and that the
Bank's support should be carefully tailored to assist in its definition and
implementation. In particular, a major deficiency exists in terms of
"information about land" which impedes the Government's ability to plan, not
only for future agricultural growth but also for the management of natural
resources, both in sustainable agricultural production and in the preservation
of native forest.
2.02      The initial identification mission and subsequent preparation
missions in early 1990 provided support to the Technical Department (GT) of
MAG and to ONCAP, which were given the preparation responsibility by the GOP.
This support included joint missions between the Bank and the FAO Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP). The project concept was centered on the regional
agricultural development of the Departments of Alto Parana and the north of
Itapda, with several "national level" components designed to address the issue
of insufficient information about land. However, a lack of definition
concerning institutional responsibilities delayed the start of preparation.
At the GOP's request, technical assistance was provided by the Bank for
preparation of the national level components and, in early 1991, with the
submission by the GOP to the Bank of a document concerning these components,
the decision was taken to divide the project into two.
2.03      During 1990, an Environmental Technical Assistance Project (ETAP)
was identified by the GOP and the Bank, and a Japa-aese Environment Trust Fund
grant was obtained to finance the preparation of  ieveral of its components.
In order to increase the efficiency of use of both the Bank's and the GOP's
resources, certain components of the ETAP have now been included in the two
agricultural projects (the proposed Land Use Rationalization Project and the
Regional Agricultural Development Project). Several sub-components will be
the subject of initiatives under the Global Environment Facility.
2.04      These modifications have been designed to incorporate all the
components concerning information about land, as well as specific studies on



- 10 _
the use of land and natural resource management, in the proposed Land Use
Rationalization Project. A pre-appraisal mission visited Paraguay in March
1993, and the project was appraised in June/July 1991.
2.05      The Eastern Region of Paraguay covers 160,000 km2 and contains 98%
of the country's population. The high proportion of cultivable soils and
adequate, well-distributed rainfall have been the basis of a major expansion
in export-oriented crop production since the 1960s. The increase in
cultivated area at the expense of the natural forest cover has caused
deforestation at the rate of over 100,000 ha per year for the past two
decades, and this has accelerated markedly since 19891 soil degradation and
orosion are increasingly serious problems.
2.06      Clearly, this process is incompatible with the long-term
sustainable development of agriculture, and a new approach to the sector is
urgently needed. This approach requires a major investment in the technical
and institutional capacity to monitor and control land exploitation, combined
with an increase in services aimed at intensifying production and conserving
soils on land that has already been brought into production. These
investments will require an increase in fiscal revenue in which it is
important that the agricultural sector should play a full role; this can best
be provided by increasing the effectiveness of existing tax instruments,
specifically the Real Estate Tax (Impuesto Inmobiliario) and others
contemplated in the recently-approved Fiscal Reform Law. The proposed project
would significantly enhance this capacity, and would also make a start on the
investment in the technical and institutional strengthening for better land
use management.
B. OBJECTIVES
2.07      The project would:  (a) improve the Government's information base,
as a means of raising its effectiveness in: (i) land titling; (ii) the long-
range planning of natural resource management; (iii) the provision of services
to agriculture; and (iv) raising fiscal revenue from the sector; and (b)
provide a basis for strengthening the institutions responsible for land
settlement and for natural resource management and protection. The project
would be part of a phased strategy to atrengthen basic agricultural services.
2.08      The project would provide the basic tools necessary to define a
more effective role for the public sector in providing services and
infrastructural investments for agricultural development. It would also
enhance the Government's ability to regulate the exploitation of natural
resources and to limit environmental degradation. The private sector would
also benefit in the long term from a clearer definition of land capability,
regularization of land titles, and access to improved services. The
information to be acquired under the project is necessary, but not sufficient,
to promote sustainable agriculture withiin environmental constraints and to
promote an increase and diversification of production via the uptake of
improved technology. It is also a necessary component in raising the fiscal
revenue base from the agricultural sector. On the institutional side, the



project would strengthen: (a) the National Cadastral Service (SNC), which
would be responsible for the development and maintenance of the cadastre;
(b) the Sub-Secretariat for Natural Resources and the Environment (SSRNMA) in
MAG, which would be responsible for the maintenance, expansion and use of the
GIS; (c) the Directorate of the Military Geographic Service (DSGM); and (d)
through the program of studies, the broader public sector apparatus in
agriculture, including the HAG and the IBR.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
2.09      The project, to be implemented over five years, would include three
components: (a) the creation of a complete, multi-purpose rural cadastre for
the Eastern Region and a related socio-economic data base; (b) the
establishment of a Geographic Information System (GIS) as the basis, inter
alia, for an economic land-use classification system, and its associated legal
and policy studies; and (c) a number of studies aimed at the improvement of
the functioning of institutions in the agricultural sector and the definition
of strategy and policy.
Table 1: Project Components
Responsible
Component                  Institution              Objectives
(a) Rural Cadastres
- Phase I                 SNC            Compilation of existing
information on land-holding.
- Phase II                SNC/DSGM       Cadastral mapping and surveying,
and creation of cadastral records.
- Phase III               SNC            Implementation and maintenance of
the cadastre.
(b)  Geoeranhic Information
System (GIS):
- Stage I                 SSRNMA         Soil, land use and capability, and
forest cover mapping.
- Stage II                SSRNMA        Installation of computer
facilities, related studies and
analysis.
(c)  Studies:                  GT/MAG         Provision of basic data and policy
analysis concerning the role of
the public sector in promoting
agricultural development, land
titling, policy affecting land
use, and natural resource
management.



- 12 -
The Rural Cadastre
2.10      A detailed diagnostic study of the existing cadastre, the
institutions involved, the generation of information, and the flows of
information within and between institutions was undertaken in the course of
project preparation; an outline of its findings is presented in Annex 1.1.
2.11      The existing, incomplete and out-of-date cadastre functioned in the
Cadastral Directorate (DC) in the MH until its recent restructuring and
reorganization. The Office of the Cadastral Project, which remained in
existence until that reorganization, had its origin in the urban and rural
cadastral project begun in 1974 and financed by USAID. This project succeeded
in creating cadastral records for 304,000 parcels on 87,000 km2, but none of
it was processed electronically and there were serious deficiencies with
respect to the quality of the cadastral mapping that formed its base.
2.12      The cadastral system to be implemented under the proposed project
would be multi-purpose, initially with fiscal objectives but designed to be
used in a subsequent phase for legal (i.e., land titling) objectives. The SNC
has been created within the restructured MH, at the level of Sub-Secretariat,
to implement and operate the system. The cadastre would be map-based,
oriented towards economic concepts in order to derive consistent property
values for tax purposes. The parcel would be the basic identification unit of
the system. The cadastre would be based on, and up-dated by, information
generated by its own organization, but it would be inter-related with other
institutions. The cadastral component would be implemented in three phases,
which are summarized in Annex 1.2.
2.13      The area to be covered by the rural cadastre would be 170,000 kM2,
which includes the whole of the Eastern Region (160,000 ki2) and part of the
south of the Department of Presidente Hayes (10,000 km2) in the Western
Region. In a subsequent phase, and at a reduced level of detail, the
remainder of the Western Region would be incorporated into the cadastre. The
number of parcels to be studied and incorporated into the cadastral register
would be approximately 442,000 and would include (a) all rural parcels and (b)
those urban parcels which lie in municipalities not yet incorporated into the
cadastre. The cadastre would form a relational data base which would allow
analysis of the key variables and the efficient application of the existing
real estate tax (impuesto inmobiliario).
2.14      The project would also consolidate the archive which contains the
judicial aspects related to title and ownership of parcels, their physical
characteristics and their map representations. The parcel, individualized by
its geo-referenced coding, would serve as the basis for the tax-payer listing,
and information would be accessible either through parcel identification or
ownership.
2.15      First Phase:  Compilation of Existinz-Information.  Before the
commencement of field work, it would be essential to define the information
that is already available from different sources for incorporation into the
cadastre. This involves the establishment of Inter-Institutional Agreements



- 13 -
of cooperation (convenios) and Agreed Plans of Action, involving the SNC, the
Surveying and Geodetic Department (DAG) of the Ministry of Public Works
(NOPC), the Property Register (RPI) of the Supreme Court (CSJ), the IBR, the
DSGM, and the SSRNMA. The convenios and Agreed Plans of Action define the
nature of the cooperation required, the information to be transferred, its
timing, and the obligations of both parties (Annex 9). The project's
implementation would require the establishment of a Project Coordination and
Management Unit (UTAP) connected functionally .ith the SNC. The proposed
structures of the SNC and the UTAP are described in Annexes 1.4 and 1.5.
2.16      A Systems Office would be established in the Planning Department of
the SNC which would be responsible for: (a) the design, contract, monitoring
and evaluation of results in the systematization of existing information; (b)
the design, development and implementation of the system of sworn declarations
(declaraciones iuradas); (c) the design, development, and implementation of
the statistics sub-system; (d) the collection and maintenance of statistical
information; (e) the design, development and implementation of the system to
obtain the revised Taxpayer Listing (Padr6n de Contribuyentes provisorio); and
(f) the development and implementation of the final system for the cadastre.
2.17      The existing data of the DC, the RPI, and the IBR would be
inter-related in an electronic data base, and a Rural Property Index (Libro
Indice de ProRiedades Rurales - LIPR) would be created to form the
starting-point for the Sworn Declaration exercise. The procedure of using
Sworn Declarations as the basis of valuation of real estate is established in
Decree Law 51/52, which established the impuesto inmobiliario. With the data
from the individual Sworn Declarations, the project would achiever (a) an
information system which would allow the existing Taxpayer Listing (Padr6n de
Contribuventes existente) to be purged and consolidated; (b) an up-date of the
number of parcels, by District; (c) a temporary general revaluation of
properties; and (d) the definition of the key characteristics of rural
holdings.  The information generated from the Sworn Declaration exercise would
be used to generate the Provisional Parcel File (Legajo Parcelario
Provisorio - LPP). This would require the permanent availability of computing
facilities, and the development and implementation of an information system
using a data base management program.
2.18      Based on the existing Taxpayer Listing and the results of the Sworn
Declaration exercise, a new Provisional Taxpayer Listing (Padr6n de
Contribuyentes provisorio) would be created. This would serve as the basis
for a provisional revaluation that would remain in effect until the project
had generated accurate data and had the complementary soils maps and economic
information (i.e., on production potential). The Provisional Taxpayer Listing
would be transferred to the General Directorate of Tax Collection (DGR). As a
result, during the period of implementation of the cadastral component the MH
would have at its disposal a technical/legal instrument with which to begin to
apply tax policy on real estate, with particular emphasis on the rural areas.
2.19      The results of the First Phase would be: (a) to consolidate an
information system that currently lacks articulation and cohesion; (b) to make



- 14 -
operational the SNC with its new organic functions; (c) to provide the MH with
the information to allow a provisional application of an existing tax on a
more equitable and realistic basis; (d) to transfer information on the present
use of land; and (e) to complete the basic studies for the later, deotnitive
revaluation of parcels.
2.20      Second Phase:  Cadastral Surveying and Creation of Cadastral
Records. The new cadastre would require, as its starting-point for field
work, a set of map and map-related documente that would permit the
identification of all properties. Beginning from new aerial photography and
interpretation of satellite imagery, the final product would be: (a)
orthophoto maps at a scale of 1:25,000 for 140,000 km2 of the Eastern Region
and the southern part of the Department of Presidente Hayes in the Western
Region; (b) orthophoto maps at a scale of 15,000 for those areas with small
parcels and high population density, covering approximately 30,000 km2 of the
Eastern Region; and (c) mapping at a scale of 1:100,000 from satellite imagery
for the whole of Paraguay (approximately 400,000 km2). The products of (a)
and (b) would be used for the in sltu inspection of parcels and the definition
of their boundaries, and for agro-economic studies of land. The steps to be
taken in this process would be: the determination of ground reference points
and the calculation of definitive coordinates; the acquisition of new aerial
photography; aerial triangulation, compensation and block adjustment of aerial
photography; the production of orthophoto maps; and the acquisition of
satellite imagery. A number of tasks in the Second Phase would start during
the implementation of the First Phase.
2.21      Revised Datum and Geodetic Grid.  The basic geodetic grid of
Paraguay is incomplete in terms of its monumentation, and is based on a datum
(CHUA ASTRO) that is now considerably out-of-date and which has ceased to be
used by neighboring countries. The GOP has taken the decision to adopt a new
datum (WGS 84) and to establish a new geodetic grid based upon it, which will
be tied in to the Universal Geodetic Grid. In order to complete the work in
the shortest possible time, and to take advantage of the latest technology
which is both faster and more accurate in defining coordinates on the ground,
the GOP has accepted an offer of technical assistance from the Inter-American
Geodetic Survey (IAGS), part of the Defense Mapping Agency (DMA) of the U.S.
Government.
2.22      This technical assistance is expected to commence in February,
1992, and would last for about five months. The IAGS would place a number of
complete teams in Paraguay each equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS)
transceivers to operate with the NAVSAT satellite navigation system. The IAGS
would work closely with the DSGM, which has legal responsibility for the
geodetic grid in Paraguay and which will provide support for the exercise in
terms of transport and staff. The IAGS would establish the "first order"
geodetic grid on a triangular basis, each point being approximately 25 kms
apart. The subsequent phases of "densification" would create second- and
third-order grids of points, and would be undertaken by contractors in
association with the taking of aerial photography. Detailed information on
the establishment of the geodetic grid is shown in Annex 1.6.



- 15 -
2.23      Aerial Photograyhv and Maps.   The existing aerial photography
coverage of Paraguay is almost all over 25 years old and of poor quality; new
aerial photography to form the basis for map production is therefore
essential. Several technical options were analyzed during project
preparation. In the option selected, the aerial photography would be taken
using panchromatic film and, since clarity and contrast are key requirements,
a camera with forward motion compensation would be utilized. Ground control
points in each area would be pre-panelled before the flights are made, to
allow direct identification for the aerial triangulation models. In order to
achieve a balance between the need to have detailed coverage of those areas of
small plots of land and the adequacy of reduced detail in the
extensively-farmed parts of the country, aerial photography coverage at a
scale of 1:60,000 would be made of the whole project area of 170,000 km2 and
at a scale of 1:20,000 for an area of 30,000 ka2t, the latter including the
densely-settled Departments of Cordillera, Central, Paraguari, Caaguazi, Alto
Paran&, Guairg and San Pedro. Contractors selected through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures following Bank guidelines would establish
supplemental ground control for aerial triangulation, using either GPS,
inertial systems (IS), or traditional methods. Compensation and adjustment of
the aerial photographs would be by aerial triangulation, using analytical
stereo plotters for restitution and Pat M software for bundled block
adjustment. Orthophoto maps would be produced from the aerial photographs:
(a) at a scale of 1:25,000 for 140,000 km2 of the area filmed at 1:60,000
scale; and (b) at a scale of 1:5,000 for the whole area filmed at 1:20,000
scale. Satellite imagery would be acquired at a scale of 1:100,000 for the
Eastern Region and at a scale of 1:50,000 for the Western Region.
2.24      In-Field Cadastral Surveying.  As cadastral maps became available,
they would be used to support the process of cadastral surveying in order to
provide information on the land owner or occupier, the parcel boundaries, its
location and other parcel-specific information. The quality of the maps would
be checked in the field. The work would be carried out by a large number of
field teams, following detailed methodology and instructions, and closely
coordinated both with earlier activities and with other institutions (e.g.,
IBR, DGRP, DAG, MOPC). The basic cadastral file card (ficha catastral) for
each parcel of land would be revised or created to ensure that it contains all
the information necessary. The conditions and specifications for employment
of the teams would be carefully defined. Once the information had been
obtained, recorded on the maps and transferred to the cadastral file cards,
both maps and cards would be sent to the Systems Department of SNC for
incorporation into the cadastral data base. The Cadastral Department of the
SNC would be trained to supervise this work.
2.25      Acquisition of Data Processing Equipment.  Specifications for
bidding purposes would be drawn up for both hardware and software.
Procurement would take into account the presence that the bidder has in
Paraguay for service and maintenance purposes as well as for training.
2.26      DeveloDment of the Information System.  The Inter-Institutional
Agreements (convenios) and Agreed Plans of Action to be impl.emented prior to



-  16  -
the project's commencement would generate both technical and alpha-numeric
information which would be used to form a relational data base for the whole
country, including the urban areas. This would include the necessary links
with the IDB-UNDP tax administration project, which is establishing the Single
Register of Taxpayers (RUC).
2.27      The results of the Second Phase would include:  (a) complete aerial
photography and cadastral map coverage for the Eastern Region and part of the
Department of Presidente Hayes; (b) the training of the staff of the SNC; (c)
the consolidation of a listing of owners and occupiers of land in the Eastern
Region; (d) a permanent system of property revaluation; and (e) the
installation of data processing equipment and the provision of all instruments
and equipment necessary to the SNC.
2.28      Third Phase:  Implementation and Maintenance of the Cadastre.  The
tasks of the Third Phase would include institutional strengthening, and would
correspond to the administration of cadastral information and its application
to tax and agr4.cultural policy.
2.29      The cadastral information system would be implemented in its
completed form, support by peripherals representing the basic file systems.
The system would operate as a relational data base for the analysis of land
holdings, land use, soil capability, improvements and investments, and fiscal
valuation. The emission of tax invoices and maintenance of tax accounts would
be the responsibility of the DGR. The objective would be to include all the
basic cadastral information in one system, including all IBR colonists
whatever their status in terms of land tenure.
2.30      A Working Group would be formed in the SNC to provide the link with
the GIS. This Group would be responsible for producing and maintaining
up-to-date the cadastral contribution to the GIS. The Group, working in close
cooperation with the SSRNMA (where the GIS would be based), would define the
contents and structure of its system, and using the basic software of the GIS
would digitalize its graphic information, input other data on attributes,
analyze results, and be responsible for working in an inter-active manner with
the central GIS.
2.31      A separate Working Group would collect mapping and descriptive
information for the Western Region (the Chaco) in a similar way to that used
earlier for the Eastern Region. Data processing would generate maps with
parcel identification and a data base of cadastral information. The
information would be compiled in such a way as to ensure that it was capable
of being up-dated systematically. The iioplementation of the Western Region
cadastre would be planned as a component of a future project.
2.32      The definitive parcel file (legaio garcelario definitivo) would be
established as the record of basic information on each land parcel
incorporated in the cadastral records. A general revaluation would be made of
rural property in line with the legal framework in effect. The process would
begin with the information generated in the First Phase and in the development
of the GIS, including soils, land capability and land-use maps, economic



- 17 -
information, and agro-climatic zoning information, and would require the
active participation of the HAG.
2.33      The cadastre, once completed, would require systematic maintenance
to safeguard its usefulness. The detailed methodology would be defined by the
UTAP by which tlhe SNC would maintain the cadastre up-to-date once it had been
established. This would be finalized during the project's second year, and
would include detailed physical resource and cost estimates; it would be the
subject of review and agreement between the Bank and the GOP during the first
mid-term review, scheduled for September 1993 (see Annex 7).
2.34      From the middle of the project's second year, the results of the
First Phase would result in a transitory improvement in the Im2uesto
Inmobiliario taxpayers listing and property valuations. As the Second and
Third Phases come to completion, these improvements would become definitive.
The tax invoicing and accounting would be the responsibility of the DGR.
2.35      The results of the Third Phase would be the installation of a
permanent information system for the cadastre, which would be used for:
(a) taxation administration of the Sub-Secretariat for Taxation (SST) of the
MH; (b) land distribution by IBR; and (c) land use policy of SSRNMA/MAG.
2.36      The preparation and implementation of the cadastre would require a
program of in-service training for the staff of the SNC, the details of which
are shown in Annex 1.3.
2.37      The law restructuring the MH was approved by Congress in January,
1992. In this law, the SNC was created at the level of a Sub-secretariat
reporting directly to the Minister of Finance. The entry into effect of the
appropriate legal instrument (Presidential Decree and Ministerial Resolution,
respectively) by which the Regulations of the SNC and UTAP would be approved,
and the establishment of the UTAP, including the appointment of its head,
would be conditions of loan effectiveness. The contents of the instrument
were azreed upon during negotiations.
2.38      The level of staffing of the SNC and their training would require
strengthening in order to undertake the project. The existing low salaries
are out of proportion to the responsibility that certain staff would have to
assume. The implementation of the project would be based on contracting third
parties, which implies that certain SNC staff would have important tasks of
supervision and control, and the SNC would not be able to compete with private
firms unless it can increase its salaries, either by rewarding full-time work
and quality of work or by creating a "regime of exception" while the project
is being implemented. Agreement was reached during negotiations that adequate
remuneration would be paid to key staff, and the costs of the project include
the incremental costs of full-time work ("dedicaci6n exclusiva").
2.39      The UTAP would be established within the SNC to be able to sign
contracts with third parties and manage funds. The role of the UNDF in
assisting the UTAP (and other project agencies, the SSRNMA and the GT) has



- 18 -
been defined in a draft UNDP Project Document. It is intended that the UNDP
should be contracted to perform only those tasks in which is has a clear
comparative advantage, so that the functioning of the UTAP within the SNC
should result in as much "learning by doing" as possible. The contents and
scope of the draft technical assistant agreement between the GOP and the UNDP
was discussed during negotiations and its signing in final form would be a
condition of effectiveness. The role of the UTAP is described in detail in
Annex 1.5.
The Geograhic_InfoMation-System (G)
2.40      In its recent statement of agricultural policy (Annex 11), the HAG
has explicitly recognized the importance of natural resource management and
sustainable agricultural development, and has delegated the responsibility to
the SSRNNA to analyze resources and formulate a plan of "ordenamiento
territorial" to be based on agro-ecological zoning. This is recognized to be
a complex, multi-disciplinary and inter-institutional effort. The SSRNMA
would coordinate the work and take the central role. It has reached agreement
with the SNC to undertake complementary activities in the cadastre and
ordenamiento territorial.
2.41      The fundamental objective of this component is to establish a
dynamic information system/data base - the GIS - in order to formulate and
implement a strategy of ordenamiento territorial, the key objective of which
is to encourage appropriate practices of natural resource management as the
basis for sustainable agricultural development. The GIS would be directly
accessible by multiple users via computer terminal. Based on the GIS and the
results of complementary studies, a legal framework and institutional
mechanisms would be established to allow the implementation and monitoring of
the policy for ordenamiento territorial.
2.42      The SSRNMA would be responsible for the development of the GIS and
for its physical location. An outline technical description of the work to be
carried out appears in Annex 2.1. It would undertake the following tasks in
creating the GIS:
(a)  create an inventory of existing natural resource information and
socio-economic data;
(b)  undertake a reconnaissance-level study of soils and produce the
relevant soils, current land use, natural forest cover, and land
capability maps at a scale of 1:250,000;
(c)  procure and install the hardware and software of the GIS (e.g.,
computer facilities; map digitalizers; plotters; GIS software
package compatible with the relational data base software to be
used in the cadastre); and the terminals and their peripherals for
participating institutions;
(d) train the necessary personnel;



_ 19 -
(e) incorporate the results of (b) into the GIS as its first level of
basic data;
(t) define and establish priorities with respect to those zones of the
country that require progressively more detailed work on natural
resource analysis and socio-economic data collection. This wbrk
would be done at a scale of 1:25,000 in order to be compatible with
the eadastre, and would include: (i) semi-detailed soil survey;
(ii) the collection of data on geology and geomorphology, water
resources, climate, flora and fauna; and (iii) land capability and
actual land use mapping;
(g) detailed analysis of (f) and its incorporation into the GIS;
(h) detailed studies and analysis for the establishment of the legal
and institutional framework for the implementation of the
ordenamiento territorial; and
(i) monitoring and evaluation.
2.43      A Japanese PHRD Grant to Paraguay will be executed by the Bank and
used for the tasks described in para 2.42 (b) and parts of (c) and (h). A
technical description of the work to be done under the Grant is shown in Annex
2.2. The Grant Agreement has been signed by both the GOP and the Bank.
2.44      For purposes of description, the component can be divided into two
sub-components: (a) soils and land use mapping, and the collection of
ancillary data; and (b) installation of the physical facilities of the GIS,
input and storage of data, and the related body of studies and analysis.
2.45      Soil and Land CaRability Hanuing. Actual Land Use, and Ancillary
Data Collection. In the Eastern Region, a number of reconnaissance-level soil
surveys have been carried out at different time periods, using different
criteria and methodologies; the result is an incomplete "mosaic" of
incompatible coverage. In order to create the necessary soil maps and land
capability maps, which are at the core of the GIS, this existing coverage must
be made internally consistent and completed by further soil survey work to
achieve a level of reconnaissance survey for the whole area.
2.46      The objectives of this work would be:  (a) to determine land use
capacity and agricultural aptitude; (b) to use these results to support the
ordenamiento territorial; and (c) to prepare methods of land valuation, based
on its intrinsic productive capability, which would assist with the definition
of fiscal valuation and thereby link fiscal and ordenamiento territorial
policies.
2.47      The work would be carried out in two stages.  The first stage would
cover the whole of the Eastern Region, resulting in: (a) land capability,
actual land use, and agricultural aptitude maps at a scale of 1:250,000;
(b) three basic thematic maps (fertilizer/correctives, mechanization, soil
conservation) at a scale of 1:500,000;  (c) the publication of the maps and



- 20 -
their associated technical reports; and (d) the transfer of the data to the
GIS data base.
2.48      The second stage would increase the level of detail of study for
two specific sub-regions. The Departments of Alto Parang and ItapD1a have the
best soils of Paraguay, but have serious incipient problems of soil erosion
and degradation following the massive deforestation that has taken place. The
Departments of Caaguazfi. Guair& and Caazapa represent the center of the
Eastern Region and contain the main watershed between the Parana and Paraguay
basins.  The steep slopes of the low ranges of hills remain wooded, which has
so far impeded crop and livestock development; however, the area can be
expected to come under increasing pressure. The area needs urgent attention
to protect the watershed and the remaining forest and to provide information
on sustainable agricultural practices on the areas already in use. The soils
are particularly susceptible to erosion, and land-holding is dominated by
small farmers. In both sub-regions, semi-detailed soil surveys would be
undertaken, of 30,000 km2 and 26,800 km2, respectively, to produce and publish
soil, land capability, actual land use, and agricultural aptitude maps and the
three basic thematic maps, at a scale of 1:50,000.
2.49      The methodology and work program for both stages would be as
follows:
(a)  the revision and analysis of existing information and soil surveys;
(b)  the preliminary study of satellite imagery, aerial photography,
topographic and geological maps;
(c)  the production of a base map at a scale of 1:250,000;
(d)  field work of soil surveying, sampling, soil pit observation, etc.,
following United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and
Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA) methodology;
(e)  the laboratory analysis of samples;
(f)  the determination of use-capacity of soils, and the production of
maps;
(g)  the production of agricultural aptitude and thematic maps of
fertilizer/so.l1 corrective needs, mechanization and conservation;
(h)  the publication of maps and their accompanying technical reports;
and
(i)  the transfer of data to the GIS data base.
2.50      The Installation of the GIS, and Related Studies and Analysis. The
GIS is an instrument for assisting decision-making in the legal, economic and
administrative spheres and in the definition of policy (e.g., in ordenamiento



- 21 -
terr_torial). The development and use of information technology has permitted
the formation of digital models, which combine the advantages of both maps and
photographs; in addition, they are not limited to one scale, format or
projection, and can be over-laid with other information. The diverse and
complex digital information is organized in a relational data base. The GIS
thus allows multiple users with different interests and objectives to have
direct access to the data base via terminal. A key feature of the GIS is the
need for continuous centralized up-dating, making it a highly dynamic system.
2.51      The implementation of the GIS would involve:  (a) the provision of
adequate accommodation, both in terms of the proper environment for the
computer and of adequate space for the operating technicians, peripheral
equipment and map storage; (b) the procurement of the computer and
ancillaries, and the provision of on-line terminals and ancillaries to
end-users; and (c) the collection, storage, input, management/manipulation,
analysis, transformation and presentation of data.
2.52      The GIS would use the same geo-referenced map base as that adopted
by the SNC for the cadastre and the DSGM for future topographic mapping. The
geo-referenced, geometric base map is the first order level of information of
the GIS; additional levels or "layers" of information represent different
thematic units thaz can be manipulated by the GIS technicians or by those in
other institutions directly concerned with their specific context (e.g.,
demographic or public health specialists).
Studies
2.53      The project would undertake a series of studies and policy
analyses, aimed at the rationalization of land use and the strengthening of
4nrtitutions involved with natural resource management. These would be:
(a) an analysis of the structure, objectives and capacity of the main
public sector institutions in the agricultural sector, including
the NAG and its dependencies, and the formulation of
recommendations for change;
(b) a detailed analysis of the existing system of land titling, and
recommendations for improvement based on the new cadastre;
(c) an analysis of government policies affecting land use practices
especially settlement, roads, credit, and protection of indigenous
communities, and recommendations for change;
(d) a detailed analysis of the legal framework and drafting of
environmental legislation and regulations, where required,
including the environmental and health codes, aimed at improving
the role of both the private and the public sectors in promoting
rational land use and ordenamiento territorial; and
(e) a study of the role of indigenous people in natural resource
management.



22 -
2e54      The studies would be undertaken by consultants.  Those described in
para. 2.53 (a), (c), (d) and (e) would be coordinated by the GT/MAG, and that
described in para. 2.53 (b) would be coordinated by the SNC/UTAP. The scope
of woak, work programs and terms of reference were agreed during negotiations.
The Bank would also review with the Government the recommendations of these
studies and their implementation (para 2.59). More detailed information on
the studies is shown in Annex 10.
D. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Manamement
2.55      The project would be implemented in three separate but related
components. The creation of the cadastre would be the responsibility of the
SNC supported by the UTAP; the establishment of the GIS would be the
responsibility of the SSRNMA, and the GT/MAG and the SNC/UTAP would be
responsible for the component of studies. In the case of all three
components, the UTAP would coordinate the project's communications with the
Bank (e.g., on disbursements, submission of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs),
accounting and audit), and the UTAP would be supported by the local office of
the UNDP.
2.56      The elevation of the cadastral function within the structure of the
NH from a P r_cqcitn to a Servicio Nacional is a recognition of the
multi-purpose nature of the modern cadastre that the GOP wishes to establish,
with inter-institutional links and responsibilities going beyond the narrow
fiscal objectives. With consultant support provided by the Bank, a detailed
description of the SNC's functions and organization has been produced; this is
summarized in Annex 1.4.
2.57      The GOP would sign a technical cooperation agreement with the local
office of UNDP which would administer and manage the technical assistance
activities, recruiting consultants both locally and internationally, following
Bank guidelines and procedures, in support of all three of the project's
components.
2.58      Institutional coordination is a key issue for both the cadastral
and GIS components, especially where other institutions (i.e., besides the SNC
and the SSRNMA) are the source of basic inputs for the project. The
Inter-Institutional Agreements (convenios) and Agreed Plans of Action define
the precise nature of the cooperation required, the information to be
transferred, its timing, and the obligations of both parties.
Inter-Institutional Agreements would be signed by the SNC with the DSGM and
the DGRP. Agreed Plans of Action would be signed by the SNC with the IBR, the
SSRNHA, and the DAG. The texts of the convenios and the Agreed Plans of
Action were reviewed during appraisal and are shown in Annex 9; the final
texts were a.reed-upon at neRotiations, and their signing and entry into
effect would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 23 -
Monitorinz. SuHervision and Evaluation
2.59      Chronograms of the main activities of the cadastral component and
the GIS component were finalized during appraisal and are shown in Annexes 1.2
and 2.1. Based on them, agreement was reached during negotiations on the
schedules of monitorable actions shown in Annex 6. The Supervision Plan
(Annex 7) includes two mid-term reviews, scheduled for years 2 and 4 of the
project, which would cover a detailed analysis of progress-to-date and the
specification of any necessary changes. The first review would include the
recommendations of the studies and the second review the progress of their
implementation.
2.60      The UTAP would employ two consultant specialists in (a) mapping and
surveying and (b) computer systems, on long-term contracts involving two
one-month visits each per year. They would be responsible for the evaluation
of progress to date. Their detailed recommendations at each stage would form
the basis for the Bank's supervision missions and formal reviews. Their terms
of reference were agreed upon during negotiations.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
2.61      The UTAP in the SNC would have overall responsibility for
coordination and management of the project. The SSRNMA and the GT/MAG would
maintain separate project accounts designed to fit the UTAP's accounting
system. The UTAP would consolidate project accounts and prepare SOEs for
submission to the Bank. Supporting documents would be maintained by the UTAP,
SSRNMA and GT/MAG, and would be made available to Bank supervision and other
missions and to independent auditors.
2.62      The proposed administrative structure of the UTAP is shown in
Annex 1.5. In order that the accounting and other record-keeping systems of
the SNC and the UTAP can simultaneously meet the requirements of the public
administration laws of Paraguay and of the Bank, the MH has contracted the
design of the accounting/administrative systems of the SNC and the UTAP to a
local accounting consultancy firm.   Completion of the design and
implementation of the system would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.63      Project accounts, including the Special Account, and SOEs would be
audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, with
terms of reference approved by the Bank. During negotiations, the audit terms
of reference were discussed and agreed, and it was agreed that the GOP would
hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, to be financed from the
proceeds of the loan. Tlhs independent auditors would give an opinion on
compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures, using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of these
audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
closing of each fiscal year.
2.64      It was agreed at negotiations that the SNC and SSRNMA would present
to the Bank, no later than the end of October of each year their draft Annual
Operating Plans for the following calendar year. These drafts would be



_ 24 -
subJoct to the Bank's review and approval. It was also agreed at negotiations
that, at the end of each year, the SNC and SSRNMA would produce a Progress
Report and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report for
submission to the Bank; these should be given to the Bank no later than
January 31 and July 31, respectively. The Progress Reports would provide the
basic information and data for supervision missions and interim reviews.
E. COSTS AND FINANCING
2.65      The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$41.1
million, excluding duties and taxes. Direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs would be about US$31.9 million, or 78% of total project cost. Baseli%.
costs have been estimated at US$37.2 million, using March 1991 prices.
Physical contingencies of US$2.4 million have been included, representing 6.5%
of the total baseline cost. Price contingencies have been estimated at US$1.5
million, representing 4.0% of total baseline cost. Detailed cost estimates
and the phasing of project expenditures are shown in Annex 3.
2.66      A Bank loan of US$29.0 million would finance 71% of total project
costs. Eligible expenditures for project preparation from July 1, 1991 to the
date of loan signing would be considered for retroactive financing, up to a
maximum of US$1.0 million.
Procurement
2.67      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
procurement of goods and services financed under the project would be
undertaken in accordance with Bank guidelines and using standard bidding
documents based on the Bank's sample documents. The procurement policies and
procedures of the Government were the subject of a procurement review carried
out in January 1992. Certain legal provisions concerning ICB for public
sector procurement are in conflict with the Bank's guidelines.  However, since
the signed Loan Agreement requires Congressional approval which, once
received, gives it legal status in Paraguay, the Bank's guidelines would
prevail. This was confirmed by the Comptroller General. The review also
found that procurement procedures are cumbersome and recommended that UNDP
provide procurement service support to the project to reduce delays. Detailed
comments on this procurement review have been communicated to the Government
and will be closely monitored during supervision.
2.68      Procurement of works would be through ICB requiring
pre-qualification of bidders. Because of the large area to be covered by
aerial photography, the need to carry out the work within a relatively short
"weather window", and the importance of making sure that orthophoto maps are
made available as soon as possible, both aerial photography and map production
would be divided into a number of geographical "blocks". After
pre-qualification, potential bidders would be able to bid for one or more
bloCks, according to their capabilities. This is expected to cost
US$16.6 million (about 40.4% of total project costs). Procurement of goods
including computer hardware/software for the SNC and other agencies valued at



- 25 -
US$200,000 equivalent and above would be carried out through international
competitive bidding (ICB). This is expected to cost US$0.5 million (about
1.2% of total project costs). Contracts for other goods valued at less than
US$200,000 but more than US$25,000 equivalent would be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. This is expected
to cost US$0.7 million (about 1.7% of total project costs). Purchase of goods
valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract would be made on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
(local shopping). Procurement of consultants' services, project audit
services and other services estimated to cost a total of US$11.2 million
equivalent (about 27.3% of total project costs) would be carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. The
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 5.
Table 2s Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project                         Procurement Method
Element                         ICB    LCB   Other        NBF I      Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Aerial Photography       16.6    -       -            -          16.6
and Orthophoto maps      (16.6)                                  (16.6)!'
2. Goods                         0.5    0.7    0.9k'         -           2.1
(0.5)  (0.7)  (0.5)         -          (1.7)
3. Service Contracts:
3.1 Cadastral Survey          -       -      8.4          -           8.4
(8.4)                   (8.4)
3.2 Geodetics                 -       -      -            3.7         3.7
4. Consulting Services           -       -      2.83         -           2.8
(2.3)                   (2.3)
5. Other (Operational
Expenses)             -      -       -           7.5         7.5
Total                           17.1    0.7   12.1          11.2        41.1
(17.1)  (0.7) (11.2)         -         (29.0)
1/ NBF: non-Bank financed.
2/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed from the Bank
loan.
3/ Includes Japanese grant of US$0.9 million.
2.69        All procedures, documents, bid evaluation and contract awards for
ICB procurement of goods and works and for procurement of consulting services
costing US$30,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. For consulting services of less than US$30,000, contracts would be



- 26 -
signed based on a model contract previously agreed with the Bank. The audit
terms of reference would ask the auditors to certify that procurement has been
done using the bidding documents agreed with the Bank, and that the
procurement documents presented to the Bank for prior review are
representative. However, the Bank would review LCB and local shopping
procurement procedures on an ex-post basis by sampling.
Disbursements and the Special Account
2.70      Loan proceeds would be disbursed over six Bank fiscal years, or
five calendar years. The project is expected to have a shorter implementation
profile than tha, normally applied to the Bank's agricultural projects in
Paraguay, which have been primarily agricultural credit and integrated rural
development. The reason is that the proposed project would have large,
up-front technical assistance and other expenditures in the cadastral
component.
2.71      A Special Account for Bank disbursements would be established in
the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million; this would be
adequate to cover the average four-month flow of disbursements expected during
the project, not including payments to be made directly from the loan account.
It is anticipated that large payments for the contracts awarded under ICB for
aerial photography and map production would be made directly by the Bank.
Bank disbursements to replenish the Special Account would be made on the basis
of SOEs against contracts which would not require the Bank's prior review.
All other expenditures would be fully documented. The relevant documentation
in support of SOEs would be retained by the UTAP, SSRNMA and GT/MAG, and would
be made available to the appropriate auditors and Bank review missions. The
estimated schedule of Bank loan disbursements is shown in Annex 5. The
closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1997.
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
2.72      The project would provide the basic data and information necessary
to define and implement a more effective role for the public sector in
providing services and infrastructural investments for agricultural
development. It would enhance the Government's ability to regulate the
exploitation of natural resources and to limit environmental degradation. The
private sector would also benefit in the long run from a clearer definition of
agricultural land capability, the eventual regularization of land titles and
consequent improvement of property rights, and improved access to support
services. The information to be acquired under the project is necessary, but
not sufficient, to promote sustainable agriculture within environmental
constraints and an increase and diversification of production via the uptake
of improved technology. The project would be part of a phased strategy to
strengthen basic agricultural services. The project would also be a necessary
component in raising the revenue base from the sector. On the institutional
side, the project would strengthen: (a) the SNC, which would be responsible
for the development and maintenance of the cadastre; (b) the SSRNHA, which
would be a responsible for the maintenance, expansion and use of the GIS; and
(c) through the program of studies, the broader public sector apparatus in
agriculture, including the HAG and the IBR.



- 27 -
2.73      The project would lead to a significant improvement in tax
collection. There are four major groups of taxes in Paraguay: (a) taxes on
goods and services, which collected 4.76% of GDP in 1989; (b) income taxes
(1.4%); (c) capital taxes (0.25%), of which the imDuesto inmobiliario
collected 0.22%; and (d) other, mainly trade, taxes (2.42%). The
participation of the impuesto inmobiliario in total tax revenues is low
because of the under-registration of parcels, the under-valuation of parcels,
high levels of tax evasion, and the over-concentration of tax administration
and collection in Asunci6n. In 1989, for example, only 138,000 of the 381,000
registered parcels paid tax and the average payment was less than US$12. The
official valuations of land, which form the basis of the impuesto
inmobiliario, are between 2-5% of market values.  An immediate, full
revaluation of land would clearly not be politically acceptable, and a staged
increase over, say, five years would be necessary to equate fiscal and market
values.  Doubling the number of tax-payers, reducing evasion to 25%, and
equating fiscal and market valuations would yield in excess of US$40 million
per year in tax payments, compared to the US$9.0 million collected in 1989.
In addition, the recently approved Tax Reform Law provides for a presumptive
income tax based on the fiscal value of land, for which the cadastre will be a
key requirement.
2.74      Benefits from the project would come:  (a) directly, from an
improvement in tax collection, which represents a transfer payment from the
owners and users of land to the government; and (b) indirectly, via the
changes in the efficiency of use of productive factors, and particularly the
use of land, which would result from the change in strategy for which the
cadastre and GIS are key inputs.
Risks
2.75      The experience with the 1974 USAID-supported cadastral project,
which was unable to meet all its goals, demonstrates the importance of
political support for the cadastre as an instrument of tax and other policy.
The work done at that time on almost 92,000 kM2 remained as hand-written index
cards and cadastral maps, without the incorporation of new cadastral
nomenclature or computerization. This information is useful, and would be
"recuperated" in the first phase of the project, but it has become somewhat
out-dated by the development of agriculture in the Eastern Region.
2.76      To avoid this or a similar fate, the project would achieve specific
preliminary results before the full development of the cadastre. The
transitory approach to be used employing the "declaraci6n jurada" (para. 2.17)
and the gradual adjustment of fiscal to market land values have been designed
to avoid unacceptable pressures on the project. However, large land-owners
would see their interests threatened as the real size of holdings became
revealed and their tax bills increased as the result of revaluation and the
progressivity of tax rates established in law. The reaction of such vested
interests can only be speculated at, but it is important to stress that, both
with respect to the cadastre and the real estate tax, the project would be
building on already-existing systems and legal provisions.
2.77      The highest authorities of government have expressed their
commitment to resolving the problems presented by the lack of a multi-purpose
cadastre, which would allow for the clearing up of problems in land titling
and increasing tax revenues.



- 28 -
2.78      The project would generate a two-way flow with certain institutions
as the result of the Inter-Institutional Agreements and Agreed Plans of Action
to be established in the First Phase of the cadastral component of the
project. For example, the RPI would benefit in its '"folio real" project by
receiving property data from the project; IBR would obtain information on
remaining state-owned land (tierras fiscales); the DSGN would receive
highly-specialized staff training and would be the custodian of all the new
aerial photography generated under the project; DAG would improve its records
and would have permanent access to the cadastre; MAG would improve its data
base on land ownership and use. However, it must be recognized that
institutional weaknesses per se will not be resolved by the mere existence of
cooperation agreements.
Environmental ImDact
2.79      The project would have important medium- and long-term
environmental benefits. The key environmental issues, as described above in
paras. 1.07-1.10, concern the appropriate use and management of natural
resources and the sustainability of agricultural production systems. The
improvement of the Government's knowledge base about land, its ownership and
its present use is a necessary condition for the definition and implementation
of strategy and policy in natural resource management. This project would
represent an essential first step in this direction.
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a) the contents of the draft Decree and Resolution regulating the SNC
and the UTAP, respectively (para. 2.37);
(b) the mechanisms of staff payment to ensure full-time working in SNC
(para. 2.38);
(c)  the contents and scope of the draft technical assistance agreement
to be signed between the GOP and the UNDP (2.39);
(d) the scope of work, work programs and terms of reference for the
studies (para. 2.54);
(e) the texts of the convenios and the Agreed Plans of Action to be
signed by the SNC and cooperating institutions (para. 2.58);
(f) the schedules of monitorable actions, for the cadastre and GIS
components and two mid-term reviews of policy study recommendations
and implementation (para. 2.59);
(g) the terms of reference for the supervising consultants (para.
2.60);
(h) the hiring of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
draft audit terms of reference (para. 2.63);



- 29 -
(i) the presentation of Annual Operating Plans, Progress Reports and
Interim Progress Reports (para. 2.64); and
(j) procurement following Bank guidelines (para. 2.67).
3.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be:
(a) the entry into effect of the legal instruments regulating the SNC
and the UTAP (para. 2.37);
(b) the establishment of the UTAP and the appointment of its Head
(para. 2.37);
(c) signature of the agreement between the GOP and the UNDP
(para. 2.39);
(d) signature and entry into effect of the convenios and Agreed Plans
of Action by the SNC and cooperating institutions (para. 2.58);
and
(e) completion of the design and the implementation of the accounting
system and administrative procedures of the SNC and UTAP
(para. 2.62).
Roconmendation
3.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$29.0 million equivalent,
repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace, with amortization on
an annuity basis, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
February 19, 1992



-  30  -                       ANNEX 1.1
PARAGUAY
LA'!D USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral Component
Diagnostic Study of the ExistinnCadastre and Related Institutions
Introduction
1.        In order to describe the present status of the cadastre in
Paraguay, a diagnostic study was undertaken at the beginning of the
preparation exercise to examine the institutions involved at that time and the
data flows which are managed.
Institutions
2.        Real Estate Tax Directorate, Ministry of Finance (M.  Within the
existing structure of this Directorate, the following are the main cadastral
activities performed by different units:
(a) Cadastral Department. This department has the responsibility for
incorporating all urban and rural properties into the Cadastral
Register. This is done with the support of a group of inspectors
in charge of control and verification of the information recorded
and the assessment of claims presented by owners. A group of
surveyors verifies the accuracy of the information provided and
resolves conflicts or disputes that may arise between parties.
(b) Valuation Department. The department is in charge of assessing and
keeping updated the values of each property registered.
(c) Office of the Cadastral Project. This unit was created for the
coordination of the USAID-1974 project for the development of an
urban and rural cadastre for the Eastern Region. It has been the
unit in charge of preparing cadastral maps and photomaps based on
the interpretation of aerial photography, as well as the
identification of each property with the appropriate cadastral
codes within the maps prepared by the Military Geographic Service.
A total of 681 maps (out of an estimated requirement of about 1600)
have been prepared under this project. In addition, this unit has
been in charge of keeping detailed information concerning the
location and physical characteristics of each property, significant
improvements or investments that affect its assessed value, and its
legal situation or tenure.
(d) Data Processing Division. This division is responsible for all
processing of information within the Directorate, either for
technical, cadastral or tax collection purposes.



-  31  -                       ANNEX 1.1
3.        Related Institutions.
(a)  Survey and Geodetic-Department. Ministrv of Public Works.  This
department derived from the National Engineering Department created
by law in 1888. Its main responsibilities have been to carry out,
control and register survey studies requested by different public
institutions.
(b) Directorate of the Military Geogra2hic Service. This agency was
created by Law 7340 of June 14, 1941 in order to perform all the
geodetic, topographic and aerophotogrametric studies needed for the
production of geographic and topographic maps of Paraguay.
(c) Real Estate Register. General Directorate of Public Records. Corte
Suprema de Justicia (CSJ). According to Law 879/81, it is
responsible for keeping registered the titles of all real estate
properties. Payment of all real estate taxes and duties is a
necessary condition for registering a title; nevertheless, there
does not appear to be a linkage with the national cadastre
maintained at MH.
(d) Agrarian Register, Rural Welfare Institute (IBR). Law 854/63
established this register within IBR to maintain an inventory of
all titles issued by this institution inside the public colonies.
However, in order to be fully valid and legal, these titles would
have to be registered in the Real State Tax Directorate (MH) and in
the Real State Register (MJT).
Diamnosia of the Available Cadastral Information
4.        There are too many public institutions with similar
responsibilities in terms of keeping cadastral information in Paraguay, with
very little coordination between them and an extremely low overall efficiency
of performance. The problems and limitations which each one of them is facing
are quite simiiar:
(a) they are using old, manual techniques and often obsolete
methodologies with very low efficiency, which also makes
standardization and systematization of information very difficult;
(b) for the same reason, results are inaccurate, almost impossible to
verify, and difficult to maintain;
(c) lack of funds limits the renovation of equipment in general and,
consequently, the technology to be used;
(d) staff is also insufficient, with low salaries and lack of
motivation, and a total absence of training programs; and



-  32  -                       ANNEX 1.1
(e) each institution is trying to maintain its activities, responding
to very limited institutional objectives, with extremely low
coverage and in great isolation from the rest.
5.        Howeverp the information maintained by each of these institutions
is important to the success of any attempt to improve the cadastre; it will
have to be systematized and consolidated in order to be used efficiently. A
key aspect of the project would be the achievement of cooperation by means of
inter-institutional agreements, designed to: (a) make standards compatible;
(b) systematize information; (c) avoid the duplication of efforts and promote
coordination; (d) use available information with agreed joint objectives in
mind; and (e) rationalize procedures to increase productivity, accuracy and
secure maintenance of information.



_  33  _                       ANNEX 1.2
PA1RAGUAY
LAND USE RATIQNALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral ComDonent: Technical Outline
1.   Definitions
(a) Cadastral Units
(b) Cadastral Documents
2.   Main Proiect Activities
2.1 First Phase - Compilation of Existing Information and the
Provisional Listing
(a) Inter-institutional Agreements and Agreed Plans of Action
(b) Establishment of the Project Coordination and Management Unit
(UTAP)
(c) Data Processing and Information Systems
(d) Compilation and Cross-referencing of Existing Information
(e) Sworn Declaration Exercise
(f) Compilation of the Provisional Parcel File
(g) Provisional Taxpayers Listing and Revaluation of Parcels
2.2 Second Phase - Cadastral Maps, Surveying and Records
(a) Geodetic Grid and Datum
(b) Aerial Photography and Cadastral Mapping
(c) Cadastral Surveying and Definition of Boundaries,
Collection of Basic Cadastral Data
(d) Procurement of Data Processing Equipment
(e) Development of the Information System
(f) Up-grade of Building
(g) Staff Training
(h) Transfer of Information from Survey Documents to Data Base
(i) Procurement of Cadastral Equipment
(j) Improvement of the Functional Structure of the National Cadastral
Service
2.3 Third Phase - Implementation of the Cadastral System and its Maintenance
(a) Cadastral Office for the Western Region
(b) SNC Technical Group for liaison with Geographic Information System
(c) Implementation of the Information System
(d) Definitive Parcel File
(e) Definitive Property Revaluation
(f) Maintenance of the Cadaster
(g) Improved Collection of the Real Estate Tax



- 34 -
ANNEX 1.2
Figure 1
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral Cotm_nent: Flow Chart of First Phase Activities
INTER-REATIONSHIP
OF EXISTING PROPERTY
OWNERSHIP DATA
CADASTRAL DIRECTORATE
RURAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PROPERTY REGISTER
I
iCREATION OF THE8 RURAL
!PROPERTY IUDL'X
(LIBRO INDICE DE
P ROPIFDADES RURALES)
SWORN DECLARATION EXERCISE            ANALYSIS OF THE EXISTING
TAXPAYERS LISTING
(DECLARACIONES JURADAS)             (PADRON DE CONTRIBUJYENTES1
J~-                            1
CREATION OF THE PROVISIONAL          REVISED TAXPAYERS LISTING
P AMCEL FILE - (LFGAJO            (PADRON DE CONTRI,IY,ENTES
PARCELARIO PXOVISORIO)                   PROVISORIO)



PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CADASTRAL COMPONENT: IMPLEHENTATION MATRIX
ACTIVITIES                               ESMPONSIBILITT                           PURPOSE AND OBJECTmS
1. FIRST PHASE: Compilation of existing
data, and production of provisional listing.
1.1   Inter-institutional coordination                                              To share information, avoid duplication of effort,
between the SNC and:                                                         and optimize resource use.  A permanent link would
(a)   DAG                                                                    be created- with the cadastre; -the form of
(b)   RPI                                                                    cooperation will differ (e.g., convenio (Inter-
(c)   IBR                                                                    Institutional Agreement) and Agreed Plan of Action).
(d)   DSGM
(e)   SSRNMAIMAG
1.2   Project Coordination and Management        SNC & UTA?                         Linked to the Director of SNC, overcomes rigidity of
Unit                                                                         MH operating procedures.
1.3   Systems Office                             SaC, Planning and                  Design of systems for 1.4 and 1.5, sub-system of             n
Organization Department           statistical information.
1.4   Analysis of Available Data                 SNC, Information Systems           To make different magnetic tape data sources
Department                        compatible, and to create the Rural Property Index
as the point of departure for 1.5.
1.5   Sworn Declaration Exercise                 SNC, Cadastral and Systems         To create an information system to clean up present
Departments                       impuesto inmobiliario listing, up-date parcel
numbers per district, achieve a temporary general
revaluation, provide input for 1.6.
1.6   Provisional Parcel File                    SNC, Cadastral and Systems        Data base management system, Declaraciones Juradas
Departments                       Zonales, training of Regional Office staff and
loading of information in Regional Offices, Padr6n
Provisorio Zonal, feed-back to 1.1 (a) - (e).
1.7   Provisional Taxpayer Listing and           SNC, Cadastral, Valuations        To create a transitory revaluation of property, the
Revaluation                                and Systems Departments           listing of which is to be sent to the DGR.



ACTIVITIES                            RESPONSIBILITY                            PURPOSE AID OBJECTIVES
2. SECOND PEHASE: Creation of cadastral maps,
cadastral survey and records
2.1   Geodetic Crid                              IAGS and DSGM                     To establish a new datum and geodetic grid for
Paraguay.
2.2   Cadastral Mapping, including aerial        SNC, Cadastral and Technical      To create the basic maps as the starting-point for
photography, photomosaics and             Departments                       field work.
orthohophoto maps, satellite imagery      Specialized Contractors
2.3   In-field Cadastral Surveying               SNC, Cadastral and Technical      To generate the basic data for the cadastre with
Departments                       information on ownerloccupier, boundaries, specific
location, and other conditions, based on the in-
field verification of information and its
incorporation into the cadastral maps. All data
will be recorded, on a parcel basis, on the
individual cadastral record cards.
2.4   Procurement of Data Processing             SNC, Systems Department           To develop the information processing system on
Equipment                                                                   which the multi-purpose cadastre will be based.
2.5   Development of Information System          SNC
2.6   Up-grade of Building                       SNC
2.7   Training                                   SNC
2.8   Transfer of Information                    SNC
2.9   Testing and Adjustment of System           SNC
2.10  Cadastral Equipment                        SNC
2.11  Improvement to the Functional              SNC
Structure of the SNC



ACTIVITIES                              RESPONSIBILITY                             PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
3. THIRD PHASE: the administration of
cadastral information.
3.1   Western Region Cadastral Office             SNC
3.2   Technical Group for GIS                     SNC Working Group                  To extend cadastral improvement to the Chaco
To maintaia efficient contact with the CIS in SSRNMA
3.3   Definitive implementation of Cadastral    SNC
Information System
3.4   Definitive Parcel File                      SNC
3.5   Definitive Revaluation                      SNC
3.6   Maintenance of Cadastre                     SNC
3.7   Real Estate Tax                             DGR
Enhanced collection of the impuesto inmobiliario
-J
ABBREVIATIONS
DAG          Surveying and Geodetic Department, Ministry of Public works
DGR          General Directorate of Tax Collection
DSGM         Directorate of the Military Geographic Service
IAGS         Inter-American Geodetic Survey
IBR          Rural Welfare Institute
RPI          Property Register
SSRNMA       Sub-secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
UTAP         Project Coordination and Management Unit



PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral Component: ChronoRram of Activities
1                2                3                4                5
YEARS/QUARTERS
I  II  III  IV   I  II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  it  III  IV
ACTIVITIES
FIRST PHASE
Institutional Agreementsa '************ **s****** *   *******a                                       ******      *********tt***
Project Coordinating Unit                                            - ****t*****t**  *************** ***********t* t***********t
Systems Office                                       ***********t t************  **************  *************  *************t
Procesaing of Available Information                     ********t* **
Sworn Declarations                                            ****  *******
Provisional Parcel File                                               s*a**sn
Taxpayer Listing
SECOND PHASE
Geodetic CridV                                      ********
Cadastral Mapping                                       **********
In-field Cadastral Survey                                                                     *****  **************  *************t1
Acquisltion of Data Processing                               ***55* ****
Equipment                                                                                                                                           co
Development of Information System                                **   *****
Building Up-grade                                       *********
Training                                                 ***********' ***********      ***                         **   *******
Transfer of Information                                                                            ***  **************s  *************
Testing and Adjusting of System                                                   ***  ***************
Cadastral Equipment                                              ***  **5**
"Fine-Tuning" of the Functions and                                                **
Structure of SNC
THIRD PEASE
Establishment of Western Region Office                                                        *******  *************f *************
Establishment of the Geographic                                  **** **********t*  *************   *************  **************
Information System (GIS)
Technical Group
Implementation of Information System                                                           *****  **************  **************
Definitive Parcel Data File                                                                        555* **************  t*************
Revaluation                                                                                        **** *********si *sssssssssssss
Maintenance of Cadastral System                                                                ******** ************i **************
Property Tax                                                                      ***  ************f **************f ***********
11     Inter-Institutional Agreements and Agreed Plans of Action
21     Geodetic grid and datum to be developed by lAGS and DSGM.  Includes quality control traninig for aerial photography and
orthophoto maps.



-  39  -                       ANNEX 1.3
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral Coti,onent: Training Requirement
Introduction
1.        In the implementation of the project, the National Cadastral
Service (SNC) will be supported by the Project Coordination and Management
Unit (UTAP) which will be staffed mainly by consultants. In order that the
staff of the SNC can obtain the maximum amount of benefit from the presence of
UTAP staff in the establishment of the cadastre and its subsequent operation
and maintenance, a program of in-service training will be necessary. This
would be achieved by holding short courses attended by the relevant staff of
SNC and of the other institutions to which it will be linked via convenios and
Agreed Plans of Action.
Course Outlines
2.        The courses will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
2.1 Principles of urban and rural Property valuation
(a) basic economic theory concerning markets and prices;
(b) definitions of technical (appraised) and fiscal value;
(c) valuation methods, mathematical concepts, sources of data for
valuers;
(d) concept of the model parcel, economic profiles and
homogenization of data;
(e) intrinsic and external characteristics of urban property;
(f) variables influencing the variation of unit value of urban
property;
(g) building and construction characteristics;
(h) concepts of age and useful life, replacement and present value of
construction;
(i) depreciation of construction;
(j) characteriGtics of rural property, variables influencing
valuation of property;
(k) valuation of improvements;
(1) establishment of iso-values;
(m) valuation of rights of way, use and occupancy and bare legal title.
Duration of the course: 100 hours
The course would be oriented towards staff of SNC with previous
experience in property valuation, and would be designed to increase the



-  40  -                        ANNEX 1.3
knowledge and efficiency of the staff responsible for the phases of
provisional and definitive property valuation.
2.2 Cadastral Principles
(a) introduction to basic terminology, methods and nomenclature;
(b) evolution of cadastres, and history of cadastral activity in
Paraguay and other Latin American countries;
(c) large-scale cadastral valuation;
(d) maintenance of a cadastre, and the cadastre as the basis for a
territorial system of land information;
(e) data bases, relationship of the multi-purpose cadastre with other
institutions.
Duration of the course: 30 hours
The course would be designed for higher level staff in the three
specific career streams - technical, specialized and administrative - and
intended to increase their basic understanding of the multi-purpose cadastre.
2.3 Survevina for Legal Purposes
(a) the survey and topographic planes, conceptual differences;
Cb) judicial, administrative and private surveys;
*c) units of land measurement;
.d) characteristics of ownership, real and personal property rights;
(e) means of acquisition of rights over property, property title and
its relationship with law;
(A) assets and their titles;
(g) considerations on the natural boundaries of real estate;
(h) concepts of alienation, appropriation, right of way and
expropriation;
(i) sub-division of land;
(j) mineral rights;
(k) property rights in condominium apartment buildings.
Duration of the course: 60 hours.
The course would be directed towards higher-level staff, and
designed to achieve an appreciation of legal aspects of real estate ownership
and their implication for the cadastre.
2.4 Statistics
(a) use of key techniques;
(b) analysis of the most relevant estimators;
(c)  application of distribution i.nctions, and their use in
computerized data base systems;
(d) case-study analysis, farm models, market prices;
(e) sampling methods.
Duration of the course s 80 hours.



-  41  -                       ANNEX 1.3
The course will be directed to staff of the Valuation and Planning
Departments of the SNC.
2.5  Interpretation of Aerial Photoaraihy
(a) multi-purpose nature of photo-interpretation;
(b) the process of interpretations detection, recognition and
identification, analysis, deduction, and classification;
(c) level of reference, applications;
(d) fundamentals of observation, useful coverage, stereoscope use;
(e) permanence, reliability;
(f) elements of identification: size, shape, shade, tone and color,
texture, identifying marks;
(g) technical requirements and use of equipment;
(h) stereoscopic observation;
(i) search methods;
(j) theory of stereoscopic analysis and types of stereoscopes;
(k) displacement of images
(1) stereoscopic parallax.
Duration of the course : 30 hours.
The course would be directed towards SNC staff concerned with
identification of parcel boundaries and maintenance of cadastral mapping.
2.6 Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
(a) introduction to GIS, basic concepts and theoretical aspects;
(b) organization of geographic data in computerized data bases, input-
output of data, verification and correction;
(c) remote sensing as a data source for the GIS;
(d) methods of spatial analysis; modelling, network analysis and
distribution models;
(e) choice of GIS system, developments in GIS technology and
applications.
Duration of Course: 60 hours.
The course would be directed towards SNC staff specialized in
cartography and with some experience in the use of computers.
2.7 Introduction to Automatic Data Processing
(a) computerized information systems;
(b) components of the system;
(c) personal computers;
(d) operating systems;
(e) use of software.
Duration of the course: 50 hours.



-  42  -                       ANNEX 1.3
The objective of the course would be to familiarize all of the
technical staff of the SNC with the information technology to be used in the
project.
2.8  Structured ProRraMing
(a) techniques of structured programming;
(b) techniques of flow-charting;
(c) introduction to systems analysis;
(d) practical case work.
Duration of the course: 40 hours.
The course would be directed towards staff of the Data Processing
Department of the SNC, in order to train them for later instruction in systems
analysis and data base management (training courses 2.9 and 2.10)
2.9  Techniques of Systems Analysis
(a) organization;
(b) survey, interview, sequence of events, bar charts;
(c) definition of objectives;
(d) design of systems and of forms;
(e) organization of files;
(f) documentation and back-up of information;
(g) training of systems users;
(h) levels of confidence of information;
(i) implementation of the system.
Duration of the course: 80 hours.
2.10 Definition of Interactive Systems and the Management of Relational Data
Bases
(a) definition of components and information responsibilities;
(b) determination of flows and timing;
(c) detailed system design;
(d) calculation of system resources;
(e) planning of tasks;
(f) design of data bases;
(g) training, documentation and implementation.
Duration of the course: 60 hours.
2.11 Training by ComDuter Hardware and Software Suppliers
(a) programming languages;
(b) generations and maintenance of files;
(c) operating systems;
(d) communication networks;
(e) system maintenance;
(f) data base management system;



-  43  -                         ANNEX 1.3
(g) management and use of software packages;
(h) training in software packages;
(i) operation of the system;
(j) word processing.
.



-  44  -                       ANNEX 1.4
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
National Cadastral Service of the Ministry of Finance
Introduction
1.        The cadastral system in Paraguay was formally created by Decree-Law
No. 16670 approved on January 22, 1943 as the basis for a future property tax
system. However, this Decree was revoked in 1947 and the establishment of a
cadastre did not start until Decree-Law No. 51/52 created the Property Tax
Directorate (Direcoci6n de Impuesto Inmobiliario) in the Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda-MH) as the agency in charge of maintaining the
national cadastre and of collecting property taxes. After almost three
decades, the present administration felt that was necessary to separate the
technical responsibilities of keeping the cadastre from the actual collection
of taxes. On March 15, 1990, Decree-Law No. 15/90 introduced modifications in
the structure of the MH and created the Cadastral Directorate (Direcci6n de
Catastro-DC) as the new technical unit responsible for preparing, maintaining
and improving the national cadastre, as well as for the assessment of land
values to be used for tax purposes. This Decree-Law was approved with
modifications by Congress in January 1992 (Ley No. 109/91). The law includes
the creation of the National Cadastral Service (Servicio Nacional de Catastro-
SNC) as the new agency in charge of the national cadastre, linked directly to
the Minister and with the rank of an under-secretariat. The structure,
functions and responsibilities of the SNC are presented in the following
sections of this Annex.
National Cadastral Service (SNC)
2.        The SNC would be part of the permanent structure of NH, directly
under the Minister of Finance as shown in Chart 1. Its main functions and
responsibilities would be:
(a) to identify urban and rural properties with their boundaries,
improvements and characteristics, as well as to keep updated
information about their forms of tenure and legal owners;
(b) to assess all properties and to establish their values for tax and
legal purposes;
(c) to resolve all demands and claims on limits, ownership rights and
property values;
(d) to carry out studies aimed at the identification and development of
methodologies to improve the administration of the cadastral system
as well as other complementary systems;



-  45  -                        ANNEX 1.4
(e) to propose adjustments to the legislation and regulations
concerning the cadastral system and supervise their application;
(f) to provide necessary information to all public and private
institutions and individuals; and
(g) to coordinate the implementation of the Land Use Rationalization
Project through the Project Coordination and Management Unit
(Unidad Tecnica de ARovo alproyecto-UTAP) in charge of financial
management, procurement of goods and services, monitoring and
evaluation, and reporting.
3.        The SNC would perform its duties through a permanent structure
comprising eight departments and a secretarial unit, in addition to the UTAP,
as presented in Chart 2. The specific functions and responsibilities of each
of the permanent departments would be the following:
(a) Cadastral Department. The department would be in charge of the
administration of the cadastral system, processing of information
received from the field, preparing maps and checking the legal,
economic, physical and fiscal situation of the properties;
(b) Evaluations Department. This department would be responsible for
keeping the assessments of the property values updated, including
reassessments due to changes or modifications in the
characteristics of the properties, and responding to reappraisal
requests by owners;
(c) Department of Inspection and Verification. The main tasks of this
department would be to carry out inspection campaigns in the field
in order to verify the accuracy of the data collected and
processed, as well as to define the criteria used for the
assessment of the property values;
(d) Planning DeRartment. The duties of the department would include
the planning, supervision and evaluation of all administrative and
technical activities, continuously reviewing the adequacy of the
institutional structure and promoting the development of human
resources;
(e) Technical Department. The department would be in charge of
technical studies to improve the quality and the efficiency of the
work undertaken by the agency and would provide technical support
to other departments;
(f) Information Department. This department would be responsible for
all data collection, analysis and processing, according to the
needs and requirements of other units;



-  46  -                       ANNEX 1.4
(g) Administrative DeRartment. The main tasks of the department would
be to implement, coordinate and control all activities related to
the administration of financial, material and human resources,
including budgeting, accounting, procurement of goods and services,
and supply and maintenance; and
(h)  Department of Field Agencies.  This department would be in charge
of the coordination and supervision of all the activities carried
out by the field offices of SNC.



47                                                  ANNEX 1.q
Figure I
PARAGUAY
LMN USE MTIONALIZAT,ION PROJECT
0          ~~~MINISTRY oF FINANCE|
COMMITEE
ON                           CABINET
TAXATION 
GENERAL~ ~~          ADMINISTRATIVE
SECRETARIAT      _DlRECTORAtE
LEGAL
COUJNSEL                       NATIONAL
FOR THE               _        CADASTRAL
TREASURY                        SERVI CE
UNDERSECRETARIAT               UNDERSECRIE*ARIAT        -       UNDERSECRETARIAT
OF STATE FOR                      OF STATE                         OF STATE
ECON0OMY                           FOR                             FOR
AND INTEGRATION                     TAXATION                       FINANCIAL
t  -                  W ~~~~~ADMINISTRATION
.   ._                 ~~~~~GENERAL                     GENERAL
DIRECTORATE OF                    DIRECTORATE                    DIRECTORATE
. ECONOMIC                  .        OF                              OF
STUOIES                     TAX COLLECTION                    TAXATION
DIRECTORATE                      GENERAI.                        GENERAL
OF                         OIRECTORATE                     D IRECTORATE
FiISCAL                        FISCAD                          TREASURY
.            ~~~TAXATION
| DIRECTORATE                | DIRECTORATE                   r     GENERAL
||OF POLICY FOR  |                     OF                         O  IRECTORATE
HPUBLIC DEBT AND                          TAX                           OF
ITRATIOALS                 |    PLANNING                        ACCOUJNtING
! |   l        r                   |           }    ~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL 
DIRECTORATE   || DIRECTORATE                                      DIRECTORATE |
| INTEGRATIWON                     SUPPORT                        GUJIOELINES 
I    _   l     t             .  .  |           | ~~~~~~~AND PROCEDURES 
GENERAL                         DIRECTORATE |
| DIRECTORAtE                    OF RETREMNT
|  CUSTOMS                       B  ENEfITSL



48 -
ANNEX 1.4
Figure 2
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
National Cadastral Service: Orzanization Chart
D
Rt                              _NATIONAL                                                                   INTER-INSTITUTIONAL
EXECUTIVE                 CADASTRAL                                          COMHITTEE
E                                   COMMITTEE                  SERVICE
(SNC)
C
T
R                                                                                    PROJECT COORDINATION
AND
A                                                                                      MANAGEMENT UNIT         . . . .
(UTAP)
T
E
SECRETARY
D
I
p
A
R
T
N
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT
CAASTRAL        PLANNING                                              I
CADASTRAL       PROPERTY      MAINTENANCE         AND      I TECHNICAL        INFORMATION | ADHINIST*             FIELD
VALUATION    L INSRECTION   OROANITA?IONJ                      SYSTEMS          RAT104         AGENCIES



-  49  -                       ANNEX 1.5
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Proiect Coordination and Management Unit
Introduction
1.        The National Cadastral Service (Servicio Nacional de Catastro-SNC)
of the Ministry of Finance (MH) would be in charge of overall project
coordination and management, in addition to the implementation of the rural
cadastre component. Based on the inter-institutional nature of the project
and the level of complexity of the numerous activities, most of which are
interdependent, the project would include the establishment of a Project
Coordination and Management Unit (Unidad T6cnica de Apoyo al Proyecto-UTAP)
inside SNC to ensure adequate planning of tasks, timely and integrated
implementation and control of activities, and efficient management of
resources. This unit would provide technical assistance and support to all
executing agencies, not only to improve project implementation but also to
promote institutional strengthening, leading to long-term sustainability of
project activities and objectives.
2.        It should be noted that with the successful conclusion of the UTAP
in performing its institutional development functions regarding strengthening
of SNC, it will cease its activities once the project execution is completed.
Furthermore, this institutional development function would have to be
integrated into SNC's permanent activities in order to ensure a continuous
evolution of the institutional capacity and that lessons learned in the course
of project implementation are institutionalized.
UTAP Organisation and Personnel
3.        The UTAP would have a simple structure to carry out its project
coordination and management responsibilities, most of which are not part of
the normal activities of SNC. This structure is presented in Chart 3 of this
annex and would comprise three Departments: Administrative; Planning and
Technical Coordination; and Institutional Development.
4.        UTAP would be headed by a high-level local professional, acceptable
to the Bank, with adequate qualifications and experience in managing
internationally-financed projects. The Chief of UTAP would be assisted by
three long-term foreign consultants specialized in technical aspects of
implementation, administration and management of projects, and in
institutional organization and development (120 staff/months), as well as
short-term consultants to be hired as necessary (approximately
90 staff/months)* all to be financed under the project. The local staff of
the UTAP would comprise 16 people including two accountants, three accounting
assistants, six counterparts for the foreign advisors (planning and budgeting,



- 50  -                        ANNEX 1.5
monitoring and evaluation, procurement, institutional organization and
training), four secretaries, and a driver/messenger.
5.        For the purpose of inter-institutional coordination, UTAP would
relate with an Inter-Institutional Committee. This Committee would be chaired
by the Director of SNC and include representatives of all implementing
agencies. It would meet whenever necessary, but not less than once a month,
to define policy, approve plans and budget, and discuss all matters of an
inter-institutional nature. The Chief of the UTAP would be a permanent member
and would act as the Technical Secretary of the Committee, preparing agendas
for the meetings, proposing draft agreements and decisions, and implementing
necessary actions.
UTAP runctions and Responsibilities
6.        The responsibilities of each of UTAP's departments would be the
following:
(a) Administrative Degartment. This department would be responsible
for the financial management and control of project accounts, which
would include:
(i)     management of the project Special Account, presenting
withdrawal applications and statements of expenditure
(SOEs) to the Bank, and making disbursements from this
account according to the requests and SOEs submitted by
other participating agencies;
(ii)     maintainance of separate project accounts and records for
each project component, based on the information
submitted by the executing agencies, and consolidation of
them into the project accounts;
(iiI)     preparation of a budget for the project, and control and
supervision of its implementation;
(iv)     the hiring of independent private auditors acceptable to
the Bank to audit project accounts annually, including
the Special Account and SOEs, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles and terms of reference
approved by the Bank; and
(v)     all procurement activities of the project, including
works, goods and services for all participating agencies,
with technical support from other departments of UTAP.
(b) Planning and Technical Coordination Department. This department
would be in charge of the technical aspects of project
coordination, as well as providing support on specific matters to
Implementing agencies. These responsibilities would include:



- 51  -                        ANNEX 1.5
(i)     the preparation of Annual Work Programs (POAs) with all
implementing agencies, consolidation of them into the
project POA and its submission for the approval of the
Inter-Institutional Committee;
(li)     the control and supervision of implementation of the
approved 20A, providing help and assistance to executing
agencies as needed;
(iii)     the monitoring and evaluation of the project, maintaining
updated information and preparing semi-annual progress
reports as well as mid-term and final evaluation reports;
and
(iv)     the provision of technical support to other departments
within UTAP, mainly to the Administrative Department by
participating in technically complex procurement
processes (specifications, bidding documents, evaluation
of bids, contracts, supervision, etc.) and to the
Institutional Development Department for the
identification of capacity gaps and possible solutions.
(c) Institutional Development Department. This department's
responsibilities would include:
(i)     the preparation of a precise and comprehensive set of
norms to regulate the relationships between SNC and UTAP
with all implementing agencies to facilitate the
coordination and management functions, and to allow an
effective implementation;
(ii)     periodic reviews of the institutional capacity of all
executing agencies, identifying capacity gaps (from the
legal, institutional or technical skills point of view)
and proposing possible solutions to themt and
(iii)     specific activities required to address the identified
gaps (i.e., training of staff, modification of the legal
framework or the institutional organization).
Technical Assistance and Traipdng
7.        In addition to the technical assistance to support the UTAP's
coordination and management activities (para. 5 above), the project would
finance an additional 100 staff/months of short term consultants in different
areas to support project implementation by executing agencies.
8.        The project would also finance training activities, both in
Paraguay and abroad, specially designed to address identified skill gaps among



-  52  -                       ANNEX 1.5
managers and staff of all participating agencies (about 20 events for a total
of 250 days).
9.        The MH is considering the possibility of a technical cooperation
agreement with the United Nations Development Program (PNUD), under which this
multilateral organization, through its local representative office, would
administer and manage these technical assistance and training activities.
Similar arrangements with PNUD have been very successful under Bank-financed
agricultural and rural development projects in the past, where PNUD
contributed with its long experience in providing technical assistance and
thus helping improve project performance.



ANNEX 1.5
53                                         Figure 1
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Project Coordination and Nanatement Unit (UTAP): Organizational Structure
DIRECTOR                                 INTER-INSTITUTIONAL
OF SNC                                        COMMITTEE
UTAP
CHIEF              . . . . . . . . .
LSECRETARY
PLANNING                                INSTITUTIONAL
ADMINISTRATIVE                                   AND                                   ORGANI2ATION
DEPARTMENT                                  TECHNICAL                                      AND
COORDINATION                               DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT                                DEPARTMENT



-  54  -                       ANNEX 1.6
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Establishment of the Ceodetic Grid
Introduction
1.        The basic foundation for a cadastre is the geodetic grid of the
country, or the ground control points of latitude and longitude which tie the
property boundaries into known points on the surface of the earth. The
geodetic grid is important not only to provide these known points but also to
permit the re-establishment of precise property boundaries if property
boundary markers are lost or destroyed. In Paraguay, the geodetic grid has
been suspect for a long time; numerous first order, or primary, bench marks
are missing, and the datum, or point of reference to which all surveys are
connected, is also suspect and needs to be recalculated. The local existing
Paraguay datum is the CHUA ASTRO datum, which has its origins in Brazil from
where it was transferred to Paraguay. In the course of project preparation,
detailed consideration was given to defining the most efficient method to
reestablish the geodetic grid and to the decision whether to recalculate the
existing datum or establish a new one.
2.        After considerable analysis by the Direcci6n del Servicio
Geogr&fico Militar (DSGM), the body responsible in Paraguay for the geodetic
grid, assisted by the Inter-American Geodetic Survey (IAGS), the U.S. Defense
Mapping Agency (DMA), and the U.S. National Geodetic Survey (NGS) it was
decided that the adoption of the World Geodetic Spheroid WGS 84 as the datum
would be cost effective and would greatly assist in rapidly defining a new and
strengthened geodetic network necessary for the cadastral program and the
associated Geographic Information System (GIS).
Institutional Constraints
3.        The DSGM does not have sufficient technical capacity, equipment, or
trained personnel to carry out the necessary geodetic control, including
strengthening and densifying the presently inadequate primary geodetic network
and accurately determining and defining the national reference datum. The
DSGM presented a formal request for technical assistance and training to the
DMA, the parent organization of the lAGS, to carry out these tasks as well as
to perform quality control of supplemental ground control, field
classification, acceptance of aerial photography and acceptance of derived map
products, including orthophoto maps.
T*chnical Criteria for the Establishment of a New Geodetic Grid
4.        The establishment of a new geodetic grid would require ten base or
primary first-order ground control points to establ$sh the initial national
geodetic framework; an additional three hundred first-order ground control
points spaced approximately each 25 km would provide sufficient densification



-  55  -                       ANNEX 1.6
for both current and future first-order geodetic control needs. The Land Use
Rationalization Project area, covering 170,000 kI2, would have additional
supplemental ground control points for aerial triangulation to compile the
orthophoto maps; the cost of this work would be incorporated in the contracts
for aerial photography.
Working Agreements
5.        A mission composed of staff from the DMA, the LAGS, and the World
Bank visited Paraguay from September 20-15, 1991 and met with representatives
from the Direcci6n de Catastro (DC), the DSGM and other public sector agencies
to evaluate the level of technical assistance and financial resources
necessary to strengthen the geodetic grid and recalculate the local datum in
accordance with the implementation timetable of the proposed Land Use
Rationalization Project. In this regard, it was agreed that the DSGM would:
(a)   relocate monuments for the triangulation points of the
geodetic network during October 1991 in one of the five zones
in which the project area (the Eastern Region) has been
divided;
(b)   notify the DMA/IAGS by November 30, 1991 of the status of
resources allocated (i.e., vehicles, technical and support
personnel) and available for the establishment of the
geodetic grid through June 1992; and
(c)   the DSGM and the DC would have prepared by October 30, 1991 a
draft convenio detailing the responsibilities of each party
under the Land Use Rationalization Project.
6.        The DC, and its eventual successor, the Servicio Nacional de
Catastro (SNC), would be responsible for:
(a)   assignment of field staff for the re-establishment of the
geodetic grid, including some joint activities with the DSGM
for monumentation of geodetic triangulation points;
(b)   requesting the necessary counterpart funds from the Ministry
of Finance. These counterpart funds would include per diem
allowances for field parties (both military and civilian),
fuel and maintenance costs for field party vehicles, and
materials to construct the concrete geodetic monuments; and
(c)   provision of a list (jointly with the DSGM) of vehicles which
will be assigned to field parties to establish the geodetic
grid.



-  56  -                       ANNEX 1.6
7.        The DMA and the IAGS would be responsible for providing:
(a)   the technical and administrative staff for the establishment
of the geodetic grid and the training of local DSGM and SNC
staff;
(b)   the coordinates (latitude and longitude) of all geodetic
observation stations (Datum WGS84) and sufficient information
for the transformation of these coordinates into latitude and
longitude calculations;
(c)   technical support to determine the vertical control and
gravimetric observations; and
(d)   certified aerial photography inspectors (i) to ensure that
the quality of photography to be acquired under the Land Use
Rationalization Project would meet technical standards, and
(ii) to train staff from the DSGM and SNC in aerial
photography inspection techniques so that they will be
qualified to carry out these tasks in the future.
8.        The Land Use Rationalization Project through the SNC would provide
to the DSGM copies of all aerial photography, reports and flight diagrams as
described in Appendices A and B to this Annex.
9.        The DSGM would provide to the DMA/IAGS copies of all the material
described in Appendices A, B, C, and D to this Annex.
lAGS/DNM Technical Assistance Costs
10.       The technical assistance to be provided by the IAGS/DMA will cover
the establishment of a new first-order geodetic grid, the calculation of the
new WGS 84 datum for Paraguay, and the provision of training and quality
control for local counterparts in aerial photography and orthophoto map
inspection.  The costs (including salaries, per diem, travel costs, equipment
costs and overhead) are estimated as follows:
USs
A.   Establishment of First-order Geodetic Grid               1,133,000
B.   Calculation of new local datum WGS84 for
Paraguay with the assistance of the NGS                  2,080,800
C.   Quality Control and training for aerial
photography inspection                                      89,500
D.   Quality Control and training for orthophoto
map inspection                                             262,900
Total                         3,566,200



-  57  -                       ANNEX 1.6
Local Countervart Fundinz Coats
11.       The local counterpart fundlng costs (including per diem for local
field staff and for military technical and support staff, fuel and vehicle
maintenance costs, office supplies, and materials for geodetic monuments) are
estimated as follow s
US$
A.   Field ger diem for technical staff
(16 people for 154 days)                                   57,000
B.   Field per diem for military
(16 people for 154 days)                                   19,000
C.   Vehicle fuel and maintenance costs                           3,000
D.   Office materials                                             4,000
E.   Geodetic Monuments                                          23,000
F.   Leveling                                                    42,000
Contingencies 15%                                           22,200
Total counterpart funding                      170,200



- 58 -
ANNEX 1.6
Appendix A
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Establishment of the Geodetic Grid: Counterpart ResRonsibilities
The DMA/IAGS would provide:
1.   Program Director from IAGS Paraguay Project;
2.   Field Supervisor for Geodetic Survey;
3.   Field Global Positioning System (GPS) operators;
4.   GPS field survey data along with GPS and gravimetric equipment;
5.   Training in GPS operations for DSGM field staff;
6.   Reduction of all GPS data;
7.   Provision of all coordinates of geodetic stations established in the
local WGS84 datum (or other datum if required by the DSGN);
8.  Technical support to provide vertical control; and
9.   Technical support for gravimetric observations and reduction of
gravimetric data.
The DSGM would provide:
1.  Transport (including jeeps, trucks, drivers and mechanics, vehicle
maintenance and fuel, spare parts, and water tanks) estimated to include
ten jeeps, six pickup trucks, and four 2 1/2 ton trucks;
2.   Helicopters and crew for access to remote areas;
3.   Food, water and field kitchen;
4.   Sleeping accommodation in the field;
5.   Field communications for cadastral operations;
6.   Field generators to operate electrical equipment;
7.   Security;
8.   Field site preparation and organization;
9.   Medical support and emergency field evacuation (if necessary);
10. Shuttle service between Asunci6n and field sites;
11. Monumentation of geodetic control points; and
12. Office and secure storage space.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1.6
Appendix B
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALZATION PROJECT
Aerial Photogra,phy: Counterpart Responsibilities
The DMA would provide:
1.   Certified aerial photography inspectors for inspection of all aerial
photography acquired under this project; and
2.   Training in inspection of aerial photography for DSGM staff aerial
photography inspectors.
The DSGM would provide:
1.   Staff to assist the DMA certified aerial photo inspectors;
2.   Appropriate work space to carry out aerial photo inspection and
training; and
3.   Staff to assist in the placement of panels prior to aerial photography
flights to identify ground control point locations on the aerial
photography.
The Government of Paraguay through the Land Use Rationalization Proiect would
PrOvide:
1.   Copies of all acceptable aerial photography, associated information and
flight line diagrams; and
2.   Construct and equip a photographic laboratory to process film and
prints.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1.6
Appendix C
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Acceptance of Orthophoto Maps: Counterpart Resgonsibilities
The DMA would provide:
1.   Certified map inspectors to inspect the orthophoto maps; and
2.   Training in orthophoto map inspection techniques for DSGM staff.
The DSGM would provide:
1.   Staff to assist the DMA map inspectors; and
2.   Appropriate work space to carry out the inspection and training of DSGM
staff map inspectors.
The Government of Paraguay through the Land Use Rationalization Proiect would
provide:
1.   Copies of all orthophoto maps produced and the associated digital
documentation data files; and
2.   Computer work stations to process the digital data.



-  61  -                       ANNEX 2.1
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Geographic Information System (GIS)
and Bases for AMroecoloRical Zoning: Technical Outline
A detailed description of the work to be carried out is shown in
the document "Proyecto Catastral Rural, Bases para el Ordenamiento Territorial
y Fortalecimiento Institucional del IBR" (see Annex 8 - Documents in Project
File).
1. Introduction and Background
(a) Institutional Framework, the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources
and the Environment (SSRNNA);
(b) Objectives of Agro-ecological Zoning;
(c) Activities to be undertaken by the SSRNMA;
(d)  Inter-Institutional Agreement between SSRNMA and SNC;
ae) Japanese PHRD Grant Fund Technical Assistance; and
(f)  Sub-Components:  (i)   Soils and Land Use Mapping
(ii) Information System and Related Studies.
2.   Soils and Land Use Mapping - Eastern ReZion
2.1       Background:  deforestation and inappropriate land use.
2.2       Objectives:  soil survey to determine use capacity.
2.3       Goals:  soil survey, use capacity and thematic mapping.
2.4       Methodology and Work Program:
(a) Revision and analysis of available information;
(b) Preliminary study;
(c) Base map at a scale of 1:250,000;
(d) Field work;
(e) Analysis of samples and field data;
(f) Determination of Use Capacity and mapping at a scale of
1:250,000;
(g) Determination of Agricultural Aptitude and mapping at a scale
of 1:250,000; and
(h) Publication of Use Capacity and Agricultural Aptitude maps at
a scale of 1:500,000.



-  62  -                        ANNEX 2.1
3.   Detailed Soils and Land Use Hapgina - Alto Parani and Itavfia
(Phase I): Caaguazu, Guair& and Caazapi (Phase II)
3.1       Background
3.2       Objectives
3.3       Goals
3.4       Methodology and Work Program:
(a) Revision and analysis of available information;
(h) Preliminary study, and production of base maps at a scale of
1:100,000;
(c) Field work;
(d) Analysis of samples and field data;
(e) Determination of soil taxonomy categories (to soil series
level);
(f) Determination of use capacity, and production of mapping at a
scale of 1:50,000;
(g) Determination of agricultural aptitude and three basic
thematic maps, and production of mapping at a scale of
1:50,000; and
(h) Publication of maps and technical supporting documents;
4.   ImIlmentatIRn - Soils and LandUjMgin
4.1       Executing Unit - SSRNMA/Environmental Directorate/Directorate of
Forest Resources
4.2       Costs
5.   Geographic Information Syste  (GIS) a__nd Related  tudies
5.1       Technical description of the GIS
5.2       Digital mapping
5.3       Geometric basis of the GIS
5.4       Thematic organization
5.5       Costs



PARAGUAT
LAND USE RATIONALIZAT!ON PROJECT
CIS Component: Chronorrn of Attivittes
1               2              3               4
TERRSIQUARTMI
2 II III IV   I 1I ll  IV  I  1 III  IV  I 1i  II!  IV  I  1I_III IV
50h AND lAND USE APPWm
EASTE1I REGIO
(a) analysi of available Infoation
(b) prelanary study
Cc) Dase mp production
(d) field work
(e) amples and data aunlss is
Ce) ap  nd technlcal report production
1SRAtA1-OW 0?TYPHSCL FAIIiS
CMzAz6=J;. CsUitA *nd. aszo I
(a) auolysre  of availble data                             *5*5
tb) prelnslaory study  and production of
bJJse mpI
Cc) field io    nk of i***ipuo
ad3 sple and data anlysis
(e) map and tecblufcal report production                                                  ****  *
INStvTATIATIO OF TMPHYtSICtFACMIntES
(a) procuremet of cater peripberals
and sof*vare
tb) iLn4ta1stion aud testing                                   **  *
Sc3 digit lizatlon of mps and Itt  of                                 **t*t*11****************
ancilr data
STUDIES
(a) Tes of Reference
(b) SeleciLon of Consultants
Cc) Campletlon of vock                                      *** **4*5*
N 
t-.



-  64  -                       ANNEX 2.2
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Geographic Information System and Bases for Agroecological
Zoning: Basic Work to be Undertaken under the Japanese PHRD Award
Introduction
1.        The data and information necessary to establish the basic framework
of the Geographic Information System (GIS) is fragmented and incomplete. The
grant awarded to the Government of Paraguay by the Government of Japan through
the Envirormental Trust Fund administered by the Bank (now consolidated into
the PHRD Fund), for the preparation of specific sub-components of the
Environmental Technical Assistance Project, will be used to complete and
consolidate the necessary information. This work is described in detail in
the document on technical specifications (see Annex 8), and is summarized
below.
Scope of Work
2.        For the first approximation at a scale of 1:250,000 all existing
data will be collected on geology, hydrology and hydrogeology, climate, soils,
actual land use and protected areas.
3.        The Eastern Repion will be divided into two areas:  (i) covering
approximately 100,000 km whlich lhas some soil study; (ii) covering
approximately 60,000 kz2 with no existing soil study work. For area (i), one
soil observation will be made per 100 km2 and at least 100 soil pits will be
dug. Of the 100,000 km2 it is estimated that 20,000 km2 do not need
additional work at this stage. For area (il), one soil observation will be
made per 20 1w2 and at least 60 soil pits will be dug.
4.        Field work will be initiated uning oxisting aerial photography and
LANDSAT imagery. Classification of soils and soil mapping will be baosd on
USDA methodology.
5.        Land will be classified by its "use capacity" using USDA
methodology which defines eight agrological categoriesp uoing sub-categories
corresponding to local adaptation. Thie soil, climate and topograplhy
parameters of the classification will be clearly defined.
6.        Soil mope and land use capability mapo will be prepared at a scale
of 1:250,000 and will be accompanied by a full technical report.
7.        The work will be undertaken by a team of local consultants withi
some international consulting support. The local consultants responsible for
field work will be provided with auxiliary staff end manual laborers. Three
professional. staff of the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the



-  65  -                       ANNEX 2.2
Environment (SSRNMA) will receive overseas training in aerial photo
interpretation and will work as counterpart staff in this program.  The SSRNMA.
will provide the necessary office, vehicles, counterpart staff and support
staff.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
PARAGUAY
LAND.USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Financing
Table                                             Page
Project Components per Year  .    .  .  .  .  .   . . . .   67
Project Components per Year Including Contingencies . .     68
Project Cost Summary  .  .. .... ...... .                   69
Summary Accounts by Year  ............ ...                  70
Summary Accounts by Year Including Contingencies. . . .     71
Summary Account by Project Component  , . . . . . . . .     72
Summary Account by Project Component  . D * * . * * * .     73



REPUaLIC CF PAWRGUAT
LA  USE RATIONALIZATINW  PROJECT
uss
Project Copcnents by Year
ease Costs                       Total
1992   1993    1994   1995    1996   USS    USS
A. Cadarstre
1. Coordinating Unit              656    734      672    561      518   3140   3140
2. Systems Cffice                 327    733    230    235    380    1905   1905
3. Cadastrat Wapping             17468    140    940       70      70   186I8   18688
4. Cadastrat Su.-veying              0      0    2750   2749    1365   6865   6865
S. Training                         52     50      50       26      0      178    173
6. Cadastral Operations           361     306      246    246    246   1403   1403
7. Valuation Operations           333    312      247    247    247   1386   1386
S. Parcel List ard File            1S7     a8      64      56      56    452    452
9. Declarations                    315     40      40      40      40    475    475
SUb-total                          19699   2402   5239   4231    2922  34493  34493
B. Geographic info System           545    557    520    317        126   2065   2065
C. Studies                           510     90       0       0       0    600    600
Total BASELIhI  COSTS             20754   3049   5759   4547   30C8  37158  37158
Physical Contingencies           1478     99    386      292    164   2420   2420
Price Contingencies               293     70    394    422    311   1490   1490
.. .. .... .. .... .... ... .. ........ .................
Total PROJECT COSIS               22525   3219   6539    5262   3524  41068  41068
Taxes                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Foreign Exchange               20555    1558   4461    3329   2053  31957  31957
astues scated by 1GO0.0 12/9/1991  16:56



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
LANDh USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Projects Calponents by Year
Totats inctudfiing Ccntingencies                   Totals Including Contingencies
USS                                                 USS
-- - - -- --.-  - - -     _- -  _--- - - -- - -    .  . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. ..............  .......
7992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Total            1992   1993   7994   7995   1996  Total
A. Cadastre
1. Coordirating Unit             671    761    702    584    539   3258            671    761    702    584    539   3258
2. System Cffice                 342    812    230    237    423   2043            342    812    230    237    423   2043
3. Cadastral Mapping           19106    162   1727        87     90  20572       19106    162   1127       87      90  20572
4. Cadastral Surveying             0       0   3297   3412   7754   8463             0       0   3297   3412   1754   8463
5. Trainfr.                       55      55      57     30       0    197          55      55      57     30       0    197
6.  adastral Operations          373    315    246    246    246   7424            373    31S    246    246    246   1424
7. Valuation Operations          347    320    247    247    247   7402            347    320    247    247    247   7402
C. Parcet List and Fite          201      90      66      59     59    476         201      90      66     59      59    476
9. Dectarations                  325      40      40      40     40    485         325      40      40     40      40    485
Sub-To:at                         21473   2556   6072   4941   3398  38319          21413   2556   6012   4947   3398  38319
S. Geographic Info System           567    564    527    320    126   2104            567    564    527    320    126   2704
C. Stuies                           545    S00        0      0       0    644         545    700        0      0       0    644
*otal PROJECTS COSTS              2252    3219   6539   5262   3524  41068          22525   3219   6539   5262   3524  41068
Values Scated by 1CC0.0 1219/1991  76:56                                                                                                                      co



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
USS                              USS                          % Total
.............................    ...........................   %   Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign     Totat       Local  foreign   Total      Exchange     Costs
..................... .........    ............................... .... ...... .... .........
A. Cadastre
1. Coordinating Unit              1378      1763      3140        1378      1763    3140           56         8
2. Systems Office                 1217       688      1905         1217     688    1905             36         5
3. Cadastral Rapping               210     18478     18688          210    18478    18688           99        50
4. Cadastral Surveying            1371      5494      6865         1371     5494    6865            80        18
S. Training                         12       166       178           12      166      178           93         0
6. Cadastral Operations           1154       250      1403         1154      250     1403           18         4
7. Valuation Operations           1218       168      1386        1218      168      1386           12         4
8. Parcet List and Fite            280       172       452          280      172      452           38         1
9. Dectarations                    421        53       475         421        53      475           11         1
....................... .......   --------------                ..................................
Sub-Total                            7261     27232     34493         7261    27232   34493            79        93
B. Geographic Info System            1392       673      2065         1392      673    2065            33         6
C. Studies                             80       520       60D          80      520      600            87         2
. . . ...   .. ............  .... ...   -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  ---- ---- ---- ----
Total BASELINE COSTS                 8733     28425     37158        8733    28425   37158             76       100
Physical Contingencies             177      2242      2420          177    2242      2420           93         7
Price Contingencies                201      1289      1490         201      1289    1490            87         4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 9111     31957     41068        9111    31957   41068             78       II I'
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 - 12/9/1991  16:55



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
USS
Suumawy Accounts by Year
Base Costs                               Foreign Exchange
1992     1993      1994      1995     1996    Total         %   Amount
1. INVESTMENT CCSTS
A. Construction                      137       85         0        0         0       222         19      42
S. Equipment                        699       490        10        9       150      1358         90   1223
C.  Furnishings                      78        35         0        6         0       118         20      24
D. Training                          28        28        So        3         0       109         1OO    109
E. Consultants                      694       379       223       151       96      1542         95   1462
F. Photos and Imagery              13486      183       975       92        80    14817         100  14817
G. Surveying                          0         0      2740      2740     1365      6845         80   5476
R. Vehicles                          125       25         0        0         0       1SO         90    135
1. Geodetics                       3736         0         0        0         0      3736         95   3566
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS             18983     1225      3998     3001      1691    28899          93  26854
I1. RECURRENT CCSTS
.. . _ .........................I
J. Salaries                        1199      1242      1222      1092      973      5728         14    780
K. Travel Experses                   137      169       148       92        50       594         34    205
L. Vehicte CM                        47        64        64       47        39       261         61    158                                               0
M. Other Operating Costs            389       350       327       315      295      1676         26    428
... ... ____.......   _._.. . . .._*-- *   ---_- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -  ----- --- --- ---
Total RECURRENT COSTS              I77       1825      1761      1546     1357      8259         19   1571
.._____  ......___...  ....__................ ........... ...................... .. .... ....   ................... ..
Totat BASELINE COSTS              20754      3049      5759      4547     3048    37158          76  28425
Physical Contingencies           1478       99       386       292      164      2420         93   2242
Price Contingercies               M93       70       394       422      311      1490         87   1289
Total PROJECT CCSTS               22525      3219      6539      5262     3524    41068          78  31957
Taxes                              0         0         0         0        0         0          0       0
Foreign Exchange               20555      1558      4461     3329      2053    31957         100  31957
Values Scated by 1000.0  1219/1991  6:56



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
UAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Summary Accour.ts by Year
Totals ncludi.ng Contingencies                       Totats Including Contingencies
USS                                                   USS
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  Total          1992    1993   1994   1995    1996  Total
i. IKVESTMENT COSTS
.......   .   .. ..
A. Construction                      153      98       O        0       0     251        153      98       0       0       0     251
S. Equipment                         782     568       12      12     193    1566        782     568      12      12    193    1566
C. Furnishings                        83      38       0        7       0     128         83      38       0       7       0     128
0. Training                           30      31       57       4       0     122         30      31      57       4       0     122
E. Consultants                       741     419     255      179     118   1712         741     419    255      179     118    1712
F. Photos and lrraSery             15094    213    1169       115     103   16693      15094     213    1169     115     103   16693
G. Surveyin3                           a       0    3285    3400    1754   8439            0       O   3285    3400    1754    8439
H. Vehicles                          134      28       0       0        0     161        134      28       0       0       0     161
1. Geodetics                        3736       O       0       O       0   3736         3736       0       0       0       0    3736
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             20753    1394   4779    3716    2167  32809         20753    1394   4779   3716    2167  32809
tI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries                         1199    1242    1222    1092    973P   5728         1199    1242    1222    1092     973    5728
S. Travel Expenses                   137     169      148     92       50     594        137     169    148       92      50     594
C. Vehicle O&M                        47      64      64      47       39    261          47      64      64      47      39     261
D. Other Operatin; Costs             389    350      327    315       295    1676        389     350    327    315       295    1676
Total RECURRENT CCSTS               1771    1825    1761    1546    13;7   8259         1771    1825   1761    1546    1357    8259
Total PROJECT COSTS                22525   3219   6539    5262    3524   41068         22525    3219   6539    5262    3524  41068
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0  12/9/199? 16:56



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Sumarr-y Account by Project Carponent
Uss
Cadastra           Cadastra  Valuatio
Coordina           Cedastra       I                  t         n      Parcet             Geograph
ting    Systems       l    Survoyin            Operatio Operatio  List arid Dectarat   ic Info
Unit     Office   Mapping       S    Training     ns        ns       File      ions    System   Studies
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
......... ..............__...,._.
A. Constructicn                         12        60         0         0        0        20        50         0        80         0         0
B. Equipment                             0       704       400        19         0       108        0         0         0       127         0
C. Furnishings                          16        25         0         0        0         0        55         9        12         0         0
D. Training                              0         0         0         0       109         0        0         0         0         0         0
E. Consultants                         848         0         0         0        54        0         0         0         0        40       600
F. Photos and !magery                    0        0      14552        0         0         0         0       157         0       107         0
G. Surveying                             0         0         0      6845        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
H. Vehicles                             25         0         0         0         0       50        50         0         0        25         0
1. Geodetics                            0         0      3736         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 901       789     18688      6865       163       178      155       166        92       299       600
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries                           1644       930         0         0        0       760       775       222       209      1188         0
B. Travet Expenses                     321         0         0         0        14       60         0         0        34       165         0
C. Vehicle O&M                          20         0         0         0        0        35        36         0         0       170         0
D. OtSer Operating Costs               254       186         0         0        0       370       420        64       140       242         0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 2239      1116         0         0        14     1225      1231       286       382      1765         0
Total BASELINE COSTS                  3140      1905     18688      6865       178     1403       1386      452       475      2065       600
Physical Contingencies               45         78      1495       686        8        15        10        16         9        27        30
Price Ccntingencies                   72        61       3&8      911        11         6         5         7         2        13        14
Total PROJECT COSTS                   3258      2043     20572     8463       197      1424      1402       476       485      2104       644
Taxes                                 0          0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Foreign Exchange                    1878      803     20357      6773       185       267       174       195        55       711       558
.....  .......            9   9.... ......1..................................................................... .0....................................
Vatues Seated by W 00.0 12/9/1991 16:55



REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAV
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Sumrary Account by Project Coapcnent
USS
Physical          Price
Contingencies     Contingencies
.................................
Total       X    Amount       X  Afvmunt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Construction                        222        10        22       3         8
B. Equipment                          1358        10       136       5        72
C. Furnishings                         118         5         6       3         4
D. Training                            109         5         5       7         7
E. Consultants                        1542         5        77       6        92
F. Photos and Imagery                14817        10      1482      3       395
G. Surveying                          6845        10       685      13      909
H. Vehicles                            150         5         7       2        4
t. Geodetics                          3736         0         0      0         0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               28899         8      2420       5      1490
It. RECURRENT COSTS
............ ................  
A. Salaries                           5728         0         0       0        0                                                                               -4
B. Travel Expenses                     594         0         0       0        0
C. Vehicle O&M                         261         0         0       0        0
D. Other Operating Costs              1676         0         0       0        0
._..............._.............. ............................................._
Total RECURRENT COSTS                8259         0          0      0         0
Total BASELINE COSTS                 37158        7       2420      4      1490
Physical Contingencies              2420
Price Contingencies                 1490        9        131
Total PROJECT COSTS                  41068        6      2551       4      1490
Taxes                                 0         0         0
Foreign Exchange                  31957         7      2355
u    c  ....... ....... 1............. 1  ..........2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 12/9/1991 16:55



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Traininx
1.        The proposed project would make major demands on the institutions
involved and would introduce new technology, re-creating the map base of the
Eastern Region and its underlying geodetic grid as well as establishing the
new cadastre and its supporting documents in the form of a computerized inter-
related information data base. An important program of technical assistance
(TA) and staff training will be required.
2.   Develogment of the Cadastre:  TA and training will be incorporated as
followss
2.1 Establiahment of the Geodetic Grid: the support from the IAGS to the
DSGM will be made using U.S. Governmont specialists working in teams with DSGM
counterpart staff. A workshop/seminar will precede the field work. In
addition, IAGS will provide specialists in aerial photography and map product
quality control to train DSGH staff and to work with them during the duration
of the aerial photography and mapping contracts.
2.2 The Project Coordination and Management Unit will be staffed by short-,
medium-, and long-term consultants with experience in the establishment of
cadastres and related data-bases, computer systems, surveying, etc. The UTAP
will be of key importance in supporting the SNC in project implementation, and
will be responsible for the organization of internal training courses for the
staff of SNC, as described in Annex 1.3.
3. Development of the Geographic Information System (GIS) and its first
lvel of information: the preparation of soils, land suitability and present
land use maps will be carried out mainly by Paraguayan technicians, supported
by a small number of internationally-recruited specialists in key areas (e.g.,
overall coordination of soils mapping and land classification, installation of
computer facilities)r In addition, three technicians from SSRNMA will
undertake short courses in Colombia on satellite image and aerial photography
interpretation.



- 75 -
ANIEX 5.1
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
FY                   Semester                  Disbursement              Cumulative
(US$ Million)
92                         2                           1.0*/                  1.0
93                         1                          8.3                     9.3
2                          8.3                   17.6
94                         1                          0.6                    18.2
2                          0.6                   18.8
95                         1                          2.5                    21. .3
2                          2.5                   23.1.8
96                         1                           1.9                   2.5.7
2                          1.8                   27.5
97                         1                           1.5                   291.0
j/   Initial deposit Into the Special Account, recovered In FY 96 & 97.



- 76 -
ANNEX 5.2
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project                         Project Years                Total
Element                1     2     3     4      5     6     Payments   Remarks
Loan Timing
Signature            X
Effectiveness        X
Closing                                               X
Works
Aerial Photography   7.6                                     7.6      ICB
XXXKX
Orthophoto Maps             9.0                              9.0      ICB
XXXXx
Goods                 0.5   1.6                               2.1      ICB,LCB
XXKXXXXXXXX                                     & LS
Service Contracts
Cadastral Survey                  3.3   3.4   1.7            8.4
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Geodetices            3.7                                    3.7    4NBF
Consulting,Services   1.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3             2.8
xxxxxKxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
other
Operational
Expenses             1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5            7.5     NBP
XX2XXXXKxKKXXXKXXXXXXXXKXXX
Total                 14.7  12.5   5.2   5.2   3.5
Bank-Financed          9.5  11.0   3.7   3.7   2.0           29.9 !'
s/  Bank loan of US$29.0 million and PHRD grant of US$0.9 million.



PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Cadastral Cocponent: Schedule of Honitorable Actions
Target Date-for Completion            Responsibilitv
A. First Phase
1. Establishment of UTAP and appointment        Effectiveness [Harch 1992]            SNC
of Director
2. ftl staffing of UTAP                         June 1992                             SNC
3. Analysis of available data                   March 1993                            SNC/UTAP
4. "Sworn Declaration" exercise                 August 1993                           SNC/UTAP
5. Provisional Parcel File and Provisional      November 1993                         SNC/UTAP
Taxpayer Listing
B. Second Phase
1. Establishment of geodetic grid
1.1  Agreement between GOP & IAGS            December 1991                         IAGS/DSGM
1.2  Completion of monuments                 July 1992                             IAGS/DSGM
1.3 Recalculation of datum                   September 1992                        IAGS/DSGM
2. Aerial Photography
2.1  TOR preparation and prequalification   January-March 1992                     SNC/UTAP
of firms
2.2  Bid document preparation                February 1992                         SNCIUTAP
2.3  ICB and contract award                  June 1992                             SNC/UTAP
2.4  Aerial photography laboratory           June 1992                             SNC/UTA?
2.5  Execution of contract, delivery of      October 1992                          Contractors
photography, etc.
3. Orthophoto Map Production
3.1 TOR preparation and prequalification   June 1992                               SNC/UTAP
of firms



3.2  Bid document preparation                July 1992                             SNC/UTAP
3.3  ICB and contract award                  October 1992                          SNC/UTAP
3.4  Execution of contract, completion of   December 1993
delivery of maps                                                              Contractors
4. Cadastral Survey                             December 1996                         Contractors
5. Acquisition of Data Processing Equipment
5.1  Preparation of TOR                      November 1992                         SNC/UTAP
5.2  Preparation of bid documents            January 1993                          SNC/UTAP
5.3  Bidding and contract award              March 1993                            SMC/UTAP
5.4  Delivery, installation and testing      June 1993                             Supplier
6. Development of Software and Information      October 1993                          SNC/UTAP
System Training
7. Training                                     October 1993                          SNC/UTAP
8. Transfer of Cadastral Information            June 1997                             SNC/UTAP
[from cadastral survey to information system)
B. Third Phase                                     Taroet Date (Commencement)
1. Establishment of Western Region Office       June 1994                             SNC/UT1P
2. Establishment of GIS Technical Group         November 1992                         SNC/UTAP
3. Implementation of Information System         June 1994                             SNC/UTAP
4. Definitive Parcel Data File                  September 1994                        SNC/UTAP
5. Definitive Revaluation of Parcels            September 1994                        SNC/UTAP
6. Enhanced Collection of Property Tax          September 1993                        SNC/UTAP
I
X-



PARAGUAY
LARD USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
GIS Component: Schedule of Monitorable Actions
Target Date                   Responsibilitv
1.  Entry into effect of Japanese PERD                 November 1991                  GOP/Bank
grant agreement
2.  Reconnaiscence soil survey, basic                   start February 1992           Consultants
and thematic map production                        finish January 1993            SSRNMA
3.  Semi-detailed soil survey, basic and               start January 1993             SSRNHA
thematic map production                            finish January 1994            Consultants
4.  Design specifications, acquisition of              July-September 1992            SSRNMA
computer, peripherals and software, and
installation
5.  Tnput of soils data and maps into the GIS          February 1993 -                Consultants/
December 1995                 SSRNHA
6.  Associated studies:
6.1  Terms of Reference                            January 1992                   Consultants
6.2  Selection of consultants                      March 1992                     Consultants
6.3  Completion of work                            December 1992                  Consultants



PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Studies Com,onent: Schedule of Ianitorable Actions
Target Date             Responsibility
under the coordination
of the GTIMAG:
1. Role of the Public Sector in AMriculture.
and recommendations for change:
Phase I    Diagnosis                                                         Consultants
Discussions and agreement                October 1992
Phase II   Formulation of detailed                  April 1993               Consultants
reco;mendations                                                                                    Co
2. imPrOvement in the System of Land Titling:
Phase I    Diagnosis of existing system             November 1992            Consultants
Phase II   Specification of alternatives
for improvement                          March 1993              Consultants
Phase III  Detailed design of the process,          June 1993                Consultants
including cost estimates and timing
3. Analysis of Policy affecting Land Use               December 1992            Consultants
4. Analysis of the Legal Framework, and
Recommendations to promote Rational Land
Use and Ordenamiento Territorial                    December 1992            Consultants
5. The Role of Indigenous People in Natural
Resource Manapement                                 December 1992            Consultants



- 81 -
ANNEX 7
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.        The project requires the close coordination of a number of
participating institutions with the implementing agency, large up-front
expenditures on contracts for aerial photography and mapping, and the
incorporation of sophisticated information technology. The UTAP will play a
key role and, once established, will receive significant amounts of technical
assistance to enable it to implement the project within the structure of the
SNC.
2.        Bank supervision will be centered on close communication with the
UTAP at all times, two supervision missions per year and two detailed mid-term
reviews.
3.        The staff involved will be:
Task lianager (TM)
Land Use Planning Specialist (LUS)
Cadastrgal Specialist (CS)
Information Technology Specialist (ITS)
Institutional Development Specialist (IDS)



PAfCUAI
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision
HUP * on                          Date                                          Objectives9t
92             At effectiveness                April, 1992                    To examine progress with respect to: the operations of the
TN, LUS, CS, lDo                                              SHC and UTAP; the work of lAGS on the geodetic grid;
prequalification and biddlig on aerial photograpby,
processing of existing cadastral luformation; preliminary
study and commencement of field work on soils survey.
93             TM, LUS, ITS                    September, 1992                To examine progress with respect to: aerial photography and
map production; acquisition of computer; progress wiLh sworn
declaration exercise; field work, sample analysis and
beginning of soil map productiou.
93             TN, LUS                        March, 1993                     To examine progress with respect to. the provlslonal parcel
file and taxpayer listing; cadastral map production;
computer facilities; data analysis and maps production;
preparatinn for semi-detailed soil study.
94             TH, LUS, CS, ITS, IDS          September, 1993                 Mid-Term Revilew:  Completion of cadastral mapping and First
Phase activities; installation of completed information
system and completion of training activities; installation
of GIS equipment; digitalisation of maps and ancillary data
input; agreement between Bank and GOP on the maintenance
requirements and appropriate fnmdlng for the completed
cadastre.
94             TN, CS                         March, 1994                     To examine progress witb respect to: the preparations for
the cadastral survey; progress with GIS.
95             TN, ITS, LUS                   September, 1994                 To examine progress with respect to: the cadastral survey;
the functioning of the computer system; all Third Phase
activlties; progress with the GIS.
95             TM, LUS, CS, ITS, IDS          March, 1995                     Mid-Term Review: Progress with cadastral mapping; all Third
Phase activities; transfer of information to the data base;
completion of semi-detailed soil survey.
96             TN, CS                          September, 1995                To review progress with cadastral mapping and data transfer;
all Third Phase activitles; completion of CIS.
96             Tf, CS                         March, 1996                     As above.
97             IN, CS, LUS                     September 1996                 To examine progress towards completion of cadastral survey; 
transfer of data; completion of all Third Phase activities;-
PCR.
11 Refers to Annexes 1.2; 2.1; 6.1; 6.2; and 6.3



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
1.   Proyecto Catastro Rural, Bases para el Ordenamiento Territorial y
Fortalecimiento Institucional del IBR.
Ministerio de Hacienda, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Instituto
de Bienestar Rural, December 1990.
2.   Proyecto Catastro Rural, Bases para el Ordenamiento Territorial y
Fortalecimiento Institucional del IBR.
Revised Version, May 1991.
3.   Servicio Nacional de Catastro, Manual de Organizaci6n y Funciones.
Dr. Eduardo Carenzo, September 1991.
4.   Unidad T6cnica de Apoyo al Proyecto de Catastro Rural (UTAP), Propuesta
de Organizaci6n.
Dr. Eduardo Carenzo, September 1991.
5.   Japanese PHRD Grant, Detailed Work Program.
6.   Ley No. 109/91 Funciones y Estructura Org&nica del Hinisterio de
Hacienda, Poder Legislativo



-  84  -                       ANNEX 9
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Aareed Plans of Action and Inter-Institutional Agreements
1.        Agre.d Plan of Action (APA) between the National Cadastral Service
(SNC) and the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR).
1.01      The objective of the Agreed Plan of Action (APA) is to generate a
cadastral register from the archives of the IBR which will serve as the basis
for the proper organization of the existing Registro Agrario in IBR.
1.02      A joint office will be established to define three aspects of the
data kept by the IBR: location, tenancy, and valuation of land-holdings.
1.03      The Retistro Agrario of IBR will provide all the information
necessary to create the Cadastre of Colonies of the IBR.  The information to
be provided comprises: available maps and other drawings, layouts, etc.;
deeds of ownership; lot numbers; names of settlers; resolution& supporting the
modifications of the original property titles; and all other relevant
information.
1.04      The SNC will provide the methodology and the technical equipment
necessary to establish a multiple-use cadastral record which will contain the
ownership and cadastral record of each parcel of land.  The data will be
processed in a first phase with the existing data of the Registro Agrario and
of the cadastral records of SNC.
1.05      The new aerial photography and up-dated cadastral mapping (to be
generated under the project) will replace the existing records of the IBR.
The SNC will maintain the new cadastral register with the permanent
participation of the IBR.
1.06      The SNC will assign to each land parcel a unique and permanent
geographic location code, which will serve as the identifying code for the
creation of a single listing of IBR settlers and debtors.
1.07      The IBR will incorporate the cadastral nomenclature into the title
of the property as the permanent identification of the land parcel. The IBR
will transfer to the SNC any addition, deletion or modification which might be
produced in the parcels which have been or are to be adjudicated.
1.08       The IBR will inform the SNC of all acquisitions or expropriations
of property for sub-division, and the SNC will cooperate in the process of
adjudication and generation of the cadastral record.
1.09      In order to perform the tasks described above, the personnel
assigned to the office of the Registro Agrario for the IBR settlements will



-  85  -                       ANNEX 9
define a work aethodology and sequence of steps to be followed, in order to
avoid unnecessary steps and/or repetitions.
1.10      The SNC and the IBR will assign the budgets necessary to finance
the establishment of the office and its operations.
2.        Agreed Plan of Action (APA) between the National Cadastral Service
(SNC) and the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
(SSRNMA) of the Hinistrv of Agriculture and Livestock (HAG).
2.01      The objective of the Agreed Plan of Action (APA) is to consolidate
a policy of "ordenamiento territorial" for a rational use of the existing
land, forest and water resources.
2.02      The SNC will provide to the SSRNMA one copy of the set of aerial
photography acquired in the course of implementing the Land Use
Rationalization Project.
2.03      The SNC will provide to the SSRNMA the information required for the
development of the Geographic Information System (GIS) concerning:
(a)  the division of land into parcels;
(b)  improvements to and investments made in land holding;
(C)  general improvements and investments made in different regions
or areas of the country; and
(d)  assessment values of land.
2.04      The SNC, the SSRNNA, and the Technical Office (GT) of the MAG will
jointly establish the method for making compatible the information systems
with special emphasis on graphic processes (software).
2.05      The SSRNMA will cooperate with the SNC in the process of evaluation
of:
(a) actual land use; and
(b) land capability (potential land use).
The GT will cooperate with the SNC in the development of representative farm
models for each agro-ecological zone of the country.
2.06      The SSRNMA will define risk zones by micro-watersheds, to enable
the SNC, in the process of cadastral surveying, to cross-reference this
information with data on use and distribution of land. This information will
be used by the SSRNMA to design the policies of "ordenamiento territorial" and
of support to the GIS.
2.07      The SNC and the SSRNMA will use the data to propose a political
division of the country by district based on the geographic location and
distribution of the sub- and micro-watersheds of the country.



-  86  -                       ANNEX9
2.08      The SSRNHA, together with the SNC and the GT, will undertake the
coordination of all other institutions with an interest in the GIS, in order
to agree on the use of instruments and of the data.
2.09      The SNC, the SSRNMA and the GT will designate the staff responsible
for the inter-institutional work described.
2.10      The GT will participate, together with the SSRNMA, in the studies
concerning environmental policy and the development of appropriate legal
instruments for natural resource management, which will be carried out under
the Land Use Rationalization Project. The SNC will cooperate in those aspects
concerning the cadastral records.
2.11      The technical staff, referred to in 2.9 above, will prepare a
timetable of work and necessary resources to make this APA operational.
3.        AFreed Plan of Action (APA) between the National Cadastral Service
(SNC)and the Denartment of Survey and Geodetics (DAG) - General Directorate
for Public Works (DGOP) of the Hinistry of Public Works and Comunications
pLOPC).
3.01      A Technical Unit will be created within the DAG with staff
designated by the SNC and the DGOP.
3.02      The Unit will be supported by two staff members of the SNC, on a
full-time basis, in addition to the counterpart team of DAG/DGOP.
3.03      The objective of this APA is to integrate the surveying undertaken
by the DAG and its records with that undertaken by the SNC in the development
of the national cadastre.
3.04      The DAG will provide to the SNC access to all the information,
including all maps and drawings, which will form the basis for establishment
of the cadastre. Copies of all existing information will be obtained by the
SNC to constitute the ownership and cadastral records of each parcel of land.
3.05      The SNC will cooperate through the provision of resources under the
project in the installation in DAG-of a process to systematize the available
information into computerized records and, where graphic information is
concerned, into microfilm.
3.06      The Technical Unit will be responsible for the systematic
incorporation into the cadastre's graphic record of all the plans registered
in the DAG. The SNC will provide to the DAG a copy of all the cadastral
mapping which is produced under the project, anid its up-dating.
3.07      The Technical Unit will carry out the studies to incorporate in the
existing legal framework the necessity to require proper survey in the
registry of property titles.



-  87  -                        ANNEX 9
3.08      The Technical Unit will define the work program and be responsible
for the up-dating of the budget each year to ensure the maintenance of the
information.
4.        Inter-Inatitutional Agreement between the National-Cadastral
Service tSNC) and the Directorate of the Military GeoRraphic Service (DSGM).
Given:  the dispositions contained in Law No.          of the Carta OrgAnica of
the DSGM, and the functions assigned to the SNC in the Decree Law No. 51/52
and the Decree Law No. 15 concerning the administrative organization of the
Ministry of Finance (HH); and
Considerinzs that within the framework of the National Cadastral Project
(i.e., the Land Use Rationalization Project) prepared by the Government of
Paraguay (GOP) with the technical cooperation of the World Bank, which will
start to be implemented in 1992, arises the urgent need to sign this Agreement
between both institutions;
that for this purpose the modernization of the geodetic grid is
essential, as a fundamental step in the process of obtaining aerial
photography and the map products derived from it in an adjusted manner; and
that the availability of the geodetic grid will maximize the
use of the derived cartographic products for the project and for all the
applications which other public and private bodies might have to support the
development of the country;
Therefore: in conformity with existing legal instruments both official
representatives hereby agree:
Article 1. The specific objectives of this Agreement are to achieves
(a) the re-establishment of the geodetic grid of Paraguay;
(b) the re-calculation of the geodetic datum of Paraguay;
(c) the implementation of a program of training for the control of
quality of the flights for the taking of aerial photography
and associated processes;
(d) the implementation of a program of training for the control of
quality of the production of aerial photographs and orthophoto
maps.



-  88  -                       ANNEX 9
Article 2. In order to achieve the objectives specified above (under
"considerations"), and in Article 1 above, the DSGM and the SNC will proceed
to:
(a) prepare jointly the methodology for pre-qualification of
companies and the bidding documents for the international
competitive bidding process for the taking of aerial
photography and the production of photographs, orthophoto maps
and topographic maps;
(b) cooperate in the establishment of the Supervision Unit for the
quality control of photographs and map products to be produced
under the project; and
(c) officially request the cooperation of the Inter-American
Geodetic Survey (IAGS) to meet the objectives set out in
Article 1 above concerning the geodetic grid and the training
of personnel.
Article 3. Both institutions agree to cooperate with the IAGS, providing the
following general conditions:
(a) the provision of office accommodation as well as the equipment
and instruments available for the work to be undertaken by
DSGM;
(b) the provision of vehicles necessary for the field work
associated with the establishment of the geodetic grid;
(c) the provision of technical and support staff to make up the
field teams (one chief technician, one assistant technician, a
driver and auxiliary staff, in proportion to the number of
teams which IAGS will assign to the exercise); and
(d) the provision of subsistence expenses for such staff, fuel for
vehicles and materials for the production of approximately
1,100 monuments.
Article 4. The financing of the budgetary support described in Article 3
above will be provided for in special items in the national budget, for which
both institutions will use their best efforts with the appropriate national
authorities.
Article 5. The implementation of the tasks by the National Governmexnt will be
considered as expenditures under the National Cadastral Project (i.e., Land
Use Rationalization Project) to be partially financed by the World Bank, in
order that the funds so expended will be able to be recognized as eligible for
retroactive financing under the conditions which the eventual loan agreement
(between the Government and the Bank) will stipulate.



-  89  -                        mNEX 9
Article 6. For the purposes of calculation of the support of each institution
and of the non-reimbursable technical cooperation to be received from the
IAGS, the activities will be calculated on the basis of 1100 xyz control
points, as described in Annex 11 of the project preparation document.
Article 7. Attached to the present Agreement is the schedule of tasks for the
establishment of the geodetic grid.
Article 8. Concluding Considerations.
I-        The present Agreement is not subject to change in its basic
conditions until the completion of the items established and the
implementation of the Agreement in accordance with the conditions
specified hereby.
II-       The modification of the Agreement will be made by means of the
agreement in writing of both institutions.
III-      In acceptance of all terms and conditions of this Agreement, it is
entirely subscribed by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of
Defense...
5.        Inter-Institutional Agreement between the National Cadastral
Service (SNC) and the General Directorate of the Public E.esatrv (DGRP).
Given: the urgent need of the institutions to which this convenio pertains to
rationalize, obtain and exchange information related to both urban and rural
cadastres, as well as information relevant to the potential and actual use of
land and other geographic information; and
that the institutions are sources and/or users of information related
to the s -hange, modification or creation of legal rights over real estate
assets .nd cadastral registers; and
Considering: that one suitable method for achieving the objectives is that of
determining those sectors in which an inter-action within the framework of
coordination and inter-institutional cooperation can achieve an operational
improvement between institutions as is the case of the SNC and the DGRP, whose
areas of operation have certain similar characteristics;
that only through the implementation of mechanisms for
integration and coordinated action between the organizations involved can the
required rationalization of information be achieved;
that, therefore, a bilateral initiative between both
institutions is required to begin work to correct the errors and imperfections
of the past and define a coordinated plan of action to overcome them;



-  90  -                       4_NEX9
Therefore: the SEC and the DGRP through tlhe offices of their respective heads
hereby agree and resolve:
Article 1. To establish a Committee -omposed of and coordinated by the
nirector of the SNC and the Director of the DGRP;
Article 2. The committee will have as ita main function the creation of an
Office to undertake the following:
1.   carry out the legal, institutional and operational analysis
necessary to create a Real Estate Register using the system of
"folio real" based on the geo-referenced map products and other
data of the multi-purpose cadastre;
2.   supervise the studies of the titling process which will be
undertaken under the Land Use Rationalization Project;
3.   maintain a permanent link between the two institutions, using the
"cedula catastral" as the basic document; and
4.   undertake any other function which the Committee shall consider
appropriate for the achievements of the objectives of this
Agreement.
Article 3. The DGRP comm4.ts itself to provide all the material available to
enable the Office to carry out its functions in a proper manner; at the same
time, the SNC commits itself to define the methodology by which the work of
the Office can be carried out to make compatible the information between both
registers.
Article 4. In order to comply with the terms of this Agreement, the Office
will be located in the facilities of the judiciary, and for this purpose the
DGRP commits itself to provide office space, staff and equipment as necessary.
The SNC will assign the necessary technical staff and part of the equipment
required.
Article 5. In acceptance of all terms and conditions specified herein, the
present Agreement is signed by duly authorized heads of both institutions...
Director                                                    Director General
SEC                                                         DGRP



-  91  -                       ANNEX 10,1
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Studies Component: Terms of Reference
Study 1: Institutional Analysis of the A.ricultural Sector
Prggosal for Institutional Strengthening and Organization.
1. Introduction
The objective of the study would be to analyze the structure,
objectives and capacity of the main public sector institutions in the
agricultural sector (mainly MAG and its dependencies, and including the IBR)
and formulate recommendations for change.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) is studying a new
organic charter establishing the Ministry's organic and functional structure.
This organic charter must be approved by Decree of the Executive Power and
would consolidate the Ministry's new organizational structure. The existing
structure was created by Decree of the Executive Power No. 1924, of July 1989,
and modified by Decree of the Executive Power No. 6815, of August 1990. In
accordance with these legal provisions MAG has three Under-Secretariats:
Agriculture, Livestock and Natural Resources, the structures of which are as
follows:
(a) Under-Secretariat of Agriculture: Directorates of (i) Agricultural
Research, (ii) Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service, (iii)
Agriculture and Livestock Vocational Education and Training, (iv)
Plant Protection, (v) Marketing and Agricultural Economics, (vi)
Agricultural Standards and Quality Control, and (vii) National
Seeds Service.
(b) Livestock Under-Secretariat: Directorates of (i) Livestock
Protection, (ii) Feadstuff and Livestock By-Products Control, and
(iii) Research and Livestock Production.
(c) Under-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment:
Directorates of (i) Par!;s and Wildlife, (ii) Environment, and (iii)
Forestry Service.
Each Under-Secretariat has an Administrative Directorate, and the
Administrative Directorate of the Ministry is responsible for the centralized
aspects of budget and spending execution.
The Technical Cabinet, the Agricultural Statistics Directorate, as
well as the Administration and the Private Secretariat, are subordinate to the
Minister from a functional point of view.



-  92  -                       ANNEX 10.1
The decentralized entities subordinated to HAG are: SENACSA
CServicio Nacional de Sanidad Animal), CAH (Crdito Agricola de Habilitaci6n),
PERTIPAR (Fertilizantes del Paraguay) and IBR (Instituto de Bienestar Rural).
2.   Present Situation
The substantial growth rates experienced by the agricultural
aector, supported by the expansion of the agricultural frontier and with the
concomitant loss of the forestry resource, have seriously endangered the
preservation of natural resoure.es. The need to modify the present growth path
demands a functional structure for the Ministry that would allow it to face
with sufficient agility the new programs that must be implemented. These
programs are related to the achievement of a self-sustained production system,
involving the regulation of the use and the preservation of natural resources
and greater crop diversification.
In addition, the recent creation of MERCOSUR and the integration of
markets in the participating countries in the near future require
institutional adjustments to face the integration process realistically and
dynamically. The aspects with priority would be those related to market
studies, research for production diversification, investments in agricultural
enterprises, land transportation and waterways.
Furthermore, the political changes experienced by the Government
require the adjustment of the institutional structures to the flexibility and
participation involved in the democratic system.
3.  The Study
The study would be based on the government's decision to carry out
deep institutional change, characterized by the participation of the municipal
institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private enterprises and
producers' associations of every type.
4.   Ubiectives of the Study
The basic objectives and goals of the study would be:
(a3 to analyze HAG's present structure, including its decentralized
entities;
(b) to determine HAG's priority areas of intervention;
tc) to describe MAG's role in the country's agrarian institutional
system;
(d) to suggest possible changes to MAG's structure, describing the main
functions of each department in the system;



-  93  -                       ANNEX 10.1
(e) to prepare the design of the new operational and functional
structure of MAG's institutional system;
(f) to prepare the draft bill for MAG's Organic Charter; and
(g) to prepare the following plane: Programs and Functions,
Investments and Costs, and the Programs for Personnel
Reincorporation.
5.   Contents of the Study
The contents of the study address each of the proposed objectives,
which are arranged in three parts in order to assure a better performance;
Part I -    Diagnosis, will include objectives (a), (b) and (c).
Part II -  Adjustment proposals, will include objectives (e), (f)
and (f).
Part III - Programs and Costs.  In order to implement the new
institutional system, there are specific tasks and
programs to be carried out.
Dia0nosis
5.01     The analysis of MAG's present structure, including the decentralized
entities. This aspect would include, among others, the study of the
institutional organization, the decision-making processes, personnel
management, financial administration, responsibility levels, control systems,
and program evaluation mechanisms. In addition, it would include the
mechanisms of coordination with the private sector as well as a complete study
of physical, financial and human resources available to the institution, and a
brief analysis of its present level of utilization.
5.02     Determination of MAG's priority areas of intervention and the need
for institutional strengthening. This aspect must cover an analysis of the
present and future problems of the rural sector; the prospects of Paraguay's
integration in MERCOSUR; MAG's policies in the short and medium term;
identification of the priority sectors of intervention (for instance,
preservation of natural resources, agrarian reform, technological development,
transportation, marketing, credits, organization and participation of private
enterprises and non-governmental organizations). At the same time, the
analysis would cover identification of strategic services to promote the self-
sustained development of the rural, agricultural and forestry sectors.
5.03     Description of MAG's role in the country's agrarian institutional
system. This aspect would define MAG's role in the agrarian institutional
system considering all other institutions responsible for   fining and
implementing the country's agrarian policies. It would also determine the
relationship with the private sector, specially with producers organizations,



-  94  -                       ANNEX 10.1
trade associations, non-governmental organizations, municipalities, technical
and financial cooperation organizations, both multilateral and bilateral.
Pronosals
5.04     Proposals for MAG's structural adlustments.  Based on the results of
Parts I, II and III, the consultants would submit proposals for MAG's
structural adjustments and each one of the subordinate or decentralized
services. A General Organization Chart, including MAG and the subordinate and
decentralized agencies would be designed, describing the functions of the main
levels. Furthermore, the proposals would include operational and implementing
systems of the programs, indicating the form of private participation, if
feasible.
5.05     Preparation of the design for the Rroiosed structures.  After
approval of the basic institutional reorganization proposals, NAG's operation
and procedures manual would be designed. Consultants would prepare a
Personnel Reincorporation Program within the institutional adjustment process
and submit a timetable for the implementation of the activities regarding the
institutional reorganization, as well as the institutional mechanism which
should be implemented to carry out the reorganization program.
5.06     Pregaration of the draft legislation approving MAG's Organic Charter.
After a detailed analysis of MAG's present legal framework, and taking into
account the Administrati-e Laws regulating the operation of the Executive
Power, Consultants would prepare a bill of HAG's Organic Charter, which would
include the preparation of specific legal instruments to regulate the
functioning of each department.
Programs and Costs
5.07     This part would include the preparation of the programs with the
implementation schedules and the corresponding implementation costs. It would
also include the estimate of the reorganization costs, with a breakdown by
investment categories and implementation schedules, and the effective
regionalization of the administrative and technical functions in the present
structure of the Ministry.
6.   Implementing unit
A technical unit functionally related to the Minister would be
created, which wnuld be in charge of preparing the project under four basic
aspects: administrative, accounting, legal and its resulting costs.
7.   Inputs
The unit would be staffed with specialists in the design and
implementation of institutional programs and reforms in the agricultural
sector as well as in the following specific areas: transportation, regional
economic integration in NERCOSUR, and agroindustries.



-  95  -                       ANEX 10. 1
The study will have a duration of ten months and would demand a total
of approximately 36 consultant/months.
8.   Terms of Reference for Consultants of HAG's Institutional Reform and
Strengthen n2.
8.1. Lawvyer
Specialist in sectorial legislation, who would carry out the following
tasks:
-   Analysis of the present legislation and critical summary of the
structure;
-   Comparative legislative analysis regarding cases in countries where
Ministries of Agriculture were reorganized;
-   Relationship between sectorial policy and centralized and
decentralized institutions (in the areas of Vocational Training,
Exteneion, Research and Credit)
-   Evaluation of the institutional relationships between centralized and
autonomous entities (IBR, BNF (Banco Nacional de Fomento), CAH,
FERTIPAR and related ones);
-   Submit a preliminary draft for discussion with local authorities;
-   The second phase must be carried out in accordance with the schedule
of the rest of the consultants. In this phase he/she would analyze
the proposals from the rest of the team, and integrate them to the
reform final draft.
8.2 Economist - Manager /Specialist in OM (Organization and Methods)
This Consultant would:
-   Study the preser.t organization and produce a critical report to be
used as a basis by others, specially the systems analyst;
-   Analyze the preliminary draft of Phase I and produce a proposal for
its implementation;
-   Prepare operation manuals up to Directorate level;
-   Propose an evaluation system of the new structure;
-   Program the activities to be carried out and their costs.
8.3 Accountant - Administrator
Specialist in public accounting and administration system.



-  96  -                       ANNEX 10.1
Taking into account, the national administration and accounting Law, the
Consultant wouldt
-   Analyze the accounting system and charts of accounts; being presently
used;
-   Analyze the new structure and the proposed legal rules
-   Design the proposal for an accounting system and chart of accounts
adapted to the new structure (looking in particular at the
decentralization of functions and activities)
8.4  Social Scientist
Specialist in the participation and organization of entities. The
Consultant would:
-   Study the proposal for institutional organization;
-   Analyze the feasibility of integrating public and non-government
organizations (enterprises and unions, workers and entrepreneurs)
covering tasks, programs and studies in marketing, regional
integration, transportation, agroindustries and credits;
-   Verify the possibility of integration of these operational units in
the described institutional structure;
-   Prepare a proposal regarding the creation of decentralized offices in
the above stated subjects, the impact of their operation, costs,
financing and cost recovery.
8.5 Economist - Expert in Sectorial Policies and Strategies
The Consultant would:
-   Study and assess the existing agricultural policies.  Results
achieved and sectorial situation. This would cover the following
policies: credit and technical assistance, research, producers
organization, rural and enterprise participation, the foreign and
domestic trade and MERCOSUR, integration of the transportation
network with emphasis on river ports and waterways, etc.;
-   Prepare a summary of the preceding policies and outline the strategy
of the national agricultural sector, to be translated into guidelines
of sectorial policy.
8.6. Consultants with eg2erience in institutional organization and
restructuring by sub-sectors
8.7. Study Coordinator - ARricultural Engineer - Administrator with experience
in similar tasks.



-  97  -                        ANNEX 10.1
The Consultant would have the following duties:
-   Direct the studies;
-   Exhaustive preparation of the terms of reference of the specialised
Consultants in each sub-sector and the schedules for the
participation of each expert
-   Supervise the activities of each consultants;
-   Administration of the project.



-  98  -                        NNEX 10.2
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Studies Comopent: Terms of Reference
Study 2: Study of the Land Titling Process
1.   Introduction
The study would include a detailed analysis of the existing system
of land titling and recommendations for improvement based on the new cadastre.
Carrying out the national cadastre is a necessary bvi  not sufficient,
condition to re-organize the titling process and improve the rural real estate
records. This process would permit the improvement of the land market,
quickly proceed to regularize the situation of occupants and awardees of IBR,
and solve the conflicts arising from lack of legitimate title deeds.
2.   The Obiective of the Study
The objectives of the study would be to analyze the legal,
institutional and operational implication of implementing a Real Estate
Register based on the system of "folio real" in place of the present
descriptive system.
3.   The Study
The study would look at the three basic aspects, related to the
implementation of a new real estate recording system. It would produce an
operating proposal with the successive steps to be implemented, all supported
by draft legislation to be approved by Congress.
The system must consider two possibilities: (a) physically
transferring to the Real Estate Register Office all the cadastral information
to establish the title; and (bi) the alternative of generating a gradual
clean-up and consolidation process. In both cases, the IBR must be considered
as an institution to be integrated into the process, in agreement with the
procedural rules to be followed.
The unit implementing the study would be coordinated with the
Directorates of Public Registry and National Cadastral Service, through an
agreement that will establish the modus operandi of the Technical team.
This agreement is under elaboration under the supervision of the
Judicial Power authorities.
4. Sumnarv of the Terms of Reference of the Consultants
4.1 Expert in Legislation. Titlinig and Cadaster.
-    Analyze the present and comparative legislation;



-  99  -                       ANNEX10.2
-    Coordinate with the Judicial and Legislative powers the aspects of
the rules under discussion to be reviewed or modified;
-    Prepare prellminary drafts for discussion by the three powers;
-    Participate in seminars of internal discussion;
-    Coordinate with the other experts the aspects related to procedure,
administration and systems;
-    Elaborate the draft bill and the regulation for those articles so
requiring.
4.2 Expert in Legal Procedures
-    Analyze present and comparative legislation;
-    Integrate a technical team to discuss the contents of the present
rules and those to be formulated;
-    Participate with the experts on Systems and Recording
Administration on the procidures and juridical rules deriving
therefrom;
-    Elaborate the draft bill to be integrated in the general text.
4.3  E?Mert in Administration of Public Rexistries
-    Analyze the rresent system;
-    Study the procedures deriving from the legal proposals;
-    Elaborate an instruction manual with the steps to be implemented
for the creation, handling and maintenance of the files;
-    Schedule of tasks and costs for each input;
-    Implement and test a prototype system.
4.4 Exgert invSyatems. Cadaster and Title Recordin2
-    Evaluate the proposals to organize the Register Office;
-    Design the necessary equipment and data base that it would be
required;
-    Estimate the operational costs and inputs;
-    Cooperate in the implementation and test of the prototype system.
4.5 Studv Coordinator



-  100  -                       ANNEX 10.2
The institutional relations of the participating powers;
Supervise the tasks of each expert and verify the acceptan6e of the
work by the three powers;
Elaborate in detail the terms of reference of the consultants;
Participate in the preliminary drafts for legislative reform and in
the system design.



- 101 -
ANNEX 10. 3
PARAGui.Y
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Studies Component: Terms of Referenge
Studv 3 PoLcy Affectingx Land Use
1.        Analytical studies to formulate a strategy to promote the
application of economic (and other) policies, in conformity with the criteria
of "ordenamiento territorial" i.e., natural resource management and
environmental protection.
2.        These studies will include:  (i)  evaluation of socio-economic
development programs with direct or indirect impact on the use of natural
resources, including promotion of settlement and consolidation of colonies in
appropriate areas; (ii) rural roads; (iii) directed agricultural credit; and
(iv) protection of indigenous communities.
3.        To a considerable degree, these programs can be re-oriented
(without necessarily changing the legal framework of the implementing
agencies) for example, in ensuring that settlement only takes place in areas
appropriate for agriculture and not in still-forested areas, and the cessation
of credit for land clearing in areas to be left under forest. The SSRNNA will
formulate recommendations to make changes to programs in collaboration with
relevant government entities.



- 102 -
ANNEX 10.4
PARAGUAY
LANDUSE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Studies Component : Terms of Reforac
Study 4: Legal Framework and the Environment
1.          Studies for the revision of the legal framework of "ordnaiento
territorial" and other environmental issues.
2.          The studies will include the review of the legal framework to
formulate draft laws to promote "ordenamiento terrirgtial" and environmental
protection. The studies will includes
(i)   legal advice in the areas falling directly under the jurisdiction
of SSRNMA, such as Ley 422 'the Forestry Law) and its regulation,
the draft law for protection of wildlife, the draft legislation
for the establishment and management of national parks and other
protected areas, and the draft fisheries law;
(ii)  initiating work to introduce an "environmental code" and
corresponding regulations for the evaluation of environmental
aspects of investment projects;
(iii) revision of the "c6digo sanitario" and its regulations, to define
the limits of authority of the respective regulatory bodies;
(iv)  identification of shortcomings and inconsistencies in the
legislation and in the structures of controls and penalties, and
preparation of draft legislation to guide policy in forestry,
environment and rational land use. The DMA will also produce
draft regulations for its own area of influence.
(v)   With respect to "ordenamiento territorial" the possibility of
applying legal incentives and penalties and other controls to
differentiate between zones and "ordenamiento territorial" e.g.,
land tax and fiscal incentives.



-  103  -                       ANNEX 10.5
~AMGUAY
LAND USE RATINA IZATION PROJECT
Studies Comoonents Terms of Reference
StudyL 5: IndiMar no Peonle and Natural Resources Manaaement
1.    jectivea of the Study
The study is directed at three main areas: (a) the establishment of
a legal and institutional framework that would allow the indigenous people of
Paraguay to benefit from and directly participate in the management of
conservation areas; (b) consideration of and proposals for legal and
institutional measures that would encourage the sustainable management of
natural resources on lands belonging to indigenous peoples; and (c)
development of proposals to document and, where possible, to benefit from the
indigenous p6oples' knowledge of the natural environment.
At present those indigenous communities that have land titles are
restricted to areis which are not large enough to allow them to subsist on the
basis of hunting, gathering and slash and burn agriculture. The indigenous
communities are vulnerable to outside pressures and their lands are
increasingly being deforested in order to provide a cash income. Moreover,
although it is generally recognized that the indigenous people have a unique
understanding and respect for the natural environment, their knowledge has not
been used in any systematic way, nor have they been directly involved in the
conservation of natural resources.
2.   The Stsiv
The study will include:
(a) The analysis of the existing legal and institutional framework
for the management of conservation areas (National Parks,
Nature Reserves, etc.), and the development of proposals to
allow the indigenous people access to these areas and use of
their resources in ways which would be compatible with their
designation. The proposal would also identify any legal or
institutional changes that might be needed to allow indigenous
peoples to take an active part in the management of
conservation areas.
(b) The preparation of a database on indigenous lands (including
those with provisional titles or titles held in trust). This
would be an update of the information in the Annex of the 1981



-  104  -                       ANNEX 10.5
Indian Census and Chase-Sardi et al. 1991X/ and would include
information on population, the lebal status of the title,
whether the community has legal personality and information of
the groups working with the community. This information would
eventually be cross-checked with information provided through
the cadastre and GIS studies.
(c) A study of the legal measures that could be taken to protect
the natural resources belonging to indigenous communities (ie:
possible modifications to Law 904/81, discussion of the role
of INDI and SNF in providing permits to cut timber, etc.).
(d) Elaboration of a programme to encourage the sustainable use of
natural resources through improved agricultural technology,
the diversification of crops and livestock, and the
development of sustainable forestry.
(e) Elaboration of a programme for the participation of indigenous
peoples in the management of conservation areas, with
particular reference to Parque Caaguazu and the National Parks
or Conservation Areas that would bze established under the
Regional Agricultural Development Project under preparation
(San Rafael/Yuqueri; Itakyry/Cuenca del Acaray); also the
Hbaracayu Reserve if it is not developed as an independent GEF
project. This would include the definition of institutional
arrangements and requirements for training of indigenous and
other staff.
(f) Elaboration of a programme to document indigenous knowledge of
the natural environment; this would include the collection of
crop varieties; information on crop management; ethnobotany
and ethnozoology. This might be carried out through the
biological inventory or CDC.
1J   "Situacl6n Socioc'ltural Econ6mica, Juridico-Politica Actual de las Comunidades Indigenas
en el Paraguay", Miguel Chase-Sardi; Augusto Brun; Niguel Angel Enciso.



-  105  -                      ANNEX 11
PARAGUAY
LAkND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Miniastry of Azriculture - Outline of ,Aricultural Poliev
1.    Introduction
Three main groups of producers: large commercial, peasant (small and
medium scale producers), and newly-settled. The third group needs strong
support to improve its living standards.
HAG proposes a differentiated policy; the main aim of the document is to
define the strategy and policy towards the peasant sector, without ignoring
the other sectors.
Agricultural policy alone will not achieve the objectives. It must be
articulated with other global and sectoral policies; agro-industry, in
particular, is important, without which agrarian reform and rural development
will only achieve partial success.
2.    Bases
2.1   Complex set of problems and needs, with many factors in play beginning
with structural problems which began long ago. Important international
dimension. GOP is committed to transform its economic structure and social
structure.
2.2  Democratic transition has allowed the population to interpret the
problem in three ways: (a) the reality is now clearer; (b) there are demands
for a more open and equitable society; and (c) the present inertia of the
status quo must be changed by a will to transform.
2.3   The agrarian problem is one of the most complex and difficult that the
country faces. Agriculture is the central pillar of the economy: (a) 952 of
exports (soya and cotton - 66%); (b) peasant sector plays a big role (c) food
needs are met by peasant agriculture, but this has weakened in recent years;
(d) 50% of the economically-active (i.e., employed) population is in
agriculture.
2.4   The agrarian problem has the following key aspects:  (a) even though
peasant agriculture plays a big role in the volume of exports, it retains very
little of the surplus; (b) 250,000 peasant families have an output too small
to allow capital accumulation and economic growth; (c) land ownership is very
skewed and concentrated which, with low level of demand for labor in non-
agricultural sectors makes access to land for the land-less fundamental;
(d) the Paraguayan economy is vulnerable because of the small domestic market
and dependonce on two export products; (e) the availability of state-provided
services, such as credit and technical assistance, is reduced: large
proportion of peasant holdings depends on informal credit which, in turn,



-  106  -                       ANNEX 11
leaves the recipient in a poor negotiating position with respect to product
m4rketing (f) the peasantry has not reached a proper level of organization to
meet its own interests, becauee of the previous system of government; and (g)
the deterioration of natural reoources, especially evident in soil
degradation, sedimentation and contamination of water courses, and accelerated
deforestation with consequent loss of biodiversity.
Faced with these circumstances, a leading government role will be
fundamental to solving the problems. Public expenditure must be used to
strengthen the financial requirements of those institutions dedicated to rural
development.
3.    Differentiated Po1jcy
The proposal of differentiated agrarian policy is based on the priority
objective of promoting the development of the peasant sector in the national
economy. Those actions directed towards the modern agricultural and forestry
sectors will be maintained. The emphasis given in this proposal is based on
the difficult situation of the peasant sector.
4.    Prioritq, Measures
(a) Agrarian Reform. The following initiatives will be immediately adopted:
(i)   obtain sufficient land to settle, up to 1993, around 40,000
landless peasant families; this program will be designed and
implemented by the relevant institutions, following the objectives
and methodology proposed in these outlines of agrarian policy;
(ii) promote the revision of the Agrarian Law; this will take into
account the initiatives of reform being considered by Parliament,
and key aspects of agrarian legislation will be redefined,
including beneficiaries of agrarian reform, rational land use and
expropriation procedures, all within constitutional rights which
respect private property;
(iii) implement a program of clearing-up land holding and titles. IBR
will publicize, within six months, the bases of the program; and
(iv) proceed with the emergency plan of actions for new settlements
under the coordination of the Consejo de Desarrollo Rural (CDR).
(b)   Aericulture.  Production policy will have the following objectives:
(i)   guarantee food security;
(ii) diversify output for export;
(iii) improve peasant agriculture; and



-  107  -                       ANNEX 11
(iv) promote relationships between agriculture and the rest of the
economy, especially agro-industry.
(c)   Livestock.
(i)   promotion of livestock production in peasant holdings, through
specific SEAG programs;
(ii)  at the level of policy to medium and large-scale producers:
-  research and extension to inirease productivity;
- strengthening of sanitary controls in order to meet the demands
of domestic and foreign markets.
(d)   Forestry and the Environment.  Preservation of natural resources and the
environment, and the achievement of sustainable economic and social
development, is a priority objective for HAG. The SSRNMA will continue
with the studies necessary to formulate short, medium, and long-term
policies.
ii)   analysis of resources and formulation of a plan of "ordenamiento
territorial";
(ii)  implement programs of resource conservation;
(ii4) implement programs to promote rational use and "enrichment" of
forestry resources;
(iv)  assist with the prevention of pollution and other environmental
degradation;
(v)   design and propose changes in legislation; and
(vi)  promote environmental awareness.
(e)   Agricultural Credit.  MAG considers the reorientation of credit policy
towards the peasant sector to be of fundamental importance, with three main
objectives:
(i)   an increase in coverage;
(ii)  improve access and reduce (transaction) costs;
(iii) ensure adequate and timely availability of credit.
A study is being carried out, with the cooperation of the Camara de Diputados
and IFAD. These will be complete in the first half of 1991, and the new
organization should be operating in 1992.
(f)   Narketing



-  108  -                       ANNEX ll
(1)   organize the institutional structure (where?) to assume the
functions defined for both the general and the differentiated
policy;
(ii)  provide information and technical assistance to firms,
cooperatives and peasant organizations;
(iii) establish a technical body to study the opportunities presented by
overseas markets; close cooperation will be establish with MIC and
MRE, as well as private bodies; and
(iv)  propose alternatives for a new administration for MAG's silos, or
failing that their privatization;
(g)   Promotion of the Peasant Sector.  The promotion of peasant organizations
will be a priority measure, and the following will be developed:
(i)   SEAG and DGC will produce a special program to be ready before
April 1991;
(ii)  SEAG will reorganize its services, and implement a system of
participatory planning with the peasant sector, in order to
involve them in development programs in 1991; and
(iii) peasant organizations will be promoted, dedicated to agriculture
and forestry, in order to complement primary production with agro-
industry.
(h)   Technology and Education
(i)   Research
The specialized research bodies will revise their present research
plans and projects in the first half of 1991. The differentiated
policy approach embodied in these outlines will be taken into
account in this redefinition. The environmental and ecological
aspects of technological advances will be carefully considered.
The specialized research bodies will establish the necessary
contacts and cooperation with SEAG and SSRNMA as well as with
universities, agricultural schools and NGOs.
(ii)  Extension
SEAG will strengthen its system of technology transfer and
extension. In its different areas of action, it will promote its
actions considering the needs of the existing levels of peasant
producers, using methods appropriate to their resources and
abilities, and with their participation. SEAG will maintain close
contact and communication with other public bodies, cooperatives,
peasant organizations and NGOs.



-  109  -                      ANNEX 11
(iii) Educatio
The curriculae of different levels of agricultural. education will
be brought up-to-date. The technical infrastructure will be
strengthened for short courses in market gardening, mechanization
and agro-industry.
5.    Institutional Reoreanization/Restructuring
Faced with these needs and challenges, MAG considers as essential its
institutional restructuring which will allow it to use new means and abilities
to discharge its responsibilities. The priorities are:
(i)   the formulation of a global plan to restructure MAG, including a
new Organic Law, which will be based on operational
decentralization;
(ii)  stimulate and accompany initiatives already in effect in some
dependencies of HAG (e.g., CAH and IBR);
(iii) put into effect a communications system to articulate and
complement the different efforts made in the sector (involving
organizations of both the public and private sectors, Parliament,
NGOs) at the level of the CDR.



-  110  -                      ANNEX 12
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Abbreviations
ATAP        Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Kenya)
BCP         Central Bank
(Banco Central del Paraguay)
BNF         National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Fomento)
CAH         Smallholder Credit Bank
(Cr6dito Agricola de Habilitaci6n)
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CPA         Critical Path Analysis
CSJ         Supreme Court
(Corte Suprema de Justicia)
DAG         Surveying and Geodetic Department
(Departamento de Agrimensura y Geodesia/MOPC)
DC          Cadastral Directorate
(Direcci6n de Catastro/MH)
DCE         Directorate of Census and Statistics
(Direcci6n de Censo y Estadisticas Agropecuarias/MAG)
DGR         General Directorate of Tax Collectior
(Direcci6n General de Recaudaci6n/MH)
DGRP        General Directorate of the Property Register
(Direcci6n General de Registros P6iblicos/CSJ)
DMA         Directorate of the Environment
(Direcci6n del Medio Ambiente/SSRNMA)
DMA         Defense Mapping Agency
DRP         Directorate of Forest Resources
(Direcci6n de Recursos Forestales/SSRNMA)



-  111  -                      ANNEX 12
DSGH        Directorate of the Military Geographic Service
(Direcci6n del Servicio Geogr&fico Nilitar)
EMBRAPA     Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
(Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria)
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
ETAP        Environmental Technical Assistance Project
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP      FAO - World Bank Cooperative Program
FG          Livestock Fund
(Fondo Ganadero)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GI$         Geographic Information System
GOP         Government of Paraguay
GPS         Global Positioning System
GT/MAG      Technical Department, MAG
(Gabinete T6cnico/MAG)
IAGS        Inter-American Geodetic Survey/DMA
IBR         Rural Welfare Institute
(Instituto de Bienestar Rural)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
II          Real Estate Tax
(Impuesto Inmobiliario)
IS          Inertial Systems
JGF         Japanese Grant Facility
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIPR        Rural Property Index
(Libro Indice de Propiedades Rurales)



-  112  -                       ANNEX 12
LPP         Provisional Parcel File
(Legajo Parcelario Provisorio)
MAG         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia)
MJT         Ministry of Justice and Labor
(Ministerio de Justicia y Trabajo)
MR          Ministry of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
mOPC        Ministry of Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras Poblicas y Comunicaciones)
NAVSAT      Navy Navigational Satellite System
NGS         U.S. National Geodetic Survey
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
ONCAP       National Office for Project Coordination and Administration
(Oficina Nacional de Coordinaci6n y Administraci6n de Proyectos)
PAIGH       Pan-American Institute for Geography and History
PC          Real Estate Taxpayer Listing
(Padr6n de Contribuyentes del Impuesto Inmobiliario)
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
RA          Agrarian Property Register (Registro Agrario)
RPI         Property Register
(Registro de la Propiedad Inmueble/CSJ)
RUC         Single Register of Taxpayers
(Registro Unico de Contribuyentes)
SNC         National Cadastral Service
(Servicio Nacional de Catastro)
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SST         Sub-Secretariat for Taxation
(Sub-Secretaria de Estado de Tributaci6n/MH)



-  113  -                      ANNEX 12
SSRNMHA     Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
(Sub-Secretaria de Estado de Recursos Naturales y Medio
Ambiente/MAG)
TC          Audit Board
(Tribunal de Cuentas)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
USDA        United States Department of Agriculture
UTAP        Project Coordination and Management Unit
(Unidad T6wnic.a de Apoyo al Proyecto)
WGS         World Geodetic Spheroid



ST6               hSI                 v9                  5S                     I               sr                  s                 .
B O           L I V I                                                             /
I                              |                                      \ / I'AAA EIR I C AI'.
2V  .t5IIGMVEO        () C  H    A    C   O  0/,                                                                                        (    NsA,t.
V/sA    W   TL(GasN 0 G fo W1K vv sy                              jt 
i   \                        \    -             ~~~~~~~~~~A L T 0 
j$5"verwils \                                 I           PA  R A G U  A Y
It   NUVA   ASUNCION                                      AI                        4                B   R   A   Z   I  L
j/o DS.IA_~Ifra.rT,DS
t;;--i:;   W\E    S      /                           R   NIV            7~1
R  E G T  O   N                                                  I
U]  0A     B O  Q  U E R O N               /F.
Zr  'Ax                                          \                               4 CONCEPCION  e                \          /
27r    79,lK t C  H  A IC                                                              <             g             )                                     2
C~~--                                  2
I D e NT E           A      rY E   -
24*            t/   ~ >                      $  PRSILDENTE                     HAYES            EC    A   o . , , 
N>                           <                 t. SAN PEDRO                 CANINDEYU                (
S9F>iaGEX~                                                             TV IW /N--CL
PARAGUAY                                              ASC                           / CA   UAZUy4?
-  BITUMINO  SURFACEDSROVESD                                                                                         R OA .DS
'TUMNlOUS SURiFACED ROADS UNDER CONSTUCTCON
-   GRAVEL / EARTH SURFACED TOADS                                                                  A ,        (               \
RAILWAYS
20                      - --    RIVERS                                                                                                                           W.
-@  CCRINTRY REGION DiNSM                       ~p P RAGUARII
DEPARTRENT BOIUNDARIES                                                                     REAZ
.-.NTINATBONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         /AAZAPA               O 
27 : o i e 120  1                      KI 9 SSAYEF
PS              67        ' 5 (   Ar                 S                  r  A   S;r          e                                     YA7-



lBow 25436
|...........RA BOL I  IA
AREA
OF MAP
O    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS~I~4L
AROENTINA
t~~t'W=*Si;  g                              "W"                  g~~~~~~~ R A Z I L
on 1 lopl 37cny xmlofyor nAme~~~~Cncopdo en$
colSalt DI Guaird
24-
PARAGUAY                               AUNC16N
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY AND ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY:
F~"~~11:60,000 FOR ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING
M3 AT 1:25,000
1.20,00 FOLR ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING OF
m7m___  1SML HoLDER PARCELS AT 1:5,000
Z9=P     RIVERS
-~ SELECTED ROADS
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                              Ecm
NATIONAL CAPITALARGENTINA2a
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESARGENTINA
0    40    s0   120   160
62'                       do,                                                     4
DECEM0E9 1991



