Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22488
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(34450)
ONNA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3445-PA)
June 25, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit: Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal and Completion)
Currency Unit = Guarani (G.)
Rate at Appraisal: G.1,400 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = G.3,500 Rate at Completion
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BID           Inter-American Development Bank
DGRP          Public Registry (Direcci6n General de Registros PuTblicos)
DMA           Defense Mapping Agency (later the National Imagery and Mapping Agency - NIMA)
DOAIMAG    Department of Agro-Ecological Planning (Departamento de Ordenamiento Territorial)
of the Ministry of Agriculture
DSGM          Military Geographic Service (Direcci6n del Servicio Geografico Militar)
ESW           Economic and Sector Work
ETAP          Environmental Technical Assistance Project
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOP           Government of Paraguay
GPS           Global Positioning System
GT/MAG        Technical Department (Gabinete Tecnico), later the Planning Directorate
(Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n - DGP), of the Ministry of Agriculture
IAGS          Inter-American Geodetic Survey
IBR          Rural Welfare Institute (Instituto de Bienestar Rural)
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
MAG           Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia)
MIH           Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda)
PROMODAF  Agricultural Modernization Program (Programa de Modern izaci6n y Desarrollo
Agropecuario y Forestal)
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SICAT         Cadastral Information System (Sistema de Informaci6n Catastral)
SNC          National Cadastral Service (Servicio Nacional de Catastro)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UTAP          Technical Support Unit (Unidad Tecnica de Apoyo al Proyecto)
WGS           World Geodetic Spheroid
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Steven Oliver



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34450)
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3445-PA)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainabihty                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                19
9. Partner Comments                                                               20
10. Additional Information                                                        20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              25
-Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             29
Annex 8. Comments on the Land Use Rationalization Project                         31






Project ID: P007911                                        Project Name: LAND USE RATIONLZTN
Team Leader: Steven William Oliver                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: LAND USE RATIONLZTN                             L/C/TF Number: 34450
Country/lDepartment: PARAGUAY                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/2011990                               Effective: 07/28/1992         05/14/1993
Appraisal:  04/15/1991                                MTR: 11/15/1997             10/01/1997
Approval:  03/17/1992                               Closing:  12/31/1998         06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  The Governmnent of Paraguay/The Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda -
Servicio Nacional de Catastro) and the Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de
Agricultura y Ganaderia - Departamento de Ordenamiento Ambiental and
Direccion General de Planificacion)
Other Partners:  The Defence Mapping Agency/Inter-American Geodetic Survey (now the
National Imagery and Mapping Agency) of the US Govermnent
The Govermnent of Japan (PHRD Grant)
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Fer-anti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:      Myrna Alexander                           Ping-Cheung Loh (Department Director)
Sector Manager:       Laura Tlaiye                               Mark D. Wilson (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:   Steven Oliver                             Steven Oliver
ICR Primary Author:   Steven Oliver
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The project's objectives were: (a) to improve the Government's information base, as a means of
raising its effectiveness in: (i) land titling; (ii) the long-term planning of natural resource management;
(iii) the provision of services to agriculture; and (iv) raising fiscal revenue from the agricultural sector; and
(b) to provide a basis for strengthening the institutions responsible for land settlement and for natural
resource management and protection. The project was intended to be part of a phased strategy to
strengthen basic agricultural services in Paraguay.
3.1.2  The objectives were not clearly stated, and would have been better expressed in more specific
terms, as the project's design allowed. Thus, the first objective ("to improve the Government's information
base, ...") would have been clearer if it had simply described the creation of a multipurpose rural cadaster
covering the Eastern Region of Paraguay and part of the lower Chaco. Simnilarly, the second objective ("to
provide a basis for strengthening the institutions ...") should have specified the creation of a Geographic
Information System for the Eastern Region. Stated in this way, the objectives would have been clear and
measurable.
3.1.3   As an additional complication, the statement of objectives included what were, in fact, a partial list
of the "goals" to be pursued once the objectives themselves were achieved; these goals were not part of the
objectives, but rather belonged to the "phased strategy" mentioned in the statement of objectives which
implied (accurately) that further projects were anticipated by the Bank to follow this one. As a result, the
statement of the project's objectives, as it appeared in the Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement,
made the objectives appear to be both more complex and less concrete than they actually were.
3.1.4  The objectives were not fully realistic, because the time-frame allowed for the creation of the
cadaster was too short. With the benefit of hindsight, it can be appreciated that the project's anticipated
time-frame (of a little over five years) was far too short, given that the project's activities had to proceed in
a specified sequence, each building on its predecessor, with little opportunity for recovering lost time; it
was implicitly assumed that the required technical assistance could be put in place quickly and efficiently,
and that sequential major works contracts would be procured and implemented in short (even optimum)
periods of time. This quickly proved to be highly over-optimistic. Delays, when they occurred, in
procurement and implementation, particularly of the major contracts, dealt serious blows to the ability of
the implementing agencies to adhere to the Implementation Program specified in the Loan Agreement.
However, the objectives were (and remain) important, both for the country as a whole and for the rural
sector in particular. The creation of the cadaster is a fundamental requirement for rural development in
Paraguay, and many of the present problems in the rural areas, where close to half the population resides
and where most of the poverty is concentrated, can be traced directly or indirectly to the absence of a
proper system of land administration.
3.1.5  The project was demanding for the main implementing agency, the National Cadastral Service
(Servicio Nacional de Catastro - SNC) of the Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda - MH), but
relatively undemanding for the subsidiary implementing agencies, the Department of Agro-ecological
Planning (Departamento de Ordenamiento Ambiental - DOA) and the Technical Department (Gabinete
Trcnico - GT), both of which are within the Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura y
Ganaderia - MAG). It was not a complex project in terms of its structure, but the contents of the
principal components were technically complex. Some of the risks foreseen at appraisal materialized in
- 2 -



practice, but the potential problem of institutional weakness was not fully identified or appreciated; in large
part, the history of the project was one of a continuing effort by the Bank and the Borrower to resolve the
series of problems, and occasional crisis, that arose from institutional weaknesses. The project was highly
responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and development priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  The original objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The three components of the project as defined in the SAR were as follows. The projected costs
included price and physical contingency provisions.
Component A: the creation of a complete, multipurpose rural cadaster for the Eastern Region and part of
the Western Region (the Chaco) of Paraguay covering 17.0 million ha of land (the project area), at an
estimated cost of US$38.3 million, including:
- the establishment of a new geodetic control network for the whole of Paraguay, with a new datum
(WGS84);
- the acquisition of: (i) complete aerial photography cover at a scale of 1:75,000 for the whole of the
project area; and (ii) partial cover at a scale of 1:25,000 in the more intensively-farmed and heavily-settled
areas (where small parcels predominate);
- the preparation of orthophoto maps, including complete coverage of the project area at a scale of
1:25,000 and partial cover at 1:5,000 of the more intensively-farmed areas:
- the collection and analysis of all existing land-related information, followed by cadastral surveying and
data collection in the field; and
- the development of a computerized cadastral data-base integrating alpha-numeric and graphic
information sources.
Component B: the creation of an agricultural/natural resource Geographic Information System (GIS) for
the Eastern Region as the basis of an economic land-use classification system (Plan de Ordenamiento
Territorial), at an estimated cost of US$2.1 million, including:
- a reconnaissance-level soil survey of the whole of the Eastern Region;
- semi-detailed soil surveys in selected areas of good soils;
- the preparation of soils and related thematic mapping (including natural vegetation, and actual and
appropriate land use);
- the acquisition of computer hardware and software, and the integration of data; and
- associated legal and policy studies.
Component C: a program of studies concerning land titling and aspects of the agricultural sector and
natural resource management, at an estimated cost of US$600,000.
3.3.2  The components were specifically related to the achievement of the objectives. The achievement
of the physical objectives of the project (the rural cadaster and the GIS) are necessary but not sufficient
conditions for the achievement of the subsequent goals (improvements in land titling, resource management
planning, services, fiscal revenues, and institutional performance). This distinction was not drawn in the
SAR, where the impression is given that achievement of these goals would follow on directly from the
achievement of the objectives. (The analysis of the Logical Framework, not then in general use in the
- 3 -



Banks work, would have indicated the eventual obstacles to be expected, for example, in raising fiscal
revenues from the agricultural sector and in promoting inter-institutional relationships.) In the case of the
cadastral component, the design was reasonably related to the capacity of the implementing agency at that
time; however, the SNC did not develop as it was expected to do and it suffered from a series of political
interferences. The project's design attempted to avoid a major expansion of the SNC and provided for the
establishment of the Project Technical Support Unit (Unidad Tecnica de Apoyo al Proyecto - UTAP) to
channel the necessary technical assistance, but in practice the UTAP was never able to function fully as it
was designed. There was resistance particularly in the parent MH to the hiring of a sufficient number of
consultants, principally because much of the require expertise was available only internationally and,
consequently, at a relatively high cost. In the cases of the GIS and the studies components, the design was
well related to the capacity of the implementing agencies.
3.3.3 The design of the project attempted to take into account the most important lessons learned from
earlier projects in Paraguay and in this sector in other countries. It emphasized: (a) the need to counter
institutional weakness (if not achieving institutional strengthening) with management links to a services
supplier (in this case, the United Nations Development Program - UNDP - in Paraguay); and (b) the need
for a radically-altered strategy concerning natural resource management and the environment, given that
Paraguay has reached the geographic limits of agricultural expansion and must now achieve a balance
between an intensification in production and the sustainable use of natural resources.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   The components were not revised during project implementation. As described in Section 4, the
area subjected to cadastral survey and data collection was significantly reduced, and modifications were
made in the study topics as circumstances changed.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   The project's design and appraisal predate the introduction of the Quality Assurance (QAG)
process at the Bank. In general terms, the project responded to the Government's need for the basic data
and information necessary to allow it to play a more effective role in the agricultural sector and to collect
fiscal revenues from it. The project was the direct initial result of the dialogue between the Government
and the Bank, which had been renewed in late-1989, on the subject of natural resource management and the
environment; this emphasized the need for the adoption of a radically-altered strategy aimed at sustainable
agricultural development.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   The two objectives of the project were: (a) to imnprove the government's information base (i.e., the
rural cadaster), to help increase its effectiveness in the provision of land-related services; and (b) to provide
a basis (i.e., the GIS) for strengthening the institutions responsible for land settlement, mainly the Rural
'Welfare Institute (Instituto de Bienestar Rural - IBR), and for natural resource management, mainly the
MAG. The project's outcome is judged to have been "satisfactory". Under the project, the GIS covering
the whole of the Eastern Region was fully completed, and the technical basis for the cadaster (the geodetic
control network, the acquisition of aerial photography, the preparation of the orthophoto map base, the
systematization of existing data, the computerized cadastral information system, etc.) was established for
- 4 -



the whole project area. Because of the cumulative delays experienced in project implementation and the
significant under-estimate of the budget costs for cadastral surveying, the cadastral survey was able to
cover only the Department of Itapiua and part of the Department of Alto Parana, an area of 2.4 million ha
(approximately 14% of the whole project area). The cost estimates for cadastral surveying were made by
consultants and-accepted by the government in good faith; the fact that they were significantly
under-estimated did not become evident until late in the project's implementation period, when they were
revealed through the process of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and were beyond the
government's control. In retrospect, the project can be seen to have been somewhat over-ambitious, not in
terms of its physical objectives but in terms of the time-frame anticipated for its completion. In falling
short of the mark in terms of the area of the cadastral survey, the project succeeded in creating a modem
map base for Paraguay, and in carrying out the first comprehensive soil surveys and land use mapping; in
addition, it created the cadastral information system, modernized the facilities of the SNC, the DOA and the
DSGM, and paved the way for the remaining cadastral survey.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  The objectives of the project were in the category of physical objectives, and there were no
objectives in the categories of macro-economic or sectoral policy, financial results or institutional
development. The achievement of the first objective was satisfactory, in spite of the reduced geographical
coverage achieved in the cadastral survey compared with the design. The achievement of the second
objective was highly satisfactory; the GIS was installed and the basic levels of information were prepared
to a high standard.
4.2.2  The design of the project was appropriate for the achievement of the objectives, but the anticipated
time-frame proved to be too short. The performance indicators for judging the achievement of the
objectives were well quantified, because they relate to the physical completion of the cadastral and GIS
data bases and the aerial photography, mapping and surveying that underpin them.
Component A: The Establishment of a Multipurpose Rural Cadaster
4.2.3   When the project began, Paraguay did not have a complete map base (even at a scale of 1: 100,000)
for the Eastem Region or the Chaco. Accordingly, the first requirement of the project was to create the
map base at the scales necessary for cadastral survey. Two basic design decisions were taken during
project preparation. The first was to utilize photo-based maps, because of their advantages in
interpretation when dealing with illiterate or poorly-educated small farmers; the second was to create
orthophoto maps that would serve the purposes of all map users, rather than a product that might have been
easier and cheaper to obtain but of use only for cadastral purposes (e.g., a controlled photo-mosaic).
(N.B. An orthophoto map is produced from over-lapping aerial photographs and is an adjusted and
rectified product that has all of the properties and accuracy of a conventional topographic map. Its visible
features are photographic, rather than being depicted as symbols).
4.2.4  As a result, the project:
(a) installed a new, advanced and highly-accurate geodetic control network of first-order points covering
the whole of Paraguay, and modernized the datum to bring it into line with Brazil and Argentina;
(b) acquired high-quality aerial photography at scales of: (i) 1:75,000 for the whole of the Eastern Region
and part of the Chaco (the project area); and (ii) 1:25,000 for the more densely-populated areas;
- 5 -



(c) developed a digital orthophoto map base for the whole of the project area at a scale of 1:25,000 (with
additional coverage at a scale of 1:5,000 in the areas of densely-farmed land and relatively small parcels):
the digital terrain model for this map base introduced the most advanced geoide available from the
Inter-American Geodetic Survey (IAGS); and
(d) developed the computerized system necessary to store, manipulate and print the digital map base.
Copies of the map base are held at the SNC and the Military Geographic Service (Direcci6n del Servicio
Geograflco Militar - DSGM).
4.2.5  Paraguay now has a modem map base for the whole of the project area (the printed version of
which extends to almost 5,000 sheets and which is also stored digitally on 1,300 CD-ROMs); it is among
the best in the Western Hemisphere and is already being used for multiple purposes beyond the project,
including road design, farm planning, estimation of areas to be inundated behind dams, etc. Copies of the
orthophoto maps are now being sold to the general public by the SNC. As part of this process, a
laboratory was established at the DSGM for the processing of aerial photography, including the
development and printing of large-format film, reproduction of the hard copies of the maps, and the
analytical plotting of stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs with technically-advanced equipment. The
DSGM was also provided with environmentally-controlled storage for aerial photographs and maps, and
advanced Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers and other surveying equipment. The output of this
sub-component was highly satisfactory.
4.2.6  The geodetic control network was put in place by a team from the Defense Mapping Agency
(Geodesy and Geophysics Department, Geodetic Survey Division), under a program of bilateral aid
provided by the US government; in this, it worked closely with the DSGM which provided logistical
support. This survey was carried out under difficult weather conditions that made travel to the remote
parts of Paraguay an occasionally hazardous undertaking. The resulting control network of first-order
points is extremely accurate, and served as the basis for the later episodes of densification of control points
carried out in conjunction with both the acquisition of aerial photography and the preparation of maps. A
detailed technical description of the work done in establishing the new geodetic control network is given in
Document #7 of Annex 7.
4.2.7  The acquisition of aerial photography was made under one contract awarded via ICB for works,
following pre-qualification. There were significant delays, which totaled almost one year, in the
procurement process because of disagreements between the government and the Bank on procurement
procedures. Once the contract was awarded, the firm involved was able to mobilize quickly and begin
work. Weather-related delays are inevitable in the acquisition of aerial photography, and with the work
about 50% completed the number of "lost" days being experienced required that the contractor removed the
aircraft for work elsewhere, remobilizing in Paraguay once the weather had improved and the number of
cloud-free days allowed efficient use of the aircraft. The technical specifications for the equipment
(aircraft and cameras) and products were demanding, and the products delivered were of a high quality.
Some delays were experienced in their delivery, mainly caused by the non-availability of the aerial
photography laboratory at the appropriate time, with the consequent need to send all exposed film overseas
for processing. The quality control of the products of this contract was carried out by the UTAP; the
internationally-recruited technical staff of the UTAP trained local staff in this function in a short space of
time.
-6 -



4.2.8  The production of the orthophoto maps was also made under one contract via ICB for works,
with pre-qualification (although the bidding document, which divided the project area into a number of
blocks, allowed for the possibility of more than one firm to win contracts). The project's original design
had specified conventional orthophoto maps, to be digitized later for inclusion in the graphic data-base once
property boundary information, etc. had been added following cadastral survey. With the rapid advances
being made in technology, it was decided to take advantage by producing digital orthophoto maps which
were fast becoming the industry standard. Quality control of the maps and related products was entrusted
to a specialized, internationally-selected consulting firm; this had not been included in the design of the
project, because it had been anticipated that the UTAP would have the capacity, in terms of long-term and
short-term staff, to carry out the task, which proved not to be the case. There were considerable delays in
the implementation of the mapping contract, and the early map products were not of an acceptable quality,
in many cases containing serious errors and deficiencies. Rigorous quality control to a high technical
standard eventually resulted in the delivery of orthophoto map products, in both digital and hard copy
formats, of an acceptable quality.
4.2.9  The cadastral survey foreseen in the project's design was intended to cover the whole project area
of 17.0 million ha and was expected to commence once the map base was ready. Although it had not been
provided for in the project's design, the concept of a "pilot" cadastral survey was introduced during
implementation by the UTAP as a way of validating its proposed modus operandi under the specific
conditions of Paraguay before embarking on survey work on a massive scale. The initial extension of the
Loan's Closing Date from December 31, 1998 until December 31, 1999 was made to accommodate the
pilot cadastral survey. It was expected that the pilot survey would cover about 750,000 ha. As it became
clear that neither the time available nor the remaining funding would allow the full cadastral survey to be
completed, the SNC proposed (and the Bank accepted) that the "pilot" survey should be expanded to a size
that it felt could be accomplished within the remaining resources of time and funding.
4.2.10 The contract for the pilot survey was awarded via ICB for works. It covered 2.4 million ha (the
whole of the Department of Itapiua and the south of the Department of Alto Parana) and was accompanied
by the creation of a Cadastral Information System (Sistema de Informaci6n Catastral - SICAT) with the
hard-ware and soft-ware necessary to integrate and process the alpha-numeric and graphic data-bases; the
capacity of the SICAT is sufficient to include the whole of the project area. The area for the pilot
cadastral survey, which covered 41 Districts (each the territory of a municipalidad), was selected because
it is intensively farmed and generally of high-quality soils, and it is one of the most recently settled parts of
Paraguay. Quality control was once more undertaken by a specialized firm selected internationally, which
had a technically-strong local partner.
4.2.11  Significant delays were experienced in the compilation and computerized sorting of existing
information which formed the point of departure for the actual survey. The process of cadastral surveying
itself was also significantly delayed; the contractor responsible made a slow start, despite the extremely
short time period imposed in the contract. The early products of the survey were of an unacceptably-low
quality and failed to meet the requirements of the technical specification by a wide margin; there was a
strong indication that the contractor was "learning by doing" in the early part of the work. Because the
quality control was carried out on the basis of statistical sampling, with the results for the District as a
whole being either accepted or rejected, much of the survey work had to be completely re-done for whole
Districts. This generated significant delays in the implementation of the contract which, in turn, required a
further extension in the Loan's Closing Date until June 30, 2000. The products of the cadastral survey
were finally certified as meeting the technical specification, and the data were fully loaded into the SICAT.
The property listings from the cadastral data base are being made available to the municipalities which,
- 7-



since the constitutional reform of the early 1990s, are responsible for invoicing and collecting the rural real
estate tax (the Impuesto Inmobiliario Rural - IIR).
Component B:- The Creation of a Geographic Information System (GIS)
4.2.12 As recently as 1990, Paraguay did not have a soil survey of its territory, not even at reconnaissance
level for the Eastern Region (the most densely populated and agriculturally productive part of its territory).
The project recognized the fundamental need for such information for natural resource management. Under
the project, and utilizing an Environmental Technical Assistance Fund grant from the Government of Japan
executed by the Bank, complete satellite imagery for the Eastern Region was acquired and a set of satellite
maps at a scale of 1:100,000 was prepared from the electronic mosaic of the images. These were used as
the basis for the reconnaissance-level soil survey carried out by DOA/MAG, staffed by six Paraguayan soil
scientists and supported by internationally-recruited staff, including overall guidance at the planning and
field survey stages from a recognized world authority on sub-tropical soils. A soils laboratory was created
at the National University. As a result of the survey, four thematic maps at a scale of 1:500,000 were
prepared, printed by one of the leading map companies and distributed widely within Paraguay; this soil
survey and its products have gained international recognition, and it was awarded prizes at the 16th World
Soil Science Congress in August, 1998.
4.2.13 Based on the identification provided by the reconnaissance-level soil survey, promising areas of
high quality soils in several Departments were the subject of semi-detailed soil surveys carried out by the
same team. The necessary hard-ware (work station and peripheral equipment) and soft-ware were
procured, and the thematic information referred to above was put into the data-base as the first "levels" of
information of the GIS. The design parameters of the GIS were developed at the same time as those for
the SICAT, to ensure compatibility and to provide for the eventual capability to cross-reference cadastral
information and agricultural/soils/land use information.
4.2.14 To provide a link with the Natural Resources Management Project which operates in the
Departments of Alto Parana and Itapuia (and which is supported by the Bank through Ln. 3708-PA),
several of the areas of high quality soils identified for semi-detailed soil survey were located in these two
Departments. Additional work was carried out by a UK consulting firm, under a grant from the UK
Government, to make an innovative approach to identifying land areas vulnerable to erosion based on the
cross-referencing of data from multiple remote imaging sources, including optical and radar-based satellite
imagery. The orthophoto map base and its digital terrain model were used in conjunction with the satellite
imagery information. The orthophoto maps have also been used in the designs of the micro-catchment area
development plans and in the definition of the boundaries of the San Rafael National Park.
Component C: Studies
4.2.15 In the project's design, five studies were identified as being necessary, for the eventual use of the
cadaster and to assist the government with an increasingly serious problem of natural resource
management; one study was related directly to the cadaster, three to natural resource management issues,
and one to the institutional structure of the agricultural sector. In the early years of the newly-established
democratic government, Paraguay was deluged with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance from
many sources. As a result, in the intervening period between preparation/appraisal of the project and the
effectiveness of the Loan, several of these areas of study were fully covered from other sources. For
example, the analysis of institutions in agriculture and proposals for change were dealt with exhaustively in
the preparation of the PROMODAF program, to be financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
(BID), which aimed ambitiously at the total restructuring and reorientation of the MAG and other
- 8 -



institutions. It was agreed between the Bank and the Government that no purpose would be served by
insisting on carrying out the studies defined in the project's design where the same work had already (and
recently) been done. A consultant was hired to examine this issue and to make recornmendations. As a
result, the studies defined in the SAR paragraph 2.53 (b) - concerning land titling; (c) - concerning policies
affecting land use; and (d) - concerning the legal framework for land use, were carried out under the
project. The studies defined in paragraph 2.53 (a) - concerning institutions; and (e) - concerning the role
of indigenous people in natural resource management, were considered to have been covered by other work.
4.2.16 Over the life of the project, the resources freed up by this change were used under the Planning
Directorate (Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n - DGP) of MAG (which at the time of appraisal was the
Technical Department - Gabinete Tecnico) to carry out two major studies at the request of the government.
The first study was the Strategic Plan for Agricultural and Rural Development (Plan Estrategico de
Desarrollo Agro-Rural) of 1997, carried out by a team coordinated by UNDP in Asuncion. The second
study (carried out by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in conjunction with the DGP) covered
two main themes: (a) the establishment of a Land Information System for the Eastern Region of Paraguay (
Sistema de Informaci6n de Tierras para la Region Oriental) based on FAO methodology; and (b) the
preparation of a policy framework to support the objectives of the project and to present a strategy for
sustainable rural development.
4.2.17 The studies carried out under the project, allied to the achievements made on the GIS within
Component B and the work carried out by the government of Paraguay in association with other
multilateral and bi-lateral agencies during the course of the past decade, provide a wealth of information to
under-pin the radical changes that are required in Paraguay, in terms of the protection and sustainable use
of natural resources, and the re-orientation of agricultural development strategy towards an intensification
of land use, now that the geographical frontier has been reached and little new land remains to be brought
into production.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1   No ex ante economic analysis was made of the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1   No financial rate of return or other financial indicators were calculated for the project, which
aimed to improve the government's ability to provide public goods. The SNC is funded as a
sub-secretariat of the MIH and has only recently been empowered to make modest charges for its services
that remain as its income (as opposed to flowing into government revenue through rentas generales, as
before).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  The project did not have explicit institutional development objectives, but there were many aspects
of institutional support under the project that had significant impact in this area. Institutional weakness
was recognized from the earliest days of preparation as being a significant risk. The UTAP was created at
the SNC specifically to address two issues: (a) to avoid an expansion in the permanent size of the SNC
during the development of the new cadaster; and (b) to serve as a vehicle to provide the key technical inputs
(through the hiring of consultants) which were not available in the SNC (and, in significant areas of
expertise, not available elsewhere in Paraguay). Since the new cadaster is wholly different from the earlier
existing cadaster at the SNC, a significant training effort was made, with the SNC as the focus,
-9-



particularly as the new computerized data base (the SICAT) completed its development phase and entered
service. The institutional improvements that were hoped for in the SNC, by and large, did not materialize.
There was considerable political interference in the staffing of both the SNC and the UTAP, and the
tensions that arose between them, as a result inter alia of the very significant differences in salaries
between the civil service (SNC) and consultants (IJTAP), were considerable. The advantages and
disadvantages of project units have been analyzed in depth; in broad terms, the Bank's interest in
institutional development by its borrowers and issues of project ownership dictate that the use of
"insulated" project units should be avoided wherever possible. In this case, the project was implemented by
the SNC and the UTAP supported it technically. In practice, the consultants could have made their inputs
directly through the SNC, but the frictional issues (mainly salaries) would have remained, especially
because the highest-paid consultants tended to be foreign.
4.5.2  In practice, the UTAP was rarely staffed with the full complement of technical specializations
foreseen at design. In part, this was remedied by the contracting of a specialized firm to supervise the
implementation of the major contracts for orthophoto map production and cadastral surveying and to take
primary responsibility for the quality control of outputs. This type of specialized technical supervision
was not included in the project's design, precisely because it was intended that the UTAP would be
adequately staffed to do the job. In practice, it proved to make the difference between success and failure
in both of these ICB-awarded works contracts. The type of technical supervision required, with an
unswerving and adamant insistence on compliance with the technical specifications of the contracts by the
contractors, was much better provided by a firm of intemational repute, acting in support of the SNC, than
it could have been by the staff of the UTAP who, in the end, were individual consultants.
4.5.3   Numerous institutions were affected by the project. These included the IBR, the Public Registry
(Direcci6n General de Registros Pziblicos - DGRP), the DSGM, and the DOA/MAG. In the case of the
DGRP, the project provided help in the form of computer hardware and software that had not been
explicitly included in the project's design, in order that it could meet its obligations (concerning the
systematization of information on titles crucial for the cadaster) under its agreement (convenio) with the
SNC. In the project's design, the inter-institutional relationships between the SNC/UTAP and these other
institutions were embodied in convenios, but in practice the relationships were relatively weak and
extremely dependent on personalities and personal relationships. This had a significant impact on the
project, particularly in the efforts to consolidate information about land-holding in anticipation of the
cadastral surveying.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
.5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
.5.1.1  A number of exogenous factors caused delays, and affected both the implementation and the
outcome of the project. The project's outputs were almost wholly physical, and represented the component
parts of the rural cadaster and the GIS. In the creation of the cadaster and the GIS, each stage of the work
provided the basic "building blocks" for the next. Delays in the creation of any one of the parts were thus
cumulative, with very little scope for recovering lost time.
5.1.2  The early delays were mainly endogenous (see 5.2 and 5.3 below). However, several significant
delays occurred in the implementation of the major works contracts for mapping and cadastral survey
which were beyond the control of the government or the implementing agencies. For example, the
preparation of the orthophoto maps was delayed, first by the extended period required to prepare the
-1 0 -



technical specifications for the bidding document, and second by significant technical difficulties
experienced by the contractor. The preparation of the technical specifications should have been wholly the
responsibility of the SNC/UTAP as part of the bidding document; lacking the necessary expertise to
prepare the specifications, the logical solution would have been to have hired a specialized consultant.
Instead, a process was initiated in which the Bank, the DMA and the SNC/UTAP participated in a
seemingly endless set of iterations without a clear definition of responsibility. Later, in the preparation of
the orthophoto maps themselves, the contractor experienced significant delays; once the SNC/UTAP and
the supervising consultant helped to resolve the technical problems through a strict application of the
technical specifications, map production proceeded at an acceptable rate but the accumulated delays could
not be recovered.
5.1.3  Perhaps the most important exogenous factor was the very significant under-estimate in the cost of
cadastral surveying (see 5.4 below). Although this was not revealed until late in the project's
implementation, because of the weight of survey costs as a proportion of total project costs it ensured that
the greater part of the project area could not be surveyed. When the cadastral survey began, the contractor
was affected in its start-up operations in April 1999 by the continuing political after-shocks from the
assassination of the Vice-President of Paraguay in March of that year, which was followed by a change in
government. Once survey work was under way, the failure to meet the technical specifications in the early
stages meant that a large amount of re-surveying had to be done (which was performed within the
originally-agreed value of the contract). Having resolved the basic problems, a significant increase was
made by the contractor in the amount of human resources dedicated to the work, but even so the initial time
estimated for the survey work increased in practice by almost 100%.
5.1.4  Extensive field work was involved in most aspects of the project, and the climate played an
important role. Heavy rains and flooding in 1994 impeded the surveying necessary for the installation of
the geodetic control network. The acquisition of aerial photography, by and large, benefited from
relatively good weather, although a delay in the start-up date meant that aircraft were taken away from
Paraguay during the period of relatively high cloud cover, and the subsequent re-mobilization caused
further delays. The field work of cadastral survey in 1999-2000, besides the technical difficulties
experienced by the contractor, was hampered by a higher-than-normal number of rain days (making
movement literally impossible on the earth roads of Alto Parana and Itapua), a serious outbreak of Dengue
fever, and a rash of robberies of vehicles used by the surveyors in remote rural areas.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  The most significant delay at the beginning of the project was the time taken to have the Loan
approved by the Paraguayan Congress, which delayed the declaration of Loan Effectiveness by ten months.
Significant delays were also experienced in staffing the UTAP with its long-term core staff, and in general
terms the UTAP was never able to function as it had been planned. Since much of the expertise needed for
the creation of the cadaster necessarily had to come from internationally-hired consultants, the difference
between their costs and the remuneration of local consultants and (particularly) the civil servants of the
SNC was a constant source of friction. There was also a delay of almost one year in the procurement of
the first ICB contract (for aerial photography) because of a reluctance by the authorities at that time to
comply with the procurement guidelines of the Bank. In the early stages of the cadastral survey,
significant changes were made in the senior staffing of the SNC despite the Bank's explicit request that no
change should be made because of its potential impact on the project.
5.2.2  Inter-institutional cooperation was recognized from the earliest stages of identification as being
important for the project's success. Inforrnation and responsibilities for different aspects of land
- 11 -



information are distributed among many institutions. Coordination between them was to be achieved by
means of inter-institutional agreements, but these proved to be weak in practice, particularly where one
party to the agreement was expected to provide data or services but did not receive any resources under the
project. In theory, compliance by the parties to the terms of an agreement should have been subject to
government control, but in practice this was not the case.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1   Although the UTAP was designed and created to provide the necessary technical expertise for the
implementation of the project without unnecessarily expanding the size of the SNC, and should have
worked closely along-side the UTAP in implementing the project, there was an almost continuous low level
of conflict between the two, made worse by the intemal problems of the SNC and by the defacto power of
veto of any decision-making exercised by the MH and, in at least one case, concerning the staffing of the
UTAP, by the Office of the Presidency.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  There were significant changes in project costs between those estimated in design and those
realized in practice. The major discrepancies occurred in three of the main sub-components of the project
(aerial photography, mapping and cadastral surveying), where the investments were carried out on the basis
of contracts awarded through ICB for works and which, in each case, attracted a large number of
responsive bidders. The contracts for aerial photography and for orthophoto mapping were awarded at
prices equivalent to about half the costs estimated at design and verified during appraisal; in both cases, the
winning bid was significantly less than the second-placed bid, and very significantly less than the average
bid (which was close to the design/appraisal estimates). The "savings" represented by this difference
between estimated and actual costs remained in the undisbursed balance of the loan account until the latter
stages of the project, when it was used in cadastral surveying.
5.4.2  In the acquisition of aerial photography, the explanation for the wide difference between the
estimated and the actual costs appears to be that: (a) there was considerable excess capacity available
internationally in this industry; and (b) a strategy was apparently adopted by one or more firms to price
their bids aggressively in order to establish themselves in a new marketing territory. In the case of the
preparation of orthophoto maps, the rapid advances made in technology between the design and the
implementation of the project meant that the technical specification for this work was enhanced from
conventional to digital orthophoto maps. In spite of this, the winning bid was still only half of the
originally estimated value of the work. The explanation is unclear, but appears to be a combination of
declining costs, as a result of new technology, and aggressive pricing designed to establish new markets.
5.4.3  By contrast, the costs of cadastral surveying were seriously under-estimated. The design and
appraisal estimate was equivalent to about US$0.85 per ha, which is about 20% of the cost actually paid
for the "pilot" cadastral survey of Alto Parana and Itapua.(see below). Because the cadastral survey
requires intensive field work, there probably would not have been a strong economy-of-scale effect in
carrying out a cadastral survey of the whole project area of 17.0 million ha vs. the pilot area of 2.4 million
ha actually surveyed. At the same time, the costs of cadastral surveying have elements that are directly
proportional to the number of parcels and elements that are related to the size of parcels in a non-linear
mnanner, and thus the "cost per ha" will vary considerably from one part of the Eastem Region to another.
5.4.4  The pilot survey covered 2,314,461 ha and 103,698 parcels of land, an average of 22.3 ha per
parcel. Given that the pilot survey area is relatively densely farmed and that the cadastral survey contract
- 12-



included the fixed cost of the design, procurement and installation of the SICAT (which is sized to
accommodate the cadastral data base for the whole of the project area), the cost per ha which could be
extrapolated to the whole project area from the pilot survey experience is probably between US$3.75 to
US$4.00 per ha, or about US$85 to US$90 per parcel. That is approximately five times the
design/appraisal estimate. There is no adequate explanation for such a wide divergence between the
estimated cost and that realized in practice. The original cost estimate for cadastral surveying had been
prepared by consultants who had been closely involved in the preceding years with the preparation of a
federal-level cadaster in Argentina, and thus was based on actual costs of aerial photography and ground
survey. It is difficult to make accurate comparisons with cadastral activities in other countries because the
scope of work and working conditions on the ground are not directly comparable; however, recent work
carried out in Bolivia by intemationally-recruited consultants seems to confirm that costs of the order of
US$4 per ha currently represent a reasonable cost.
5.4.5  There were significant implementation and disbursement delays in the project. In the design of the
project, as shown in the SAR, implementation was expected to take five years. In practice, the period from
loan signing to completion was eight years and two months. The main reasons for the delays are described
above, and in synthesis were: (a) the long period (twelve and a half months) between loan signing and loan
effectiveness; (b) very significant problems, and hence a delay of one year, in the procurement of the aerial
photography contract; (c) problems in staffing the UTAP adequately; (d) delays in procuring supervision
services for the orthophoto mapping and cadastral surveying; (e) delays in the preparation of the technical
specification and, hence, the bidding documents for the procurement of the digital orthophoto mapping; and
(f) delays in the implementation of both the mapping and the cadastral surveying contracts, because of
performance problems with the contractors (in both cases, foreign-led consortia).
5.4.6  The implementation schedule included in design was clearly unrealistic, and did not in any way
anticipate these problems and delays. With the benefit of the experience gained with the pilot cadastral
survey, it can be estimated that the completion of the cadastral survey for the whole of the
originally-planned area of 17.0 million ha would probably have added a further two to three years,
including the time required for procurement, which would give a hypothetical implementation period of
about ten to eleven years, or about twice that originally estimated.
5.4.7  Project financing included the Bank's loan, the Environmental Technical Assistance Fund grant
from the Govemment of Japan, a contribution in services from the DMA, and GOP counterpart funding.
The major cadastral investments were all financed at the level of 100% from the Loan. The ETAF grant
was executed by the Bank to finance part of the GIS component. The DMA contribution created the
geodetic control network, with limited counterpart funding. Throughout the life of the project, there were
restrictions on the budgetary allocation of counterpart funds and even greater limitations on the amount of
counterpart funding actually made available to the project. Counterpart funding was designed to finance
most of the recurrent costs of the project, particularly salaries in the SNC. The shortage of counterpart
funding affected the amount of "over-time" done by SNC staff in support of the project (in, for example,
the systematization of existing cadastral information). To a significant degree, the shortage of counterpart
funding was compensated for by an increase in the use of short- and medium-term consultants (in, for
example, the hiring of information technology staff) which reduced the impact that the project might have
had on institutional development at the SNC.
- 13 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1   The probability of the main achievements generated under the project being maintained is
considered as likely. As far as the cadaster is concerned, there is clear evidence that the SNC's parent
ministry - the MIH - fully appreciates the value of what has been created; within the constraints of the
current economic environment, consideration is being actively given to the completion of the cadastral
survey to cover the whole of the Eastern Region and, eventually, the Chaco. The fundamental requirement
for sustainability is that the cadaster should be kept up-to-date, and the requirements for this were defined
in a consultant's report. The consortium that carried out the cadastral survey and established the data base
is continuing for a year after the conclusion of the survey to assist the SNC with the maintenance of the
SICAT as one of the provisions of its contract. The map base is maintained at both the SNC and the
DSGM, and there is growing interest in its use outside the cadaster. As far as the GIS is concerned, the
DOAI/MAG was intimately involved in its creation under the project, and it is considered highly likely that
the achievements will be maintained. In other areas of perhaps more peripheral achievements, for example
the creation and equipping of the soils laboratory and the development of the aerial photography laboratory,
film storage capacity and up-grade of the surveying capacity and equipment at the DSGM, it is considered
likely that the achievements will be maintained.
6.1.2   A properly functioning and articulated system of land administration is crucial for the future
well-being and development of the rural areas. The completion and effective use of the cadaster is a
necessary but not a sufficient requirement for such a system. One of the ultimate goals of the new cadaster
defined at preparation and appraisal was its eventual use as a tool radically to change the whole basis of
land titling, from the current system of "descriptive" titles to one of geo-referenced titles in a system of
folio real". A system of geo-referenced titles would allow the solution of many of the problems that have
grown around the existing system of descriptive titles, such as the duplication of titles and the over-lapping
of titles. For the full achievement of all of the goals defined in the statement of project objectives, a
number of initiatives will need to be taken, including the restructuring of the DGRP and the transformation
of the titling system, and an improvement in the system of collection of rural taxes, in particular the IIR.
6.1.3  The SNC is a long-established unit whose sole concem is the cadaster. As a result of the project, it
has been fully equipped with the computerized cadastral data base (the SICAT), the full complement of
information technology sufficient to operate and manipulate the digital orthophoto map base, and a fully
computerized office. Also as a result of the project, it now occupies a fully-renovated building equipped
with the necessary climate control for the operation of computers, a full network, and adequate storage
facilities for the map and aerial photograph products. However, the completion of the project has been
accompanied by the effective closure of the UTAP (as intended in the design), and this has thrown the SNC
back on its own resources in terms of the staff available to solve problems and manage the cadaster.
6.1.4  Financial viability of the SNC is the key to its technical viability. Maintaining a cadaster
up-to-date in line with land market transactions, parcel sub-divisions, etc., is the most important challenge
to be faced. In the aftermath of the project, the SNC needs to be properly funded, through the GOP's
normal budget, if it is to be able fully to discharge its responsibilities. As a result of initiatives taken over
thie past eighteen months, the SNC is now able to charge for some of its services and retain the revenues
generated for its own operations. It would be useful if consideration were to be given by the MH to
making the SNC fully self-sustaining. In the SNC, significant amounts of training were given, particularly
- 14 -



in the latter years of the project and especially in the area of information technology, to ensure that the staff
were capable of using and maintaining the new system.
6.1.5  Institutional development and strengthening per se were not one of the objectives of the project,
although traininig was an important input at different stages of the project life. It is now clear that
institutional weakness was a serious problem at various points of the project, but it is less clear that an
attempt in project design to strengthen institutions would have met with success. The major difficulty
faced by the SNC is a generic one, that of the low salary scales of the civil service which is reinforced by
the tendency of the public sector to expand employment. It will be difficult for the SNC to retain skilled
staff, particularly in the area of information technology which is crucial to the maintenance and operation
of the cadaster. This problem was eased during the project by the existence of the UTAP, which paid
salaries that permitted a full-time dedication to the job. It is difficult to argue that the SNC should be
subject to a different salary and employment regime from the rest of the civil service, and any attempt to
improve salaries would be likely (as in the past) simply to provoke a swift reaction among organized labor
within the MH and elsewhere in the civil service. Allowing the SNC to expand on its revenue-generating
activities as a means of supplementing its budget and thereby improving remuneration to staff is
superficially attractive, but would probably fall victim to demands for parity from the rest of the civil
service.
6.1.6  Since the constitutional reforrn of the early 1 990s, from a fiscal point of view the municipalities are
the biggest beneficiaries of the new cadaster because they now have the obligation to collect the IIR and
retain most of it. Because of the technological requirements, the cadaster must remain centralized and
organized on a homogenous basis, and there would be serious problems in attempting to decentralize the
cadaster (in terms of its maintenance and operation) to the level of the municipalities. The SNC should
continue to control the cadaster and to generate for the individual municipalities the IIR tax invoices, and
the municipalities should pay the SNC to keep the cadaster up-to-date.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1   The project basically created new tools - the cadaster and the GIS - within existing institutions, and
there is, in practice, no transitional arrangementper se for the project's future operation. However, the
creation of the new cadaster is the first step in achieving a transformation of the system of land
administration in Paraguay. The most pressing requirement is to complete the cadaster by carrying out the
survey of the remaining part of the Eastem Region and the southem part of the Chaco. This should be
accompanied by the revision of the cadastral law and by the strengthening and/or restructuring of those
institutions responsible for activities in land administration, including the SNC, the DGRP and the IBR.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1   Project Idenrification:  The Bank's role in identification was straight-forward and its
performance satisfactory. In late-1989, the new administration that had taken over at the end of the
Stroessner dictatorship (in February 1989) was assessing the challenges it faced and defining a program of
support for economic development compatible with the shortage of fiscal resources. The almost complete
lack of knowledge about land - including its productive capability, its distribution and ownership, and its
actual use - was a clear impediment both to sustainable agricultural and rural development and to the
collection of fiscal resources from a sector responsible for almost 30% of GDP. The project first
- 15 -



identified was the Agricultural Development Project, which was subsequently divided into two, the Land
Use Rationalization Project and what later came to be known as the Natural Resources Management
Project (now supported by the Bank under Loan No. 3 708-PA).
7.1.2  In the context of a sectoral adjustment operation, supported by the Bank's Agricultural Sector
Loan, in 1989 work had recently been completed in Argentina in the preparation of a federal-level fiscal
cadaster and a detailed methodology for land valuation. Based on that experience, the Bank worked
closely with the government of Paraguay (in particular, the MH and the MAG) to identify the shortcomings
in land information, in terms both of the cadaster operated by the SNC and of the soils and land-use
mapping that was the responsibility of MAG. The lack of information was almost complete, and the
government's decision to remedy this meant that a significant effort and large investment would have to be
made to compensate for the lack of investment in the past. To reflect the importance given to the issues,
the MH elevated the SNC in stature from a directorate-level to a subsecretarial-level body.
7.1.3  There was no coherent development strategy or set of priorities for the rural sector at the time of
the project's identification. However, a number of imperatives preoccupied the government, including an
apparently growing problem of social unrest among landless people and the dichotomy between the very
low generation of fiscal resources in the agricultural sector vs. the significant need for public investment in
the rural areas.
7.1.4  The preparation of the project predates the formal introduction of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) process by the Bank. However, the Bank's objectives and strategy for Paraguay had been defined
during intensive missions in 1989 and 1990. In the rural and agricultural sectors, the main strategy was to
support the intensification of agricultural production and its sustainability, supporting initiatives: (a) to
improve the government's knowledge base and policy-making capacity; (b) to manage natural resources
efficiently; (c) to improve institutions; and (d) to raise small farmer productivity and rural welfare.
7.1.5  Project Preparation: The Bank played a major role in preparing the project. The preparation
(and appraisal) of the project benefited from the detailed experience of one staff member in particular in the
areas of aerial photography and mapping, and soil survey. A Japanese Environmental Technical
Assistance Fund (ETAF) grant was obtained in late- 1989 to prepare soil surveys and soil/land use mapping
in the context of identifying and preparing an Environmental Technical Assistance project. This project
did not materialize, and many of the activities proposed for it were taken up elsewhere; the grant and the
activities it supported were subsequently included in the Land Use Rationalization Project. Because of the
delays anticipated in applying for and finalizing a Project Preparation Facility advance, the Bank used an
allocation of its own consulting budget to deploy a team of consultants to work with the government to
carry out the preparation during the last quarter of CY1 990.
;7.1.6  The project's design was adequate in its technical aspects and although it included significant
technological advances, particularly in the areas of mapping and electronic data base management, the
institutions involved were correctly judged to be capable of absorbing such advances with the appropriate
technical assistance and training. However, the design was shown to be inadequate in at least three
significant and inter-related aspects. First, the time-frame proposed for implementation was unrealistically
short and made no allowance for delays. Second, the significant under-estirnate made in the calculation of
the costs of cadastral surveying meant that the implicit objectives of the project (the inclusion of the whole
project area in the new cadaster) could not be achieved. Third, in its institutional aspects the project's
design had significant weaknesses, particularly where the SNC itself was concemed. The creation of the
UTAP to provide the necessary technical expertise for the project's implementation without unnecessarily
expanding the SNC's permanent size was correct, but only for a brief period towards the end of the
- 16-



project's life did the UTAP operate as it was designed to do. In terms of financial management, no
significant problems were revealed by the regular external (private sector) audit. In procurement, several
difficult and time-consuming issues occurred early in the life of the project, mainly because specific
individuals were reluctant to follow closely the Bank's guidelines and norms. This was not a short-coming
in design, however, and in the later years of the project the SNC produced procurement documents of
exemplary quality and carried out international procurement of works, goods, and consulting services to a
tight schedule.
7.1.7 Project Appraisal: The Bank's appraisal of the project emphasized institutional aspects, but with
the benefit of hind-sight it is clear that the capacity of the implementing agencies was significantly
over-estimated. The commitment of the government and the implementing agencies was accurately read,
but the initial procurement capacity, in particular, of the main implementing agency, the SNC, was not well
judged. The success of the project depended to a degree on the willingness of several state institutions to
cooperate with the implementing agencies, particularly with the SNC, in such areas as geodesics, map
production and the compilation of existing information about land-holding. This cooperation was to be
based on inter-institutional agreements (convenios), the preparation and signing of which were part of the
Loan's conditionality. In practice, the effectiveness of such cooperation was limited, particularly where
institutions were required to undertake considerable amounts of work without receiving incremental
resources from the Loan (or any other budgetary source).
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The Banks performance in supervision, on the whole, was satisfactory. Progress in
implementation was adequately reported: since there were delays from the beginning of the project, and
since these delays tended to be cumulative, with little scope for the recovery of lost time via the application
of additional resources, the history of the project was one of trying to overcome a series of obstacles, many
of which were institutional in nature. In this sense, problems were identified early and addressed
proactively, but not necessarily solved. The performance ratings were, if anything, on the optimistic side.
7.2.2  The Closing Date of the Loan was extended twice to accommodate implementation delays.
Overall, compliance with Loan covenants was good. There were, however, delays in the submission of
audit reports to the Bank, particularly in the early years of the project. The comments of the auditors were
dealt with promptly by the project's accounting and administrative staff, and in this respect there was a
clear sense that the project's management took the issues more seriously in the latter years of the project's
life. Compliance with the Bank's procurement norms was achieved only with difficulty in the very early
stages of the project, most notably in the procurement of aerial photography via ICB. A Special Account
established in the Central Bank in accordance with the Loan Agreement was closed because of its lack of
use and the proceeds retumed to the Bank.
7.2.3  The project was not restructured, but several changes were made in which the Bank showed itself
to be flexible where required to respond to changing circumstances. Bank staff took a lead role, for
example, in the change from conventional to digital orthophoto maps (described above), liaising with the
DMA in the elaboration of the technical specifications for inclusion in the bidding documents (although, as
pointed out above, this was an element of delay). A major modification recommended by the UTAP and
the SNC was that specialized supervision services should be hired to monitor work and carry out quality
control under the orthophoto mapping and the cadastral surveying contracts. This had originally been seen
as one of the UTAP's roles, but based on its experience with the aerial photography contract the UTAP
coordinators concluded that a fully independent and objective entity would be preferable. The Bank
approved this recommendation, and in both cases procurement followed consultant firm selection
- 17 -



procedures carried out internationally.
7.2.4  The relationship between the Bank and the MH (the representative of the Borrower) was generally
good, although there were several instances of extended disagreements, particularly concerning
procurement and staffing. The two "co-financiers" were associated with specific technical parts of the
project. The DMA was responsible for the installation of the geodetic control network, in which it worked
closely with the DSGM in a complex operation that require travel to the remotest parts of the country, and
for the provision of the calculations of the new geoid for the digital terrain model. The ETAF grant was
executed by the Bank, which worked closely with the DOA.
7.2.5  The project had only two task managers, and the continuity achieved was important in maintaining
close links with the implementing agencies. Relatively little use was made of consultants during
supervision, in large part because much of the technical expertise required was available through a specific
Bank staff member, who maintained close links with the DMA and with the consultants responsible for the
soil surveys. Supervision was frequent in the early years of the project, in part because the staff
responsible were involved in other sector work, projects and grant execution in Paraguay and extended,
multitask mnissions were the norrn. The support of Bank managers was of crucial importance, particularly
in the area of procurement, but also in the extensions of the Closing Date required to enable work to be
completed. In the latter years of the project's life, the establishment first of a Facilitating Office and then
of a Resident Mission in Asunci6n was of significant importance; it allowed a direct and personal form of
communication between the project and the Bank on a permanent basis.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. It demonstrated a judicious blend of
firmness on required occasions with pragmatism and flexibility at other times that allowed the project to
recover from several serious set-backs and delays and to achieve most of its technical objectives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The Borrower's agencies played a key role in project preparation. The SNC was fully aware of
the major short-cornings of the then-existing cadaster and of the potential utility of a modem cadaster using
up-to-date technology. The DOA/MAG similarly recognized the major impediment to the development of
the sustainable use of natural resources that was presented by the lack of information. Both of these
agencies worked closely with the consultants and the Bank during project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  In many ways, the history of the cadastral component of the project is of the SNC's struggle with
its own inherent weaknesses in working with the UTAP to create the major building blocks of the geodetic
control network, aerial photography, orthophoto mapping, cadastral survey and development of the SICAT.
T he performance of the government and of the main implementing agency are difficult to disentangle; the
SNC is a line agency of the MH, and there were several examples of "interference" by staff of the MH
which had serious consequences. These included an unnecessary involvement in the procurement of the
aerial photography contract, which came close to having disastrous consequences for the project, and
several decisions concerning the staffing of the UTAP and the SNC. The UTAP functioned as designed
for only a brief part of the life of the project, and there was a tendency not to staff it with the expertise
required; since much of the expertise required was, almost by definition, not available in Paraguay, the
- 18-



"high" cost involved in hiring long-term foreign consultants was a constant source of friction.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
7.6.1   The SNC had five Directors during the implementation period. In general terms, institutions in
Paraguay are very "personal" in the sense that their effectiveness is frequently largely a function of the
leadership qualities and management expertise of the person in charge; the SNC is no exception to this, and
different Directors had different attitudes towards the project. At times, the project was effectively run by
the UTAP, with the Director of the SNC adopting a "hands off' approach; at other times, the Director was
firmly in control.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1   The overall performance of the Borrower is considered, on balance, to have been unsatisfactory.
However, this conclusion must take into account that there were significant improvements as the project
progressed. Some of the causes of the delay were outside the control of the Borrower, specifically in the
preparation of maps and the carrying out of the cadastral survey. The failure to complete the cadastral
survey for the whole of the project area was a function both of the cumulative delays in project
implementation, for which the Borrower was in part responsible (particularly in procurement), and of the
serious under-estimate of the cost involved in cadastral surveying, which was basically the responsibility of
the consultants who prepared the project and, to a certain extent, the Bank.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 In the preparation and implementation of the project, a number of key lessons have been learned or
reinforced. Several of them are country-specific, and reflect the unique circumstances of Paraguay's
emergence from a long-term dictatorship and its slow (and continuing) transformation to democracy. The
legacy of dictatorship is nowhere more evident than in the country's institutions and in the expectations that
individuals have of these institutions. Among the most important lessons learned are the following:
(a) The importance of institutions in project implementation is once more emphasized. The analysis of
the strengths and weaknesses of the institutions participating in (or otherwise influencing) implementation,
and the preparation of measures to address the perceived weaknesses, are necessary but not sufficient
conditions for project success. Many of the weaknesses which became apparent during implementation
would probably not have been resolved by project-specific interventions. Paraguay is a conservative
country, and its reluctance to undertake reform extends to many sectors of the economy. This problem is
exacerbated by the existence of a highly-politicized civil service.
(b) Detailed attention must be paid to those institutions whose cooperation is required for a project's
success but which are not implementing agencies and do not participate financially in the project. The
establishment, in particular, of inter-institutional agreements must be based on an understanding of the
mutual benefits to be derived by the parties. A one-way flow of information or benefits is unlikely to
generate the cooperation required.
(c) The importance of the ex ante establishment of proper accounting systems and procurement planning,
introduced as a requirement of loan processing by the Bank in recent years, is also emphasized by the
experience of this project.
- 19 -



(d) In procurement, the use of works criteria, whenever a technical specification for output can be
defined, is greatly to be preferred to the use of consultants' services criteria, because it reduces the scope
for subjectivity and the room for interpretation. This was amply demonstrated on two occasions under the
project (in the procurement of orthophoto mapping and cadastral surveying).
(e) The use of specialized consultants for the technical supervision of contracts and the quality control of
outputs should be considered carefully in project design and appraisal. The independence of judgment of
such consultants and the ability to insist on compliance with technical specifications can be invaluable, as
was the case on two separate occasions in this project.
(f) The Bank must be willing to show flexibility where necessary. The extension of the Closing Date of a
loan, for example, should only be made when there is evidence of progress and where a convincing Action
Plan has been prepared, but staff should not be so risk-averse as to demand "guarantees" of success before
allowing the Borrower to make its best efforts to achieve results. The Bank should also be ready to be
absolutely inflexible when the conditions demand it. Occasionally, a "show of force" is necessary (for
example, in the application of procurement norms) even at the risk of having the project canceled.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1    After reviewing the draft Implementation Completion Report, the Borrower informed the Bank that
it had no comments to make concerning the contents of the report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output Indicator                Target Date (SAR)                   Actual Date
Cadastral Component:
1. Establishment of the geodetic
control network:
- completion of monuments                   July 1992                      December 1992
- completion of calculations/final        September 1992                   September 1993
network adjustments
2. Aerial photography:
- delivery of final products               October 1992                    December 1994
3. Orthophoto map production
- delivery of final products              December 1993                      June 1998
4. Cadastral survey:
- completion                              December 1996                      June 2000
5. Cadastral Information System
- delivery and installation of              June 1993                      December 1999
computer hardware
- development of software and              October 1993                    December 1999
information system training
GIS Component:
1. Reconnaiscence-level soil survey:
- completion and map production            January 1993                      June 1995
2. Semi-detailed soil survey:
- completion and map production            January 1994                    December 1999
3. GIS computer work-station:
- acquisition and installation of         September 1992                     June 1999
hardware and software
4. Input of data                          December 1995                     March 2000
Studies Component:
1. The role of the public sector in         April 1993                           *
agriculture
2. The system of land titling               June 1993                      November 1998
3. Policies affecting land use            December 1992              February 1993 and June 2000
4. Legal framework to improve land        December 1992              February 1993 and June 2000
use and establish ordenamiento
territorial
5. The role of indigenous people in       December 1992                          *
natural resource management
* see paragraph 4.2.15. These studies were covered by other technical assistance outside the project.
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Rural Cadaster                                      34.50          30.92           89.6
Geographic Information System                        2.10           2.10           100
Studies                                              0.60           0.60           100
Total Baseline Cost                                 37.20          33.62
Physical Contingencies                              2.40
Price Contingencies                                 1.50
Total Project Costs            41.10           33.62
Total Financing Required             41.10          33.62
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuremient Method'
Expenditure Category     IcB                            2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB     ~Other
1. Works                    16.60         0.00          0.00         0.00        16.60
(16.60)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (16.60)
2. Goods                     0.50         0.70          0.90         0.00         2.10
(0.50)       (0.70)       (0.50)       (0.00)        (1.70)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          8.40         0.00         8.40
Cadastral Survey            (0.00)        (0.00)       (8.40)       (0.00)       (8.40)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         3.70         3.70
Geodetic Survey             (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          2.80         0.00         2.80
Consulting Services         (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.30)       (0.00)       (2.30)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         7.50         7.50
Operational Expenses        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     17.10         0.70         12.10        11.20        41.10
(17.10)      (0.70)       (11.20)       (0.00)      (29.00)
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       20.03          0.00           0.18          0.01         20.22
(20.03)        (0.00)        (0.18)        (0.00)        (20.21)
2. Goods                        2.05          0.00           0.00          0.17          2.22
(2.05)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.05)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
Cadastral Survey               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          3.60          3.60
Geodetic Survey                (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           5.31          2.27          7.58
Consulting Services            (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.31)        (0.00)        (5.31)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
Operational Expenses           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       22.08           0.00          5.49          6.05          33.62
(22.08)        (0.00)        (5.49)        (0.00)        (27.57)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate           ActuallLatest Estimate
Bank     Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Rural Cadaster          27.40      7.40      3.60     26.00      1.30      3.60     94.9   17.6  100.0
Geographic Information   1.00      0.20      0.90      1.00      0.20      0.90    100.0  100.0  100.0
System
Studies                  0.60      0.00      0.00      0.60      0.00      0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
- 23-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No ex ante economic analysis was made of the project.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification:             I   Operations Specialist
Environmental                1   Geographer
Technical                   1   Forestry Specialist
Assistance                  1   Environimental Specialist
Project:                     1   Anthropologist
August 1989
Identification:             2   Agricultural Economist
March 1990                   1   Economist
AppraisallNegotiation
Appraisal:                  2   Agricultural Economist
July 1991                   1   Geographer
1   Economist
Negotiations:
January 1992                2   Agricultural Economist
Supervisioi                             1   Geographer
ISupervision
January 1993                 1   Geographer
Sept! October 1993           1   Financial Specialist
November 1993                1   Agricultural Economist              S             S
November 1993                1   Geographer
I   Soil Scientist
March 1994                   2   Agricultural Economist              S             S
October 1994                 1   Agricultural Economist              S             S
October 1995                 1   Geographer                          U             S
June 1996                    1   Geographer                          U             S
December 1996                1   Geographer                          S             S
April 1997                   1   Geographer                          S             S
1   Agricultural Economist
June 1997                    1   Geographer                          S             S
1   Agricultural Econornist
October 1997                 1   Agricultural Economist
1   Geographer
March 1998                   1   Agricultural Economist
September 1998               1   Agricultural Economist
April 1999                   1   Agricultural Economist              S             S
October 1999                 1   Agricultural Economist              S             S
December 1999                1   Agricultural Economist
April 2000                   1   Agricultural Economnist            U              U
|ICR
April 2000                   1    Agricultural Economist
- 25 -



(b) Staff:
I    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               125.1                      173.50
Appraisal/Negotiation                     76.9                      188.80
Supervision                              170.9                      497.80
ICR                                        8.0                       30.10
Total                                    380.9                      890.20
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          C H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
G Sector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Ol Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  ONA4
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Ol Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Gl Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
n Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
G Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
G Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS Os   Ou  O HU
C Government implementation performance             O HS O S   * U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
D Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report: Land Use Rationalization Project: Report No. 10102-PA: February 19, 1992
2. Loan Agreement: Loan No. 3445-PA: April 28, 1992
3. Project Progress and Annual Reports
4.  Supervision Reports
5. Ordenamiento Ambiental del Territorio: Diagn6stico, Estrategias y Directrices: Arq. Marta
Balderiote: 1992
6. Ordenaniiento Ambiental del Territorio - Propuestas de Acciones: Arq. Marta Balderiote: 1993
7.  A New GPS Geodetic Control Network for Paraguay; James A. Slater; Surveying and Land
Information Systems, Volume 53, No. 2, 1993
8. Plan Estrategico de Desarrollo Agro-Rural: PNllD-MAG: October 1997
9.  Inforrne Tecnico sobre Grado de Cumplimiento de la Parte C y Nuevas Propuestas para Fortalecer el
Alcance del PRUT: DGP/FAO: April 1999
10. Reconocimiento de Suelos y Capacidad de Uso de las Tierras - Regi6n Oriental: DOA/MAG:
August 1998
11. Procedimientos Generales para la Realizaci6n de Estudios Semidetallados de Suelo: Ing. Agr. Alexis
Vasquez: March 1997
12. Asistencia Preparatoria para la Actualizacion del Componente Estudios: Ing. Agr. Miguel
Cetrangolo: March 1996
13. Ley Reguladora de la Actividad Catastral a Nivel Nacional - Proyecto "B": Prof. Oscar Boltes:
14. Estudio del Proceso de Titulaci6n de la Tierra y su Relaci6n con el Catastro: Ing. Dante Prato
Rodriguez: November 1998
15. Informe Tecnico sobre el Grado de Cumplimiento de la Parte "C" y Nuevas Propuestas para
Fortalecer el Alcance del PRUT: FAO/DGP-MAG: April 1999
16. Borrower's Report: Comentarios sobre el Proyecto de Racionalizacion del Uso de la Tierra (PRUT):
December 2000
17. Informe de Ejecucion del PRUT: SNC: October 30, 2000
18. Informe Tecnico del PRUT: UTAP: November 1997
- 29-



19. Informe Final: Contrato No.5 para el Desarrollo e Implementaci6n de un Sistema de Informacion
Catastral y Levantamiento Catastral de Campo de las Areas Rurales de los Departamentos de Alto Parana
e Itapuia (sur); GICAT; October 2000
20. Consultoria para la Elaboraci6n de un Programa de Mantenimiento del Catastro Rural; Inforrne
Final; Marcelo Vieira Nascimento; July 2000
21. Estudios para la Racionalizacion del Uso de la Tierra: Resultados y Recomendaciones del Proyecto:
FAO-DGP/MAG: July 2000
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. The Borrower's Report: Comments on the Land Use Rationalization
Project
1.    Objectives Achieved
The Land Use Rationalization Project (LUIRP) has the ability to provide the basic tools necessary
to define a more efficient function for the public sector in the provision of services and infrastructure for
agricultural development, permitting the long-term planning of the use of natural resources.
The information provided by the project is of fundamental importance for the promotion of
sustainable agriculture and the diversification of production through the application of technology, in
addition to allowing the possibility of improving the capacity of the government to regulate the use of
natural resources and limit environmental degradation.
Once the cadaster is completed, it will permit the regularization of land tenure as well as the
cleaning-up of land titles and the property registers, thereby strengthening the work of the Public Registry (
Direccion General de Registros Publicos - DGRP) which has received the support of the project in terms
of the supply of computers for the systematization of its data.
Income from the property sector will also be increased through the improvement in the information
provided for the application of existing fiscal instruments (through the system of technical and fiscal
valuation) based on the improved identification of rural land holdings.
The private sector will benefit from the regularization of land tenure with the introduction of
transparent titling processes, access to advanced services and a clear definition of land use capacity.
2.    Activities by Component
The project created a high-precision geodetic grid, based on satellite observations and referenced to
the ellipsoid WGS84 and the geoid 96, Paraguay being the first country in Latin America to complete this
task. Paraguay is one of the first countries to implement a project of digital cartography, establishing a
new map base at scales of 1:25,000 and 1:5,000 consisting of digital orthophoto maps, which was
established under the project.
The fundamental achievements under the cadastral component of the project were: the
re-establishment of the national geodetic grid, the acquisition of aerial photographic cover, the installation
of an aerial photography laboratory the design and implementation of a Geographic Information System
(GIS), the training of the staff of the National Cadastral Service (Servicio Nacional de Catastro -SNC),
the acquisition of geodetic and topographic surveying equipment, and the studies for the establishment of
the methodology for valuation of parcels and the maintenance of the cadaster.
Note: This translation of the Borrower's report, entitled "Comentarios sobre el Proyecto de Racionalizacion del
Uso de la Tierra" dated December 2000, is the responsibility of the author of the ICR.
- 31 -



In its Component B, corresponding to the establishment of the basis for Agro-ecological Planning,
the project carried out the complete soil survey of the Eastem Region resulting in the complete
identification and classification of the soils, definition of the capacity of land use and the agro-ecological
classification of the rural areas, all of which information is available in digital form.
In Component C, under the responsibility of the Directorate of Planning (Direcci6n General de
Planificaci6n - DGP) of the Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia - MAG),
developed a Strategic Plan for Rural Development as well as (the study of) the process of land titling, in
coordination with the DGRP and the SNC.
3.    Modification in the Methodology of the Cadaster
Having demonstrated that in similar exercises in the rural sector under other programs which did
not achieve the results expected of them, the project replaced the process of Sworn Declarations (
Declaraci6n Jurada), initially proposed for the systematization of the property registers, with a unification
of the information on property ownership; the tasks of the SNC and the DGRP concem two types of public
registry (graphic and alpha-numeric, respectively) which have been coordinated to allow an improvement in
the security cf registration and the procedure for land titling.
The project has experienced delays in its implementation but these have been due to the very
substantial changes made in the technology employed to create the new cadaster.
In effect, those responsible for the implementation of the project (with the support of the World
Bank) took the opportunity to change the project through the incorporation of technological advances. As a
result, the modern cadastral system created has the capacity in terms of equipment, physical infrastructure,
and human resources necessary to expand and allow the completion of the cadastral survey for the
remaining arcas of the country.
The cadastral information obtained for the Departments of Alto Parand and Itapuia through the
contracting of specialized companies and that obtained directly by the SNC in other areas of the country
although of vital importance for fiscal objectives does not resolve the problems of land tenure because of
the lack of an efficient administrative procedure to allow the reconciliation of the real situation in the rural
areas with the information in the registers. This system of reconciliation is necessary for the establishment
of the legal cadaster which will guarantee the legal security over land.
The maintenance of cadastral information and keeping it up-to-date is the key for any successful
cadastral system. In the case of the LURP, the technical norms recognized internationally for the
maintenance of a digital cadaster have been followed. The project was based on the sequential
implementation of the establishment of the digital cartographic base, the design and implementation of the
cadastral information system (SICAT) and the carrying out of the cadastral survey.
The need for the sequential carrying out of a series of tasks is a factor of extreme importance in the
process of ex post project evaluation; the costs of the project were not related directly to the time involved
in its implementation but to the activities carried out, and the stage of cadastral surveying was the most
expensive of the whole project.
The process of cadastral surveying included highly technical and specialized services aimed at the
establishment of a modem system of cadastral information obtained through advanced technology in which
- 32 -



technical aspects (including quality and methodology) have been of more importance than cost factors.
4.    Financial Implementation
The use of project funds corresponding to the Loan Agreement with the World Bank for each one
of the activities executed as works, acquisition of goods and consultants' services was made in accordance
with the World Bank's norms and guidelines, and all corresponding disbursements were requested in
conformity with the requirements of the Bank for the processing of the payments for the different activities.
In addition, an Agreement was signed with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for
the administration of (some of) the funds of the project, with budgetary lines established and revised in
accordance with the implementation of the specific tasks of the project. In particular, these activities
related to the hiring of the consultants for the Project Technical Support Unit (Unidad Tecnica de Apoyo al
Proyecto - UTAP), the procurement of equipment, furniture, vehicles, equipment for the aerial
photography laboratory, surveying equipment, and computers and other information technology hard-ware
and soft-ware.
Both the implementation of the project carried out in accordance with the norms of the UNDP as
well as the direct payments made via the World Bank were duly audited by independent auditing firms from
the beginning of the project; in the seven years of project implementation, no significant anomalies have
been reported with respect to the administration and application of funds.
5.     Legal Aspects of the Implementation of the Cadaster
The draft cadastral law (Proyecto de Ley Catastral) which is currently in its final stages of
preparation for the maintenance of cadastral information foresees a close working relationship between the
SNC, the municipalities and the DGRP which will share one single cadastral data base; the SNC will be
responsible for the maintenance up-to-date of parcel and economic data and the municipalities will be
responsible for the information conceming buildings and other improvements.
The data base will receive information concerning ownership and title from the DGRP. Where
small municipalities are concerned, the data entry will be carried out by the SNC on the basis of
information concerning buildings and other improvements provided by the respective municipalities.
6.     Conclusions
On the basis of these considerations, it is recommended that advantage should be taken of the
infrastructure of the SNC, the trained human resources and the enormous experience gained in this project,
analyzing the alternatives which would allow the continuity of the works mentioned.
- 33-



- 34 -



