D0o¢mt of
The World Bank
FOR OWfJCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5682-PA  Type: (PR)                           Rqwt No. P-5682-PA
OLIVER, S./ X39440 / I6095/ LA4AG
MEMORANDUM AND) RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
-XCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALEMT TO US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 19, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUkRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guarani (G)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of January 31, 1992)
US$1.00 0 G1,427
G1.00 - US$0.0007
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIG8TS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
AUBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNh
APA       Agreed Plan of Action
GIS       Geographic Information System
GOP       Government of Paraguay
GT        Technical Cabinet (of MAG)
IAGS      Inter-American Geodetic Survey
IBR       Rural Welfare Institute
HAG       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MR        Ministry of Finance
ONCAP     National Office for Project Coordination and
Administration (of MAG)
PERD      Policy and Human Resource Development
SSRNM     Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
(of NAG)
SNC       National Cadastral Service (of MH)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
UTAP      Project Coordination and Management Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Republic of Paraguay
ESecutint AEencies:       The Ministry of Finance
The Nini*try of Agriculture and Livestock
feneficiaries:            Not applicable
Loan Amount:              US$29.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Twenty years, including five years of grace, with
amortization on an annuity basis, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
JinancLna Plans           Government of Paraguay          US$ 7.6 million
IBRD                           US$29.0 million
Cofinancing:
Inter-American Geodetic Survey US$ 3.6 million
GOJapan                        USS 0.9 million
Total                          US$41.1 million
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Apnraisal Re,ort: Report No. 10102-PA
Haps:     IBRD No. 20569R
IBRD No. 23436
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMCNDATION Or THE PRESIDENT
OF SHE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
.LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
1    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
loan to Paraguay for US$29.0 million eqaivalent is submitted for your
approval. The proposed loan would be on standard Bank terms with twenty
years' maturity, a grace period of five years and a variable interest rate.
It would help to finance a Land Use Rationalization Project, which would be
cofinanced by the Inter-American Geodetic Survey and the Government of Japan.
2. Back2roundt The agricultural sector has played an important role in the
impressive economic performance achieved by Paraguay since 1970, and
represents one of the most promising sources of further export-driven growth.
The sector generates 30% of GDP, employs 40% of the work force, and provides
90% of registered merchandise exports. Agricultural products are an important
source o0 raw iaaterials for industry, and agro-industry contributes some 50%
of total industrial value-added.
3.   The development models emphasizing industrialization and urban growth
which characterized many Latin American countries in the period following the
second World War were not adopted in Paraguay, which has the lowest level of
urbanization in the region. Almost 60% of the population of 4 million lives
in the rural areas. Instead of a tendency towards rural-urban migration, with
the resultant increase in the number of marginalized poor experienced by so
many countries, Paraguay has achieved a deconcentration of its population
through settlement of previously-undeveloped parts of the country. However,
this strategy is rapidly approaching its limit.
4.   The different stages of Paraguay's agricultural development have all
been extractive and/or exploitive of natural resources. With land as an
abundant factor, the natural renewal of fertility and the low level of
intensity of land use allowed this to operate as a sustainable form of
production for a long period. Beginning in the early 1970s, however, the
agricultural sector and the economy as a whole underwent important structural
changes. The Government's major road-building programs quickly put huge, and
hitherto undeveloped, areas within economic access, and large tracts of state
land (tierras fiscales) were distributed to both large and small farmers. By
the 1980s, the agricultural sector had become one of the most dynamic sectors
of the economy, driven by export demand and based primarily on the extension
of the cultivated area at the expense of the natural forest.
5.    Large-scale internal migration of peasants occurred, coupled with the
arrival of many small- and medium-scale farmers from neighboring countries,
mainly Brazil. Between 1960-1970, an estimated 400,000 people moved to the
new lands of the east and north-east. The early emphasis on settling peasants
was replaced by the introduction of larger-scale operations, with significant



- 3 -
capital resources and a modern, higher technology approach to agriculture.
Only in the past 30 years has a truly national agrarian economy been created,
and the different phases of evolution of the agricultural sector have left
their mark on the structures of land-holding and production. Indigenous
hunter/gatherers, extensive cattle ranchers, and minifurdio/miggofund.io
subsistence farmers are all present, in addition to numerous forms of
production based on small-, medium- and large-scale commercial farms.
6.   This social and economic development strategy has increased the absolute
and relative importance of the agricultural sector, but has not had a balanced
impact on the rural population. The acceleration of agricultural growth at
the expense of the natural forest has meant that the frontier of agricultural
production based on the extension of the cultivated land area will soon be
reached. The rate of deforestation and incorporation of land into productive
use has, in fact, accelerated in the aftermath of the change in government in
1989, as large land-owners have sought to avoid illegal occupation by the
landless and/or expropriation by the State for settlement purposes. In
addition, there is a potentially serious problem of increasing degradation and
erosion of soils in the areas already taken into production. After more than
two decates of dynamic agricultural growth, Paraguay is rapidly approaching a
crucial juncture in the development of its rural areas; the strategy to be
adopted must go beyond the confines of purely agricultural development, and
must emphasize increases in output and productivity in tandem with a
heightened concern with the environment and the preservation of natural
resources.
7.   The challenge now facing the government is that of orchestrating the
change from horizontal development (i.e., expansion of the productive area) to
the vertical development of agriculture by adopting measures to improve
productivity and increase output on a sustainable basis; its strategy must
also take account of the major population growth being experienced. The key
issues in the agricultural sector are: (a) the use and protection of natural
resources in sustainable agricultural production systems; (b) the skewed
distribution of land, and the land tenure system; (c) the weakness and
fragmentation of sector institutions; (d) the lack of agricultural strategy
and policy, and of information for their formulation; (e) the low level of
taxation of agriculture and the lack of efficient tax instruments; and (f) the
growing pressure on indigenous communities in the competition for natural
resources.
8. Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Bank's country assistance objectives
and strategy have been defined through intensive mission contacts since the
change of government in early 1989. Bank strategy is to support Paraguay's
shift from an ea-qnsive model of agricultural expansion to growth through
intensification wlth emphasis on sustainable resource management and
environmental protection. The government is beset by short- and medaum-term
problems in the rural areas concerning the increasingly vocal and frequently
militant landless peasants. Whilst the resolution of these problems is
important, the Bank's key role is to assist the Goverment to plan
strategically for the long term to increase agricultural productivity on the
basis of a data base for natural resource and land use planning and improved
services to the sector.



-4-
9.    The development potential of the agricultural sector (in terms of
under-utilize'2 resources, available technology and markets) is more than
sufficient to allow the sector to continue to Flay an important role in
economic growth and development. However, the "easy" phase of Paraguay's
agricultural development is coming to an end. A fundamental structural change
is required from the present policy of continuous expansion of the
agricultural frontier to a strategy of intensification of resource use thrcigh
sustainable agitcultural practices. There is an urgent need to develop land
information systems to provide the basic data necessary to formulate and
implement a long-term strategy and to improve property rights in order to
achieve long-term changes in land-use practices.  A significant change in
priorities in public sector expenditure, both capital and recurrent, will be
required, if rational and sustainable growth is to be achieved in future.
10.  The rural cadastre and Geographic Information System (GIS) proposed in
this project would be the first, crucial step towards meeting these
objectives, and they would be complemented by a further intervention within
1-2 years aimed at the consolidation of smallholder settlements, investments
in infrastructure, environmental protection and institutional strengthening in
the Eastern Region (specifically, the Departments of Alto Parana and the north
of Itapfia), which is agriculturally the most productive and dynamic part of
the country. Bank involvement in the conception and preparation of this
project has already oeen a catalyst in the definition of a new approach to the
use of natural resources in Paraguay. Though still at a very early stage,
this approach is the only realistic hope of sustaining the growth of output in
the long term and of mitigating the potentially disastrous migration of
landless and impoverished people into the urban sector. The project would
introduce activities and systems requiring a much higher level of technical
expertise than has hitherto been deployed in the implementing agencies. It
would also support detailed policy studies to define more clearly and help
implement the govetnment's agricultural policy. It is thus an ideal candidate
for the combination of technical, policy and financial assistance typically
provided by the Bank.
11.   Proiect Objectives:    The project would:  (a) improve the Government's
information base, as a means of raising its effectiveness in: (i) land
titling; (ii) the long-range planning of natural resource management;
(iii) the prov*i±on of services to agriculture; and (iv) raising fiscal
revenue from the sector; and (b) provide a basis for strengthening the
institutions responsible for land settlement and for natural resource
management and protection. The project would be part of a phased strategy to
strengthen basic agricultural services.
12.   Proiect Descriptio:    The project would have three main components:
(a) the creation and implementation of a multi-purpose rural cadastre for the
Eastern Region (which covers 402 of Paraguay but contains virtually all of the
soils with agricultural potential and 98% of the population) and part of the
Western Region (the Chaco). The total cost of this component would be US$38.3
million, of which the foreign exchange cost would be US$30.7 million; (b) the
establishment of a GIS as the basis for land use classification (plan de
ordenamiento territorial) and its associated legal and policy studies. This



-5-
.,mponant would cost US$2.1 million, of which the foreign exchange cost would
be US$0.7 million; and (c) studies aimed at -.he rationalization of land use
and the strengthening of institutions involved with natural resource
management, including: (i) an analysis of the structure, objectives, ar.d
capacity of the main public sector institutions in the agricultural sector,
including the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (NAG) and its
dependencies, an; the formulation of reco=mendations for change; (ii) a
detailed anulysis of tha existing system of land titling, axA the formulation
of proposals for improvement based on the new cadastre; (iii) an analysis of
government policies affecting land use practices, especially settlement,
roads, credit and protection of indigenous communities, and recommendations
for change; (iv) a detailed analysis of the legal framework and drafting of
environmental legislation and regulations, where required, including the
environmental and health codes, aimed at improving the role of both the public
and private sectors in promoting rational land use and ordenamiento
territorial; and (v) a study of the role of indigenous people in natural
resource management. Sfhe studies component would cost US$0.7 million, of
which the foreign exchange cost would be US$0.6 million. The total project
cost over five years would be US$41.1 million, including price and physical
contingencies of US$3.9 million, of which the Bank would finance 70Z.
Retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million is provided for goods and
consultant services. The estimated costs and financing plan are shown in
Schedule A.
13. The rural cadastre component would be implemented in three phases:
(a) the compilation of existing data and production of a provisional property
listing; (b) the establishment of a new geodetic grid, acquisition of new
aerial photography, interpretation of remote sensing imagery, production of
orthophoto maps, in-field cadastral surveying, procurement of data processing
equipment and establishment of the information system; and (c) the creation of
the final cadastre, including the definitive parcel file and property listing,
proparty revaluation and property tax collection, and the adoption of
procedures for keeping the sadastre up-to-date. This work would be undertaken
by a Project Coordination and Management Unit (UTAP) to be set up in the
National Cadastral Service (SNC) of the Ministry of Finance (MH), assisted by
the local office of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The work
on the GIS and associated land use data base would be administered by the
Sub-Secretariat for Natural Resources and the Environment (SSRNMA) in the NAG.
Initial work on a unified soils map, land capability map and forest cover map,
which would form the first level of information of the GIS, is about to start
under a Japanese PHRD Grant administered and executed by the Bank. Access to
the GI$ would be made available via computer terminal to those public and
private sector bodies with a legitimate interest in the system; these bodies
would be represented on a permanent National Coordinating Committee for the
GIS and ordenamiento territorial. The studies on land use issues and on
institutional strengthening would be coordinated and supervised by the
Technical Cabinet (GT) of MAG, and the study of land titling would be
coordinated and supervised by SNC.
14. The amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement and the proposed
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group operat.tons in Paraguay are



- 6 -
shown in Schedules C and D, respectively. The Staff Appraisal Report
No. 10102-PA, dated February 19, 1992, is attached.
15.  Agreed Actions.  Agreement was reached between the GOP and the Bank on:
(a) the draft Decree and Resolution which would regulate the SNC and the UTAP,
respectively; (b) mechanisms to allow full-time working by specific SNC staff;
(c) the contents and scope of the draft technical services agreement to be
entered into between the GOP and UNDP; (d) the scope of work, work programs,
and terms of reference for the studies; a review of their recommendations at
the end of the s-.cond year and of their implementation at the end of the
fourth year; (e) the texts of the Inter-Institutional Agreements (convenios)
and Agreed Plans of Action governing the relationships between the SNG and
other institutions during implementation of the project; (f) the schedules of
monitorable actions; and (g) the terms of reference for the long-term
supervisory consultants.
16.  Before effectiveness of the proposed loan, the following cond4tions
would be met by the Borrower; (a) the legal instruments regulating the SNC and
the UTAP would have entered into effect; (b) the UTAP would be established and
its Director appointed; (c) the agreement between GOP and UNDP would be signed
and would be in effect; (d) the design and implementation of the SNC/UTAP
accounting system would be completed; and (e) the convenios and Agreed Plans
of Action would have been signed and would be in effect.
17.   Proiect Benefits:  The project would provide the basic data and
information necessary to define and implement a more effective role for the
public sector in providing services and infrastructural investments for
agricultural development. It would also enhance the Government's ability to
regulate the exploitation of natural resources and to limit environmental
degradation. The private sector would alco benefit in the long run from a
clearer definition of agricultural land capability, regularization of land
titles and improvement of property rights, and improved access to support
services. The infonmation to be acquired under the project is necessary, but
not sufficient, to promote sustainable agriculture within environmental
constraints, and to achieve an increase and diversification of production via
the uptake of improved technology. The project would be part of a strategy to
strengthen basic agricultural services. It is also a necessary component in
raising the fiscal revenue contribution of the sector. On the institutional
side, the project would strengthen: (a) the SNC, which would be responsible
for -he development and maintenance of the cadsstre; (b) the SSRNMA, which
would be responsible for the maintenance, expansion and use of the GIS; and
(c) through the program of studies, the broader public sector apparatus in
agriculture, including the MAG and the IBR.
18. Direct benefits would come from an improvement in tax coilection, which
represents a transfer payment from the owners and users of land to the
government. Indirect benefits would come from changes in the efficiency of
use of proeuctive factors, and particularly the use of land, which would
result from the change in strategy for which the cadastre and GIS are key
inputs.



- 7 -
19.   4sks and UMjertaintv:  The experience w'th the 1974 USAID cadastral
project, which was unable to meet all its goals, demonstrates tho importance
of political support for the use of the cadastre as an instrument of tax and
other policy. The work done on almost 92,000 km2 remained as hand-written
index cards and cadastral maps, without the incorporation of new cadastral
nomenclature or computerization. The information is useful and would be
"recuperated" in the first phase of the project, but it has become somewhat
out-dated by the development of agriculture in the Eastern Region.
20. To avoid this or a similar fate, the project would achieve specific
preliminary results before achieving the full development of the cadastre.
The transitory approach to be used, employing the sworn declaration
("declaraci§n lurada") exercise and the gradual adjustment of fiscal land
values to their market values, has been designed to avoid unacceptable
pressures on the project. However, large land-owners would see their
interests threatened as the rial size of holdings is revealed and tax bills
increase as the result of revaluation and the progressivity of tax rates
established in law. Despite this risk, the highest authorities of government
have expressed their strong commitment to resolving the problem of the lack of
a cadastre, providing the basis for the resolution of problems in land titling
and increasing tax revenues.
21. Institutional weakness is a recognized risk. The GOP is attempting to
address the issue simultaneously in a number of key areas (e.g., with the
reorganization of the MH). The project would require a two-way flow of
information with certain institutions which would be provided for in the
establishment of convenios and Agreed Plans of Action to be established prior
to the first phase of the project. The training needs of the institutions
have been incorporated and the incremental budgetary requirements have been
made explicit in the project costs.
22. Environment: The project would have a positive impact on the environmevt
in the medium to long term. The key environmental issues in Paraguay concern
the appropriate use of natural resources and the sustainability of
agricultural production systems. The improvement of the Government's
knowledge base about land, its ownership and present use is a necessary
condition for the definition of strategy and policy in natural resource
management. The project would represent an essential first step in this
direction.
23. Recommendation: I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that it be approved by
the Executive Directors.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19, 1992



-8-
Schedule A
PARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Est..ated Coste:
Conponent                       '.ocal         Forein      Total
------------US3$ million ---------_
A. Cadastre
Coordinating Unit                  1.3            1.8           3.1
Systems Office                     1.2            0.7           1.9
Cadastral Mapping                  0.2           18.5          18.7
Cadastral Surveying                1.4            5.5           6.9
Training                            -             0.2           0.2
Cadastral Operations               1.1            0.3           1.4
Valuation Operations               1.2            0.2           1.4
Parcel List and File               0.3            0.1           0.4
Declarations                       0.4            0.1           0.5
Sub-total                                  7.1           27.4          34.5
B.  Geographic Information System          1.4            0.7           2.1
C.  Studies                                0.1            0.5           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                        8.6           28.6          37.2
Physical Contingencies                     0.2            2.2           2.4
Price Contingencies                        0.2            1.3           1.5
Total Project Cost                         9.0           32.1          41.1
Financina Plan:
Goverrment of Paraguay               6.2            1.4           7.6
IBRD                                 2.5           26.5          29.0
Cofinancing:
Inter-American Geodetic Survey    -               3.6           3.6
GOJapan                            0.5            0.4           0.9
9.2           31.9         41.1



-9-
Schedule B
ARAGUAY
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Proeurement _ethods and Disbursements
Procurement:
Procurement Method
ICB     LCB     Other   UBF1'   Total
1. Works
1.1  Aerial Photography          16.6    --       --              16.6
and Orthophoto maps
2. Goods                             0.5    0.7      0.9     --        2.1
3. Services Contracts:
Wadastral Survey               --      --       8.4              8.4
Geodetics                      --      --      --       3.7      3.7
4. Consultants                      --      --       2.8    --         2.8
5. Other (Operating Costs)          -_      __      __       7.5       7.5
Total                               17.1    0.7    12.1    11.2       41.1
(Z Bank financed)                   (100)   (100)   (93)    (_-)      (71)
IBRD Disbursements
Cate-or                  AmunIt                2 of exoenditure
(US$ million)
Works                    16.6                           100
Goods, materials          1.7                           100
& equipment
Consultant gervicns       2.3                           100
& train'alg
Other services            8.4                           100
(cadastral survey)
Total                    29.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursements (USS million):
IBRD FY        19921'      1993         1994        1995         1996       1997
Annual:         1.0        16.6          1.2         5.0          3.7        1.5
Cumulative:     1.0        17.6         18.8        23.8         27.5       29.0
11    NBF  Von-Bank Pinanced.
2/    Includes initial deposit in the Spocial Account of USS 1.0 million,
recovered in FY97.



- 10 -
Schedule C
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Timetable of _eX Processing Events
1.   rreparation Period:                   12 months (April 1990-March 1991)
2.    Prepared by:                         FAO/IBRD CP, followed by GTIONCAP/MH
3.    First IBIRD Mission:                 November, 1989
4.   Appraisal Mission Departure:          June 30, 1991
S.   Negotiations:                         January 13, 1992
6.    Planned Date of Effectivenes:        Apzil  1992



- 11 -
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
STATET OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1991)
PARAGUAY
Loan or                                                             Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal
Number     Year      Borrower      Purpose                          Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
(US$ lillion)
Fully disbursed loans (22) and credits (8)                          293.5      49.8         0.0
2087       1982      Paraguay      Area Development                  31.0         -        15.6
2140       1982      Paraguay      Highways                          46.0         -         0.0
2141       1982      Paraguay      Rural Developmeht                 21.4         -         5.8
2372       1984      Paraguay      Livestock Development             23.8        -          0.0
2373       1984      Paraguay      Vocational Training                5.0        -          0.9
Total                                                               420.7      49.8
of which has been repaid                                      220.1        9.2
Total now outstanding                                               200.6      40.5
Amount sold                                                           1.3
of which has been repaid                                         1.3
Total now held by Bank & IDA                                        199.3      40.5
Total undisbursed                                                                          22.4
October 17, 1991



- 12 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
STATEMENT O1 IFC. INiSTIENTS
(as of September 30, 1991)
PARAGUAY
Original Commitments
(USS million)
Year       Obligor                  Type of Business                   Loan    Equity  Total
1975       Finap S.A.              Lumber Products                     4.4      1.0      5.4
1981/86    Empress Hotelera
Encarnaci6n S.A.
(MEESA)                 Tourism                            0.3       1.2      1.5
1982       Sociedad Agricola
Golondrina S.A.         Agriculture                         5.3      2.0      7.3
1986       Western Agri
Producci6n S.R.L        Agriculture                         0.8       -       0.8
Total Gross Commitments                                                 10.8    4.2      15.0
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments
and Sales                                                    7.9    4.2       12.1
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                       2.9      -        2.9
Total Uadisbursed
October 17, 1991



MAP SECTION



r) U I H
_ _                                                               |       \.\ /                                                    hA M F R I C A
i,                        H    A    CR/
*1                       _ _                                        fr  ^t
| 9 \_ ~~~~~~~~~~~A L T O )
/ Oo_*e_r4\                      1           P ~~~~~~~~A R A GU A 
/N U            E+A   A S U NC ION                               )w*            ..........§>C§..B   R   A   Z   I  L
BOQUE RON                       /
\                   j        \                               -: ~~~~~~~~~CONCEPCION            °      !
s f {~~~C    ft A jC  0t >2yA
'V        >  JE  S>/r
A/
-q                              
PARAGUAYAAZ
aTMW"A  SURFACED RO>ADS
-   MMtIV"D  "UFACED R'ADS UNDE CONSTUCXL                                                                       PA4 A4-
-GAAVEI I EARTH SUDFACED ROADS                                                                   a
RAHWAYS                                                                                           I
COUARENTR  BUDE *ARIES'I
INTERNATIONAL BUNDRIES
~~~_                      .z *6N],1        ' ,-                     - 4
- HE        RET EE  .      $   .A v4.                                                     5-,
._. VTEbIATKo4 TD.saES             {       51{          .        t 0 A Z A PA _o
.6sy                                                          <        N              tTAP  
?^                    ETT                                     A        C                   :                               /       t~~~~~~~~~~~~1-NT



IURD 23436
BOLl VIA
BR A  ZIL
PERU~~~~~AF
O M1A
OwuL Ijpui@A. OAf                                               R4 G N N.
ARGENTINA     ~     a
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R t  v
B             1991I0
PARAGUAY                        MUNaIb
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT 
AFRIAL PHOTOGRAPHY AND ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING
2P       ~~~AERIA PHC0OGRAPHY
1,I:60=00 FOR ORTHiOPHOTO MAPPING
AT 1:25,000
Z~]1:20,000 FOR ORTHOPHOIO MAPPING Of
-~~~JSMALL HOLDER PARCELS AT 1:5,000
SELECTED ROADS
o   SELECTED CMTES AND TOWNS
* NATtONAL cAPITALARGENTINA
IN4TERNA'TIONAL BOUNDARES
8   9   I   I   IRA ZI 
or ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ mw-BAI



IBRO 23436
B O  L I V I A                                      /7t£24
BOLIVIAB                                                                 LIV
A~~                                ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X  A  Z   
ERU
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 IVI
AREA
~   PMAP
OtuL Eupnto A. Om"y                                              $L
SARENTIN  POET
s     j^LPH>OORN°Fnft                        jl                               t  i A1au Xt
Dr. Pe"                 0
Salto 0.1 Guwird
PARAGUAY                        AMuZIN6
LAND USE RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY AND ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING
26-       ~~AERAL PHOTOORA"H:
____1:60,000 FOR ORTHOPHOTO MAPPING
AT 1:25,000
*         R~~Z~~1'~1 1:20,000 FOR ORTHOPHOlT MAPPING OF   . 
~~ ~SMALL MOWDER PARCELS AT 1:5,000/
RVERS
SELECrED ROADS
o   SELECTED CMiSs AND TOWNS
* NATIONALCAPITL                ARGENTINA
-INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
2W                                                       0    40  60   120  Ida
0ECESER 1991



