Page  1
                                                  April  21,  1993
Dr. Juan Jose Diaz Perez
Minister
Ministry of Finance
Palma y Chile
Asuncion,  Paraguay
            Re:   Land  Use  Rationalization  Project  (Ln. 3445-PA)
                  Loan  Effectiveness
Dear  Minister:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Paraguay (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated April 28, 1992.
      We are pleased to inform you that as a result of your request
and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend
the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.    Section 1.02 is hereby amended by:
     (i)    deleting the word "and" after the semi-colon in
            paragraph (m);
    (ii)    deleting the period after paragraph (n) and adding a
            semi-colon and the word "and" at the end of such
            paragraph; and
   (iii)    adding a new paragraph (o) which shall read as follows:
            "(o) "Action Plan" means the plan of action contained in
            the Aide Memoire dated April 17, 1993 and attached to a
            letter of the same date from the Director of SNC to the
            Bank.".
2.    A new section 3.08 is added to read as follows:
      "Section 3.08.  In order to implement the accounting system
      and administrative procedures of UCTAP and SNC, respectively,
      the Borrower shall carry out the Action Plan in accordance
      with its terms.".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this amendment letter in the spaces provided
below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts,
each of which shall be an original.  Upon your  confirmation please
return one fully executed original to us.
      The Loan Agreement and the provisions of this amendment letter
will become effective as of the date the Bank notifies the Borrower
in writing that the Bank has accepted the evidence required by
Section 12.01 of the General Conditions and has received one fully
executed original of this amendment letter.
                         Very truly yours,
                        /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                             Director
                       Country Department IV
          Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Page  2
   /s/ Juan Jose Diaz Perez
By
   Authorized Representative
