Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3445 PA
                (Land Use Rationalization Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 28, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3445 PA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   by agreement dated November 19, 1991 (the Japanese Grant
Agreement), the Government of Japan has agreed to make a grant (the
Japanese Grant) to the Borrower in the amount of one hundred thirty-
five million one hundred thousand yen (c135,100,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Japanese Grant Agreement; and
      (C)   the Borrower has been receiving technical assistance
from the Inter-American Geodetic Survey of the Defense Mapping
Agency (DMA) of the Government of the United States of America for
the purposes of establishing a new geodetic grid for Paraguay,
Page  2
pursuant to the agreement dated April 27, 1992, between the Borrower
and DMA (the DMA Agreement); and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "DAG" means Departamento de Agrimensura y Geodesia
(Surveying and Geodetic Department) of the Borrower's Ministry of
Public Works;
      (b)   "DGRP" means Direccion General de Registros Publicos
(General Directorate of the Property Register) of the Borrower's
Supreme Court;
      (c)   "DSGM" means Direccion del Servico Geografico Militar,
the Borrower's Directorate of the Military Geographic Service;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
      (e)   "GT/MAG" means Gabinete Tecnico (Technical Department)
of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
      (f)   "IBR" means Instituto de Bienestar Rural, the Borrower's
Rural Welfare Institute;
      (g)   "MAG" means Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
      (h)   "MH Law" means Ley No. 109, of January 6, 1992, which
approved a new structure for the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
created SNC;
      (i)   "Regulations" means the Presidential Decree and the
Minister of Finance's Resolution, satisfactory to the Bank,
approving SNC and UTAP's regulations, respectively, to be effective
as required in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "SNC" means Servicio Nacional de Catastro (National
Cadastral Service) of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "SSRNMA" means Sub-Secretaria de Estado de Recursos
Page  3
Naturales y Medio Ambiente (Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources and
the Environment) of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock;
      (m)   "UNDP Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, between the Borrower and the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) for the provision of technical assistance by UNDP in
connection with the staffing of UTAP and the hiring of consultants
for the Project, to be effective as required in Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement; and
      (n)   "UTAP" means Unidad Tenica de Apoyo al Proyecto (Project
Coordination and Management Unit), to be established pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-nine million dollars ($29,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in the Central Bank of Paraguay on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
Page  4
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, C (b) and D of
the Project through SNC, Part B of the Project through SSRNMA, and
Part C (a), (c), (d) and (e) of the Project through GT/MAG, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural, technical and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain,
during at least the execution of the Project, a technical unit
(UTAP) within SNC to coordinate and manage the activities to be
carried out under the Project and to assist SNC in the carrying out
of Parts A and C (b) of the Project, such unit: (a) to be staffed
with persons who shall have terms of reference, experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) to have an
accounting system and administrative procedures satisfactory to the
Page  5
Bank.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Parts A and B of the Project, carry out plans of action,
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) through SNC, with the cooperation of
IBR, to generate a cadastral register from the archives of IBR which
shall serve as the basis for the reorganization of the existing
agrarian register (Registro Agrario) in IBR; (ii) through SSRNMA,
with the cooperation of SNC, to consolidate a policy of agro-
ecological zoning (ordenamiento territorial) for a rational use of
the existing land, forest and water resources in the Borrower's
territory; and (iii) through SNC, with the cooperation of DAG, to
integrate the land surveying undertaken by DAG and its records with
that undertaken by SNC under Part A of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out Part A
of the Project, cause: (i) SNC to enter into operating arrangements
(convenios), satisfactory to the Bank, with: (A) DSGM, providing for
cooperation between SNC and DSGM in connection with the
establishment of Paraguay's new geodetic grid; and (B) with DGRP,
providing for cooperation between SNC and DGRP in the exchange of
information related to both urban and rural cadastres and to the
potential and actual use of land; and (ii) such operating
arrangements to be carried out in accordance with their terms.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the study and
policy analyses under Part C of the Project in accordance with the
scope of work, work program and terms of reference agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to the Borrower's obligations
under Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   not later than October 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, submit to the Bank, for approval, SNC's
and SSRNMA's plans for carrying out their Project activities during
the upcoming year;
      (b)   by January 31 and July 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, furnish to the Bank reports on the
progress of the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request;
      (c)   undertake together with the Bank, reviews of the
progress of the Project: (i) at the end of the second year after the
Effective Date, which shall also include a review of the
recommendations of the analyses and the study under Part C of the
Project; and (ii) at the end of the fourth year after the Effective
Date, which shall also include a review of: (A) the progress in the
implementation of the recommendations of such analyses and study;
(B) the Borrower's agriculture sector priorities; and (C) the
institutional development program for the Borrower's agriculture
sector.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause: (a) SNC to
assign to work in the Project such technical staff, in sufficient
number and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
necessary for the efficient carrying out of Parts A, C (b) and D of
the Project; and (b) such staff to work on a full-time basis
(regimen de dedicacion exclusiva) and to be paid salaries at levels
consistent with their responsibilities and qualifications.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than two years
after the Effective Date, present to the Bank a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the maintenance of the cadastre
referred to in Part A of the Project, such program to include the
funding requirements for such maintenance; and (b) carry out such
program, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, promptly after such
cadastre is implemented.
Page  6
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of SNC, UTAP, SSRNMA and
GT/MAG.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      (d)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b)
(ii) hereof, the Borrower shall ensure that the audit reports
referred to in such paragraph will include the auditors' opinion on
the compliance by the Borrower with the provisions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement regarding procurement of goods, works
and services.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain in SNC
an accounting system and administrative procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  7
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the MH Law or the Regulations shall have been amended or
abrogated;
      (b)   the UNDP Agreement shall have been amended or
terminated, or any of its provisions shall have been waived, without
the agreement of the Bank;
      (c)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of the Japanese Grant shall have been
                   suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                   in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement; and
      (d)   the DMA Agreement shall have been terminated, and no
alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
made by the Borrower to establish a new geodetic grid for Paraguay.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Regulations are in full force and effect;
      (b)   UTAP has been established, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, and the head of such unit has been
appointed;
      (c)   the UNDP Agreement has become effective;
      (d)   the accounting systems and administrative procedures of
UTAP and SNC, referred to in Sections 3.02 (b) and 4.02 of this
Agreement, respectively, have been implemented to the satisfaction
of the Bank; and
      (e)   the plans of actions and operating arrangements referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) and (b), respectively, have been entered into
by the respective parties thereto.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
Page  8
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Regulations are in full
force and effect.
      Section 6.03. The date July 28, 1992 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Chile y Palma
            Asuncion, Paraguay
                                           Telex:
                                             44329
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                         By /s/ Juan Jose Diaz Perez
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     16,600,000        100%
(2) Goods                      1,700,000        100%
(3) Consultants'              10,700,000        100%
    services
                              __________
         TOTAL                29,000,000
                              ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
Borrower's information base, as a means of raising the Borrower's
effectiveness in: (i) land titling; (ii) long-range planning of
natural resource protection; (iii) providing services to agri-
culture; and (iv) raising revenue from the agricultural sector; and
(b) to provide a basis for strengthening the institutions respon-
sible for land settlement and for natural resource management and
protection.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rural Cadastre
      Establishment of a complete, multi-purpose rural cadastre for
the eastern region of the Borrower's territory (about 160,000 square
kilometers) and the south of the Department of President Hayes in
the western region of the Borrower's territory (about 10,000 square
kilometers), covering about 442,000 parcels of land, and consoli-
dation of the archive containing the judicial aspects related to
title and ownership of parcels of land, their physical charac-
teristics and their map representations. This will require, inter
alia:
      (a)   compilation of existing information on land holding and
use;
      (b)   complete aerial photography and map coverage;
      (c)   training of SNC's staff;
      (d)   consolidation of a listing of owners and occupiers of
land;
Page  10
      (e)   a permanent system of property revaluation;
      (f)   utilization of data processing equipment and other
necessary instruments and equipment by SNC; and
      (g)   installation of a permanent information system for the
cadastre to be used for purposes of tax administration, land
distribution and land use policy.
Part B:     Geographic Information System
      Establishment of a dynamic information system and data base to
formulate and implement a strategy of agro-ecological zoning
(ordenamiento territorial), designed to encourage appropriate
practices of natural resource management which will enable a
sustainable agricultural development. This will require:
      (a)   creation of an inventory of existing natural resource
information and socio-economic data;
      (b)   carrying out of a reconnaissance study of soils mapping,
current land use and natural forest cover, and development of land
capability maps at a scale of 1:250,000;
      (c)   installation of the hardware and software of the system
(such as computer facilities, map digitalizers, plotters, the system
software package compatible with the relational data base software
to be used in the rural cadastre) and the terminals and their
peripherals for the users of the system;
      (d)   training of SSRNMA's staff;
      (e)   incorporation of the results of the study and the maps
referred to in (b) above into the system as its first level of basic
data;
      (f)   definition and establishment of priorities with respect
to those zones of the Borrower's territory which require
progressively more detailed work on natural resource analysis and
socio-economic data collection;
      (g)   detailed analysis of such priorities and its
incorporation into the system;
      (h)   detailed studies for the establishment of the legal and
institutional framework for the implementation of the agro-
ecological zoning (ordenamiento territorial); and
      (i)   monitoring and evaluation of the system.
Part C:     Study and Policy Analyses
      (a)   Analysis of the structure, objective and capacity of the
Borrower's main institutions in the agriculture sector, including
MAG and its dependencies, and recommendations for improvement
thereof.
      (b)   Analysis of the existing system of land titling, and
recommendations for improvement thereof based on the new cadastre
included in Part A hereof.
      (c)   Analysis of the Borrower's policies affecting land use
practices, and recommendations for improvement thereof.
      (d)   Analysis of the legal framework regarding environment
and health, and drafting of proposals for environmental and health
legislation and regulations aimed at improving the role of both the
private and the public sector in promoting rational land use and
agro-ecological zoning (ordenamiento territorial).
      (e)   A study of the role of indigenous people in natural
resource management.
Page  11
Part D:     Financial Controls
      Technical assistance in strengthening of financial controls,
including external audits.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1997                          530,000
June 15, 1998                              550,000
December 15, 1998                          570,000
June 15, 1999                              595,000
December 15, 1999                          615,000
June 15, 2000                              640,000
December 15, 2000                          665,000
June 15, 2001                              690,000
December 15, 2001                          715,000
June 15, 2002                              745,000
December 15, 2002                          775,000
June 15, 2003                              805,000
December 15, 2003                          835,000
June 15, 2004                              865,000
December 15, 2004                          900,000
June 15, 2005                              935,000
December 15, 2005                          970,000
June 15, 2006                            1,010,000
December 15, 2006                        1,045,000
June 15, 2007                            1,085,000
December 15, 2007                        1,130,000
June 15, 2008                            1,175,000
December 15, 2008                        1,220,000
June 15, 2009                            1,265,000
December 15, 2009                        1,315,000
June 15, 2010                            1,365,000
December 15, 2010                        1,420,000
June 15, 2011                            1,470,000
December 15, 2011                        1,530,000
June 15, 2012                            1,570,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
Page  12
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods (other than the aerial photography laboratory) estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Part A.1 hereof and to the first two contracts to
be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
Page  13
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part D:     Standard Bidding Documents
      All procurement of goods and works, to be undertaken pursuant
to the procedures referred to in Parts A.1 and B.1 hereof, shall
take place on the basis of standard bidding documents approved by
the Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants  Guidelines), except
that prior review by the Bank pursuant to paragraphs 2.04, 2.09,
2.13, 2.21, 2.39, 2.41 and 2.44 of said Consultants Guidelines shall
not apply to contracts with individual consultants costing the
equivalent of $30,000 or less and that such contracts shall follow
a model approved by the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Page  14
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                      Implementation Program
      The following activities related to the Project execution will
have to be completed by the dates indicated below:
Part A of the Project
1.    Appointment of the UTAP's staff (other than the head of UTAP):
by June 30, 1992.
2.    Analysis of available data on land holding and use: by March
31, 1993.
3.    Implementation of the system of sworn declarations
(declaraciones juradas) for the purposes of valuation of real
estate: by August 31, 1993.
4.    Implementation of the information system to consolidate the
existing Taxpayer Listing (Padron de Contribuyentes) and the system
to generate the Provisional Parcel File (Legajo Parcelario
Provisorio):  by November 30, 1993.
5.    Completion of the location and monumentation of Paraguay'sgeodetic control 
points: by July 31, 1992.
6.    Recalculation of datum for Paraguay's new geodetic grid: by
September 30, 1992.
7.    Aerial photography works:
            (i)    Contract award: by June 30, 1992;
           (ii)    Installation of aerial photography laboratory:
                   by June 30, 1992; and
          (iii)    Delivery of photographs: by October 31, 1992.
8.    Orthophoto map production:
            (i)    Preparation of terms of reference for, and
                   prequalification of, contractors: by June 30,
                   1992;
           (ii)    Bid document preparation: by July 31, 1992;
          (iii)    Contract award: by October 31, 1992; and
           (iv)    Completion of the delivery of orthophoto maps:
                   by December 31, 1993.
9.    Cadastral survey: by December 31, 1996.
Page  16
10.   Acquisition of data processing equipment:
            (i)    Preparation of terms of reference for suppliers:
                   by November 30, 1992;
           (ii)    Bid document preparation: by January 31, 1993;
          (iii)    Contract award: by March 31, 1993; and
           (iv)    Delivery, installation and testing of equipment:
                   by June 30, 1993.
11.   Development of software and information system training: by
October 31, 1993.
12.   SNC's staff training: by October 31, 1993.
13.   Transfer of cadastral information from cadastral survey to
information system: by June 30, 1997.
14.   Establishment of SNC's office in Paraguay's western region: by
June 30, 1994.
15.   Establishment of the technical group in SNC to provide the
link with the geographic information system: by November 30, 1992.
16.   Implementation of the information system on cadastral data: by
June 30, 1994.
17.   Implementation of the definitive land parcel data file: by
September 30, 1994.
18.   Definitive revaluation of land parcels: by September 30, 1994.
19.   Enhancement of the system for collection of property tax: by
September 30, 1993.
Part B of the Project
1.    Reconnaissance soil survey (basic and thematic map
production): by January 31, 1993.
2.    Semi-detailed soil survey (basic and thematic map production):
by January 31, 1994.
3.    Design of specifications, acquisition of computers,
peripherals and software, and installation thereof: by September 30,
1992.
4.    Input of soils data and maps into the geographic information
system: by December 31, 1995.
5.    Completion of associated studies: by December 31, 1992.
Part C of the Project
1.    Analysis under Part C (a):
            (i)    Diagnosis and discussions: by October 31, 1992;
                   and
           (ii)    Recommendations: by April 30, 1993.
2.    Analysis under Part C (b):
            (i)    Diagnosis of existing land titling system: by
                   November 30, 1992;
           (ii)    Specification of alternatives for improvement in
                   the system: by March 31, 1993; and
          (iii)    Detailed design of the land titling process,
                   including cost estimates and timing: by June 30,
Page  17
                   1993.
3.    Analysis under Part C (c): by December 31, 1992.
4.    Analysis under Part C (d): by December 31, 1992.
5.    Study under Part C (e): by December 31, 1992.
