                                            Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 30463-CL




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                        PROPOSEDLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$50.26 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                             FORAN

           INFRASTRUCTUREFORTERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                      NOVEMBER 19,2004




Finance,Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country ManagementUnit-LCC7C
LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be used by recipients only inthe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                                          (Exchange RateEffectiveNovember23,2004)
                                                   CurrencyUnit = ChileanPesos(CLP)
                                                            CLP590 = US$1

                                                                  FISCALYEAR
                                                        January 1             - December31

                                              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ADIS    DevelomentIndigenous Areas                                              MOF     Ministry of Finance
APL     Adaptable ProgramLending                                                MOPTT    Ministerio de Obras Priblicas, de Transportesy de Telecomunicaciones
                                                                                         (Ministry of Public Works, Transportand Telecommunications)
APR     Agua Potable Rural potable Rural Water)                                 MOU     Memorandumof Understanding
BIP     Banco lntegrado de Proyecto (IntegratedProjectBank)                     NCB      National Competitive Bidding
CAS     Counay AssistanceStrategy                                               NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
CASEN   Householdsurvey of socialand economic characteristics                   NPV      Net PresentValue
CGR     Contraloria General de la Repriblica (GeneralComptroller's Office)      O&M      OperationsandMaintenance
CNE     Comisidn Nacional de Energia (National Energy Commission)               ONG      Organizaciones No Gubemamentales (Non-GovernmentalOrganizations)
CONADI  National Councilfor IndigenousDevelopment                               PAD      ProjectAppraisal Document
CONAMA  Comisidn Nacional de Medio Ambiente                                     PAP      ProjectAffected Person
        (National EnvironmentalCommission
CORE    Consejo Regional (RegionalCouncil)                                      PCN      ProjectConcept Document
COREMA  CONAMA's RegionalOffices                                                PCU      ProjectCoordination Unit
CPAR    Country ProcurementAssessment Review                                    PMDT     Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial
                                                                                         (RegionalDevelopmentFrameworkPlans)
CQ      ConsultantsQualifications                                               PER      Programa de Electrificacidn Rural (Rural Elecmcity Commission)
DACG    Direccion de Analisis y Conrrol de Gestion (Directorateof               PHRD     Policy and HumanResourcesDevelopmentFund
        Analysis and ManagementControlof the Regional Governments)
DDR     Direccidn de Desarrollo Regional                                        PIC      ProjectImplementationCommittee
        (Directorateof RegionalDevelopment)
DOH     Direccid de Obras Hidraulicas                                           pm       ProjectInformationDocument
         (Directorateof Hydraulic Works)
DV      Direccidn de Vialidad (Directorateof Roads)                             PLADECO Plan de Desarrollo Comunal (Municipal DevelopmentPlan)
EA      EnvironmentalAssessment                                                 PMB      Programa Mejoramienfo de Barrios (NeighborhoodImprovement Program)
EBI     Esradisticas Bdsicas de lnformacidn (Basic InformationStatistics)       PMDT      Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial
                                                                                          (Territorial DevelopmentFrameworkPlan)
ERD     Estraregia Regional de Desarrollo (RegionalDevelopmentStrategy)         PROFIM    Municipal DevelopmentProject
ESW     EconomicandSector Work                                                  PSR       ProjectStatus Report
FDT     Fondo de Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones                           QCBS      Quality andCost BasedSelection
        (TelecommunicationsDevelopmentFund)
FM      Financial Management                                                    RAP       ResettlementAction Plan
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report                                              RP       ResettlementPolicy
FNDR    Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional                                    RFP      FullResettlementPlan
        (National Fundfor RegionalDevelopment)
FNDR-ER FNDR RuralElectrification Project(w. IDB financing)                      RPF      ResettlementPolicy Framework
FOSIS   Fondo de Solidaridad e Inversidn Social                                  SBD      StandardBidding Documents
        (Fundfor Solidarity and SocialInvestment)
GORE    Gobiemos Regionales (RegionalGovernments)                                SERCOTECServicio de Cooperacidn Tecnica
                                                                                          (TechnicalCooperationService, Min. of Econ.)
HDM      HighwayDevelopmentandManagement                                         SEREMI   Secretaria Regional Ministerial (Regional Ministerial Secreteriat)
IADB     Inter.-American DevelopmentBank                                         SERPLAC Secretaria Regional Ministerial de Planificacidn y Coordinacidn
(IDB)                                                                                     (RegionalSecretariatof the Ministry Planningand Coordination)
ICB      InternationalCompetitive Bidding                                        S I L    SpecificInvestmentLoan
IC1      InformationandCommunicationsInfrasaucture                               SPA      SocialImpactand Participatory Assessmnt
ICT      Informationand Telecommunications Technology                            SME      Small andMedium ScaleEnterprise
IMO      IndependentMonitoringOrganization                                       S I N    SisremaNacional de Inversiones (National InvestmentSystem)
INDAP    Instituto Nacional para el Desarrollo Agropecuario                      SOE      Statement of Expenditures
         (Agriculturaland Livestock DevelopmentNational Institute)
INE      Instituto Nacional de Esradisricas (National Institute of Statistics)   SUBDERE Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo
                                                                                           (Subsecretariatof Regionaland Adminisaative Development)
IPDP     IndigenousPeoples DevelopmentPlan                                       SUBTEL    Subsecretaria de Telecomunicaciones
                                                                                           (Subsecretariatof Telecommunications)
I SAR    Inversidn Sectorial de Asignacidn Regional                              TOR       Terms of Reference
         (SectoralInvestmentfor RegionalAssignment)
ISDS     IntergratedSafeguardsData Sheet                                         UGD       Managementand DevelopmentUnit
LIL      Learning andInnovation Loan                                             UGR       Unidad de GerenciamientoRegional (Regional ManagementUnit)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation                                               UT / TU   Unidades Ttcnicas (TechnicalUnits)
MIDEPLAN Minisrerio de Planificacidn y Cooperacidn                               WB        World Bank
         (Minisay of Planning& Cooperation)


                                                   Vice President:               Davidde Ferranti
                                                 Country Director:               Axel vanTrotsenburg
                                        ActingSector Director:                   John Henry Stein
                                                  SectorManager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen
                                                     SectorLeader:               JuanGaviria
                                          Task TeamLeader(s):                    Aurelio MenendezI Jennifer Sara

                                                                                               FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                 CHILE
                            ChileInfrastructurefor TerritorialDevelopment

                                                             CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                     Page


    A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                               ..............................................................  4
     1. Countryandsector issues .................................................................................................... 4
     2. Rationale for Bank involvement..........................................................................................                       5
     3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.....................................................                                  6


    B.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                           ..............................................................................................   6

      1. Lendinginstrument..............................................................................................................                6
     2.  Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                                6
      3. Project components.............................................................................................................. 7
     4. Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design ............................................................                                 7
      5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection...............................................................                                9


    C.    IMPLEMENTATION                     .......................................................................................................    9
      1.  Institutional and implementation arrangements...................................................................                              9
      2.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ................................................................                                13
      3.  Sustainability .....................................................................................................................         14
      4.  Critical risksand possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              15
      5. Loadcredit conditions and covenants ............................................................................... 16


    D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                         ..............................................................................................     17
      1.  Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                       17
      2.  Technical............................................................................................................................ 18
      3.  Fiduciary............................................................................................................................        18
      4.  Social .................................................................................................................................     19
      5.  Environment ......................................................................................................................           22
      6.  Safeguardpolicies..............................................................................................................              22
      7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                        23

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                     .
without World Bank authorization                             .

                                                                                                                                          24
Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring..............................................................................
Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background.................................................................
                                                                                                                                          35
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description.......................................................................................... 39

Annex 5: Project Costs .................................................................................................................. 50
Annex 5: Project Costs .................................................................................................................. 49


Annex 7: Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements.............................................
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements....................................................................................... 51
                                                                                                                                          59
Annex 8: Procurement...................................................................................................................   63
Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis..................................................................................                  70
                                                                                                                                          79
Annex 1O.C. Indigenous PeoplesPlan...........................................................................................
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues...............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                          83
                                                                                                                                         104
Annex 12: Documentsin the Project File....................................................................................
Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                         106
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits .................................................................................               108
Annex 14: Country at a Glance ...................................................................................................        109


Map IBRDNo 33707
              .

                                             CHILE
             CHILE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT
                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                             LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
                                             LCSFT

late: November 3,2004                             Team Leader: Aurelio MenendedJennifer Sara
2ountry Director: Axel van Trotsenburg            Sectors: General water, sanitation and flood
sector Managermirector: Jose LuisIrigoyen         protection sector (35%);Roads and highways
                                                  (30%);General information and communications
                                                  sector (25%);General energy sector (10%)
                                                  Themes: Rural services and infrastructure
                                                  (P);Rural policies and institutions (P);Rural
                                                  markets (S);Other rural development (S)
'roject ID: PO76807                               Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                  Assessment
,ending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan      Safeguard screening category: Limited impact


XI Loan     [ ] Credit   [ 3 Grant   [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:

Tor Loans/Credits/Others:
rota1Bank financing (US$m.): 50.26




RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                              70.32              19.94                 90.26

Borrower:
Government of Chile, Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago
Chile
Tel: (56) 2 473-2517
mpv@dipres.cl

ResponsibleAgency:
SUBDERE
Julio Ruiz, Jefe Division Desarrollo Reg
Zenteno 234
Santiago
Chile
Tel: 562 636 3625
julio.ruiz @subdere.cl

Project implementation period: Start January 1,2005 End: June 30,2009
Expected effectiveness date: June 30,2005
Expected closing date: June 30, 2010

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                            [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                            [ ]Yes [XI N o
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                            [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                            [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5 (Some risks are moderate.)                                                 [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Ref.
PAD D.7                                                                                 [XIYes [ 3 N o


Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The project development objective i s to increase the effective and productive use of sustainable
infrastructure services by poor rural communities in selected territories of the regions of Coquimbo,
Maule, BioBio, Araucania, and Los Lagos (and any other region as may be proposed by the Borrower
and agreed to by the Bank).

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

 1. Participatory Territorial Planning: this component will assist local stakeholders and regional
government agencies to: (a) prepare in prioritized rural territories in the five eligible regions
development framework plans, (b) identify demands for improved infrastructure services, and (c)
monitor progress with plan implementation.

  2. Infrastructure Service Delivery: this component will support: (a) feasibility and design studies of
 subproject proposals to submit for financing under this component, (b) rehabilitation of rural roads,
 and construction, rehabilitation and expansion of rural water, sanitation, electricity and ICT
 infrastructure, (c) supervision, of the mentioned works, and (d) studies and support for the
 establishment and strengthening of local service providers to operate, maintain and administer the
 services to achieve quality and sustainability.

  3. Institutional Strengthening: this component will support: (a) project coordination units at national
 and regional levels, (b) implementation of studies and capacity building to strengthen policies and
 institutions in areas of territorial planning and rural infrastructure service delivery (including those
 related to the application of social and environmental safeguards), and (c) project monitoring,
 evaluation and learning as a contribution to national level expansion of the program.




                                                     2

 Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
     0   Environmental Assessment
     0   Involuntary Resettlement
     0   Indigenous Peoples
     0   Cultural Property
 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
 Ref. PAD C.7
 Boardpresentation:
 None
 Loadcredit effectiveness:
I
 (a) The SUBDERE has prepared and adopted the Project Operational Manual in terms and scope
 acceptable to the Bank.

 (b) The Project National Directorate, consisting at least of representatives from the SUBDERE,
 Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications (MOPTT),
 MIDEPLAN, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Economy, has been officially constituted
 through a legal document acceptable to the Bank.

 (d) The SUBDERE establishes the Management andDevelopment Unit (Unidad de Gerenciamientoy
 Desarrollo) in a form and with the number of qualified staff acceptable to the Bank.
 Covenants applicable to project implementation:
 Covenant:

 The borrower should, not later than a date two years after the Effective Date of the Loan, furnish to the
 Bank for its review and comments, the new methodology developed for the technical, social and
 economic evaluation of subprojects based on a territorial approach, and thereafter test and apply such
 methodology in the evaluation of subprojects, as appropriate.

 Conditions of disbursements for subprojects:
 Before submitting first withdrawal applications for a subproject in a Region, the SUBDERE has
 signed the Eligible Region Agreement (Convenio de Trabajo) with the relevant Regional Government
 and, through that Regional Government, the UGR has been established and staffed with personnel
 with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                    3


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

Over the past decade, the Chilean government has made impressive strides in economic growth,
poverty reduction and increasing access of the poor to public services, including in rural areas.
Infrastructure services are essential to ensure all Chileans have sufficient opportunities for
achieving basic standards of living, generating income and rising out of poverty. Despite the
highlyurbanized nature of the country, 2 million Chileans reside inruralareas, of whom 500,000
live inpoverty and many lack basic services.

The Chilean government has made a significant commitment to expanding rural infrastructure
services as a means to address poverty and income inequality in the rural space. This has taken a
variety o f forms: the creation of rural infrastructure programs and expertise within technical
ministries, the establishment of specialized funding streams, and applying versatility to the
selection of service delivery options.    The sectoral agencies have gathered the human and
financial resources necessary for planning, evaluating and implementing rural infrastructure
projects of high standardized quality. Over the past five years, the government has invested
approximately one billion dollars inrural potable water, electricity, roads, and public telephones,
with the majority designated for roads. Government's focus on rural infrastructure has increased
the pace of service expansion over the past decade, allowing Chile to achieve high rural
infrastructure coverage rates: 86% in electricity and over 90% in water supply for concentrated
rural populations, in addition to constructing 6,093 new public telephone centers covering 2.2
million people, 25,000 individual ruraltelephone lines and an extensive rural road network.

Chile now faces the challenge of continuing coverage expansion into primarily dispersed rural
populations while maximizing the sustainability and productive and social impact of existing
infrastructure investments. The needs are large and the remaining unserved populations are the
most difficult to reach. Currently, 77,118 rural households lack electricity, 680,000 households
in dispersed rural areas are without potable water service, and many more lack access to basic
sanitation facilities, all-weather roads, and a working phone or internet service.       Household
studies conducted intwo regions showed that communities inpoor rural municipalities identified
roads, sanitation, and potable water services as their primaryneeds.

The design of an improved multi-sectoral program to address the challenge of reaching the
unserved ruralpopulation must build on the strengths of the existing service delivery models, but
also address some limitations of the current single-sector, target-driven service delivery
mechanisms in several areas, specifically:

0   Inefficiencies in the way services are plannedand financed, due to centralized decision-
    making based on sectoral funding allocations and a long project preparation and approval
    process

0   Unrealized development impact due to the lack of coordination across sectors and
    investments that do not always respond to community and municipal priorities or to a local
    economic development strategy


                                                  4

a   Social and economic evaluation methodologies that do not allow for innovative multi-
    sectoral project designs and that present limitations to adapt to realities of dispersed
    populations and small settlements

a   Inappropriate technical standards resulting in services that are expensive to maintain and
    an inability to reachthe dispersedpopulations with more cost-effective solutions

0   Focus on coverage expansion without ensuring quality and sustainability of existing
    services by strengthening the capacity of local management bodies (such as water
    committees, SMEs, etc), increasing cost recovery and improving the efficiency of ruralroad
    maintenance.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Government of Chile i s very interested in finding new approaches to rural infrastructure
servicedelivery, and startedworking with the Bank in2003 on the implementation of anESW to
identify areas where existing strategies could be improved (the results of ESW are summarized
in Annex 1). In particular, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has delineated an action plan to
transition away from the centralized sectoral-driven approaches to investment decision-making.
During the past few years, it has progressively increased the amount of fiscal transfers to
regional governments, particularly via the Fondo Nucional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR)
which i s managedby Subsecretariade Desarrollo Regional (SUBDERE) of the Ministryof the
Interior, to allow regional governments (GORE) prioritize investments within each sectoral
allocation, especially in the rural infrastructure sectors (water, roads and electricity). MOF and
SUBDERE would like to further advance regional government discretionality in the allocation of
resources across sectors, and particularly in the infrastructure sectors which are the domain of
FNDR.. At the same time, MOF would like to ensure continued efficiency in resource
expenditures on rural infrastructure while increasing their impact on improving the economic
development potential of the ruralpoor.

As a follow up to the ESW, the Ministry of Finance requested Bank support in preparing and
financing a multi-sectoral infrastructure programtargeted to the poorer regions and communities
in the country. Inthis context, government sees the Bank as a source of strategic advice in
designing new approaches to rural infrastructure and territorial development, based on its
international experience and analytical work. At the same time, as government looks for more
appropriate institutional arrangements for planning and delivering rural infrastructure services,
the Bank serves as a more neutral third party to help bring together a large number of actors at
the national, regional and local levels to increase cross-sectoral coordination andjointly develop
a new way to provide rural infrastructure services within a territorial approach. In addition, the
Bank is able to share its global expertise in designing poverty-responsive rural infrastructure
programs, and introducing community participation, demand-responsive approaches and
solutions for reaching the unserved, poor and dispersedpopulations. The project also allows to
build synergies with the long-standing Bank-supported municipal development project,
PROFIM. Finally, the Bank's provision of US$50.26 million of funding enables government to
introduce a new a multi-sectoral budgetary allocation within FNDR specifically targeted to
infrastructure service improvements for the ruralpoor.




                                                  5

While the project had initially been envisioned as a US$30 million loan to partially finance
specific sector investments, the analytical ESW work and the subsequent dialogue with the
Government of Chile led to the design of an operation supporting a new system for the delivery
of rural infrastructure that empowers regional and territorial entities with a decisive role in the
planningand allocation of resources. The broader scope of the operation led to an increasedin
the amount of the loan which is well within the CAS resources envelope and country exposure
levels.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

The 2002 CAS set three broad goals: (a) sustaining economic growth and social progress, (b)
heightening inclusion, especially of rural populations and vulnerable groups, and (c)
modernizing the state as an underpinningof the two previous objectives. To achieve these goals,
the CAS incorporates a project on rural infrastructure following the completion of the sector
work.

The proposed project aims to improve livelihoods of rural communities by i)developing more
appropriate strategies for efficiently extending services for those ruralhouseholds without access
to one or more infrastructure services, and ii)improving the efficiency, sustainability and
developmental impact of the infrastructure services already provided. The project will also
support reforms to help government move towards: greater cross-sectoral coordination in rural
infrastructure, investment decisions that respond to community demand and investment
coordination to maximize impact. Although the project would contribute to some overall sector
andpolicy improvements, relatedmainly to improvingaccess of the ruraldispersedpopulation to
infrastructure services (and in particular in the water and sanitation sector), specific sectoral
policy reform i s not an over-riding objective of this multi-sectoral project. At the same time, the
project builds on and strengthens the existing institutional framework in Chile and does not
provide aparallelimplementation mechanism.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposedlendinginstrument is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). The Borrower selecteda
FixedSpreadLoan, repayable in6.5 years with a grace periodof 4.5 years.

Despite a learning focus of the project, a LIL was not considered an appropriate instrument
becauseof its small size andlimited potential impact. An APL has not been deemed appropriate
at this time due to our recent engagement in this type of project in Chile and the innovative
nature of this operation.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The project development objective i s to increase the effective and productive use of sustainable
infrastructure services by poor rural communities in selected territories of the regions of
Coquimbo, Maule, BioBio, Araucania, and Los Lagos (or any other region as may be proposed
by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank). The infrastructure services include water supply,
sanitation, roads, Information Communications Infrastructure Technology (ICT) andelectricity.


                                                  6

As an intermediate institutional objective,       the project will strengthen the capacity of
participating agencies to implement territorially-based, demand-responsive and multi-sectoral
approach to rural infrastructure as a contribution to local economic, social and environmental
sustainability. The learning and results of the project will provide a basis for implementing a
longer-term institutional reform on how rural infrastructure services are planned, financed and
delivered inChile.

Project outcomes will be measured by the increased use of sustainable and quality services by
the ruralpopulation andtheir contribution to economic and productive activities (see Annex 3 for
indicators). The institutional outcomes will be measuredby the mainstreaming of the territorial,
demand-responsive and multi-sectoral approach to rural infrastructure within government
programs, namely: (a) new methodologies for integrated economic and social evaluation of
multi-sectoral projects implemented by MIDEPLAN; (b) more effective, decentralized service
delivery models and appropriate technical solutions adopted by relevant sectoral agencies to
reach unserved and dispersed population; and (c) multi-sectoral territorial-based planning and
service delivery model replicated inother non-project territories andregions.

3. Project components

The project will include the following three components (costs include contingencies but do not
include the front-end fee of US$0.25 million):

1. Participatory Territorial Planning (US$3.94 million): this component will assist local
    stakeholders and regional government agencies to: (a) prepare in prioritized ruralterritories
    inthe five eligibleregions development framework plans, (b) identify demands for improved
    infrastructure services, and (c) monitor progress with planimplementation.

2. Infrastructure Service Delivery (US$80.29 million): this component will support: (a)
    feasibility and design studies of subproject proposals to submit for financing under this
    component, (b) rehabilitation of ruralroads and construction, rehabilitation and expansion of
    rural water, sanitation, electricity and ICT infrastructure, (c) supervision of the mentioned
    works, and (d) studies and support for the establishment and strengthening of local service
    providers to operate, maintain and administer the services to achieve quality and
    sustainability.

3. Institutional Strengthening (US$5.52): this component will support: (a) project
    coordination units at national andregional levels, (b) implementation of studies and capacity
    building to strengthen policies and institutions in areas of territorial planning and rural
    infrastructure service delivery (including those related to the application of social and
    environmental safeguards), and (c) project monitoring, evaluation and learning as a
    contribution to national level expansion of the program.

4. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

The ESW on Rural Infrastructure Services analyzed the strengths and limitations of the different
delivery mechanisms implemented in Chile. The key lessons from this work (characteristics of
successful programs, limited investment coordination among sectors, focus on coverage rather
than long terms sustainability, need to adapt technical standardsto reach dispersed populations,


                                                 7

etc.) were incorporated in the project design resultingin a cross-sectoral approach that aims to
increase impact and add value to existing single-sector investments by providing a full package
of demand-appropriate infrastructure services required to undertake meaningful productive
activities in ruralareas. At the same time, such an approachcould bring about greater efficiency
and sustainability of services to the remote and unserved populations by offering opportunities
for single and cross-sectoral service bundling. The project seeks to build on successful existing
experiences and at the same time introduce some innovations in the timing and sequencing of
project evaluation and funding allocation processes to move from a sectoral to a territorial
approach within an established budgetary framework. The approach would also identify
complementary programs to assist communities to make more efficient and productive use of
their infrastructure services, by associating infrastructure investments with other productivity
enhancementprograms.

Key lessonsrelated to ruralinfrastructure provision:

    Need to incorporate participatory approaches in the design and implementation of rural
    infrastructure projects as a means to enhance ownership, tailor the investment to local
    demands, andimprove the sustainability of investments.

    There are a range of technical options for improving infrastructure services in rural areas,
    each with its associated cost and service delivery options. In Chile, investments have often
    relied on technical standards that are more appropriate to larger populations and have led to
     facilities that are more expensive to maintain andoperate. There i s a need to introduce more
     appropriate and lower cost technologies, especially to serve the large number of rural
     dispersed communities, and assess their willingness to pay and preferences for operating the

   ' services as a meansto enhancesustainability.

     Mechanisms that promote local involvement in the operation and management of
     infrastructure services tend to lead to better management and maintenance practices. The
     experiences of other countries in the operation of rural infrastructure services has been
     brought to the preparation of this operation. For instance, the successful experiences of the
     road maintenance micro-enterprises in countries such as Colombia, Peru and Bolivia have
     beentaken into account with the adaptations required by the specificities of the Chilean rural
     areas. Chile has already developed successfulcommunity-managed approaches to ruralwater
     supplies, and through this project, these would be expanded to the off-grid electricity and
     operation of localtelecommunication services.

     Sectoralpolicies and approachesto ruralinfrastructure, while necessary, are not sufficient to
     achieve the impacts necessary to increase living conditions in rural areas. Territorial
     approaches can provide a means to improve coordination and complementarity of
     investments, and also build linkages to productive activities. This approach, however,
     requires a shift in the manner the investments are identified and evaluated. Studies in other
     countries, such as Peru, show that when several infrastructure services are made available
     simultaneously in the same rural area, the impact i s greater that the sum of the individual
     effects when the services are provided individually inseparate areas.




                                                  8

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

Alternative development interventions andapproachesthat have beenconsideredinclude:

a) National Program vs Targeted Regions. Given the pilot nature of the project, a phased
   approach in fewer regions would allow the development and testing of new participatory
   methodologies and cross-sectoral implementation mechanisms that take into account local
   demands and development impacts. The lessons for this first phase would allow government
   to expand the approachto all 13 regions inthe country.

b) Inclusion of Productive Infrastructure Investments (such as irrigation and support to
   agro-processes) Achieving an economic development impact in each territory will require a
   series of coordinated interventions in social, economic and productive infrastructure, and
   associatedtechnical assistanceto local service providers and user groups. At the same time,
   government, through the Ministry of Agriculture and other specialized agencies, has a large
   number of existing funds and programs to support productive rural activities. It was agreed
   that the added value of this project would be to provide the platform for local level
   coordination and territorial planning, develop a working model for cross-sectoral investment
   coordination, and focus its investments in the four infrastructure sectors. This i s already an
   ambitious agenda since in each sector, the objective will be to put place sustainable local
   service delivery models for the services provided, all of which will require specific sectoral
   expertise.

c) Implementation by Ministry of Public Works (MOPTT). MOPTT as the implementing
   agency for rural water and rural roads had important expectations about their role in the
   proposed project. They were responsible for initiating the ESW and have been active
   throughout project preparation. However, government decided to appoint the SUBDERE,
   guided by an inter-agency steering committee (the National Directorate), as the overall
   project implementation agency as a means to facilitate the multi-sectoral anddecentralization
   objectives of the project. SUBDERE also has the advantage of managing the FNDR fund
   channeling to the regions. However, it i s clear that SUBDERE will needto secure the active
   participation of all technical line agencies for project implementation, including MOPTT,
   CNEandSUBTEL.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

At the national level, the overall responsibility for project implementation and coordination will
rest with SUBDERE, through the Management and Development Unit (UGD), within the
Direccidn de Desarrollo Regional (DDR). Regional governments will be in charge of the
execution of the rural infrastructure investment plans, using the existing legal and fiduciary
framework of the FNDR. The FNDR was established by Decree 573/74, by the Government of



                                                 9

Chile to decentralize public investment at regional level, andworks under the overall supervision
of SUBDERE (see box below).

The SUBDERE, through the UGD, will be responsible for monitoring compliance with the
requirements and procedures established in the Loan Agreement and the Project Operational
Manual,andas suchwillberesponsiblefor overseeingproject implementation. The SUBDERE,
also through the UGD, will be responsible for monitoring the achievement of the project
development objectives and performance indicators and in charge of providing technical
assistance4irectly or through the contracting of specialized consultants-to     the entities at the
regional andlocal levels. SUBDEREwill be directly responsiblefor implementing Component 3
of the project. A national level Project National Directorate comprising representatives of
MOPTT, MOF, MIDEPLAN, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Economy will provide
overall strategic directives for project implementation. The Decree that will formally established
the National Directorate will summarized the responsibilities of the participating entities,
particularly as they related to the operational implementation of subprojects by their respective
sub-entities such as SUBTEL, Directorate of Roads (DV) and Directorate of Hydraulic Works
(DOH) of MOPTT, CONADI of MIDEPLAN, or the CNE and Chile Emprende of the Ministry
of Economy.




Within each region, a Unidad de GerenciamientoRegionaE (UGR) will be put in place, under
the oversight of the Regional Zntendentes and in coordination with the relevant units in the
regional governments (such as the Chief of Staff of the Zntendente or the SERPLAC). The
SUBDERE will sign an Eligible Region Agreement ("convenio de trabajo") with each of the
Regional Zntendentes (executive heads of the regional governments and chairs of the regional
councils, as regulated by Law No. 19175 of January 2003), laying down the administrative and
fiduciary responsibilities, including those related to social and environmental safeguards, as
specified in the Project Operational Manual, and reporting requirements.          The UGR will



                                                 10

implement Component 1 of the project in close coordination with UGD, through government
staff and consultants for the development of the Territorial Development Framework Plans. As i s
usual practice in Chile, the Regional Government will also oversee implementation of
Component 2, through Subproject Implementation Agreements ("Convenios Mandates") signed
with the qualifiedImplementationTechnical Units, as describedbelow.

The project will be implemented following a territorial approach to the identification of needs
and the execution of the selected infrastructure investments and the subsequent operation and
maintenance. The project will work through existing institutions, including regional
governments, deconcentrated sectoral agencies and municipalities, which will be adequately
supported as required by project managers and technical specialists. At the same time, a strong
coordination effort will be madethrough the formal establishment of directorates or commissions
where the representatives of the key entities at the national, regional or local levels will be
represented. Annex 6 details the institutional framework andresponsibilities.

Ineach region, the project cycle is initiatedby the identification of territories that respond to a
minimum set of socio-economic criteria, with the consensus of the Regional Council (CORE).
In these territories, the participatory planning process leads to the design of territorial
development framework plans (PMDTs) which will identify the priority rural infrastructure
investments-the    subprojects-to   be funded by the project, as well as other activities, such as
productive initiatives, that would be implementedby other government programs, or with private
financing (e.g., productive initiatives).  The plans and infrastructure investments would be
validated by the CORE. All infrastructure subprojects would also need to be approved by
MIDEPLAN, based on the socio-economic appraisal performed by its regional units
(SERPLACs). (The Box below summarizes the key characteristics of the pilot PMDTs.)




Implementation Technical Units ("Unidades Tbcnicas" or UTs) made up of staff of the sectoral
 agencies (MOPTT, CNE, municipalities, and other public sector entities) at the regional and
local levels will be responsible for preparation, procurement and supervision of subprojects
within their respective areas of expertise. The Execution Agreements signed between Regional


                                                 11

Zntendentes and the UTs will specify responsibilities for carrying out the implementation of the
specific infrastructure components in a particular region. These UTs will be responsible for the
implementation of their respective subprojects, including for example,                        preparing bidding
documents, carrying out the biddingprocesses, contract award and signing, approving payments
to contractors, and supervising of the contracted works and services).                            The Execution
Agreements will also specify the scope of the subprojects, the allocation of budgetaryresources,
procurement guidelines and procedures, supervisory and reporting requirements, and transfer
mechanisms of completed works for their .operation and management', and specify that the
proceduresof the Project Operational Manualwould be followed.

The selection of UTs will be carried out by the Regional Government in consultation with the
UGR, basedon the specific technical needs of each set of subprojects identified ina PMDT. In
addition, with the principle of devolving responsibilities to the local level, the UGRs, in
agreement with the UGD, andwith resourcesfrom the Project, will buildupthe capacity of more
locally-based UTs, such as municipalities or local committees, so that they can be engaged in
project implementation activities.

The UGRs and the CORES, supported by the existing Regional Control Units (deconcentrated
units of SUBDERE that are responsible for collecting and reviewing documentation on
expenditures under the FNDR),will conduct the oversight of the UTs. The UGRs will be staffed
with a limited number of personnel, determined by the size of the project portfolio inthe region,
andincludingspecialistsinfinancial andadministrative management.

Schedule of projectimplementation. The project will require a long-start up period to fully
develop in each territory, in a participatory and coordinated manner, including: (a) the
elaboration of PMDTs; (b) subproject identification, design, approval and procurement with due
consideration to safeguards; and (c) agreements with the Implementation Technical Units. The
implementation schedule anddisbursementprofile reflect this expectedlonger startupperiod.

Partnershiparrangements. Project preparationhas taken place incoordination andpartnership
with a broad spectrum of Chilean entities involved in activities in rural areas. This partnership
will be preserved during project implementation through the establishment of a National
Directorate that will provide overall strategic direction (the establishment of this Directorate i s
an effectiveness condition). Regional and territorial coordinating bodies will also be put inplace
for carryingout specific project activities. This scheme-formalized                 for the NationalDirectorate
through a Decree-will           allow to achieve the necessary synchronization with complementary
government programs (such as ChileSolidario, FOSIS, Origenes, Emprende Chile) and the
investment subprojects of the sectoral institutions (MOPTT, SUBTEL and CNE). At the
regional level, as required by the characteristics of the territories and subprojects, specific
Memoranda-of-Understanding will be signed between the Regional Governments and the
CONADI, with the ratification of MIDEPLAN, to further ensure adequate coordination on
indigenous issues.



' This type of agreements have been used by the SUBDERE for the execution of FNDR-supported projects and
other regional initiatives (those previously financed by central budgetary allocation subject to regional decisions-
the so-called ISAR). The most recent example i s the IDB-financed RuralElectrification Project.


                                                         12

Within the SUBDERE, the project will coordinate its activities with those being undertaken
under the World Bank-financed Municipal Development Project (PROFlM), currently in its
second phase. The exchange of information and strategies between PROFIM's national and
regional offices and those of the project i s paramount towards increasing the involvement of
municipalities in the management of rural infrastructure services, and their development in
general.    Furthermore, the municipal Communal Development Plans (PLADECOs) and
Strengthening Development Plans, will provide an important input into the PMDTs.
Coordination across the two projects could also be enhanced by joint Bank implementation
support missions.

2. Monitoring andevaluationofoutcomedresults

The SUBDERE will implement a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system designed to assess
the gradual impacts of the implementation of the infrastructure components of the PMDTs on the
communities in the selected territories and on the related productive activities. The system will
incorporate mechanisms to monitor subproject implementation by the Technical Units and
compliance with the established procurement, financial management and social and
environmental safeguardsprocedures.

The M&E system will also keep track of the achievement of the project performance
indicators included in the Results Framework (Annex 3). These indicators will track final and
intermediate project outcomes, while SUBDERE will have a more elaborate M&E system to
report on project results and processes. As the specific subprojects are not specified from the
outset but are identifiedthrough the participatory PMDTs, the actual number of physical targets
among the different infrastructure sectors will only beknown at the end of the project. However,
SUBDEREis identifying a list of physical targets related to increase inservice coverage ineach
sector and these will reflect an overall estimate of the percentageparticipation of each sector in
the list of subprojects identified inthe first pilot PMDTs, extrapolated to cover the total amount
of resources and considering the average cost per unit of measurement for each sector. During
the preparation of each PMDT, coverage rates, quality and use of the infrastructure services in
the territory will be measured to establish a baseline of information. Upon completion of
subproject activities in that territory a new measurement of the same data will be carried out to
analyze the progress in increasing coverage rates, quality and use of those services. As these
activities will be an integral part of PMDT preparation, their cost i s covered as part of
Component 1.

The Project will also undertake an assessment of intermediate socio-economic impact
indicators related to the contribution of infrastructure services to productive activities and the
socio-economic well-being of participating families. These evaluations may also use control
cases, by comparing similar territories that were not subject to project interventions.       The
information annually generatedunder the household survey, CASEN, will be used, to the extent
allowed by its reference to the selected territories, for cross-checking the results of the
evaluation. The costs of these evaluations has been included in Component 3. The UGD is
responsiblefor carrying out these analyseswith support from the relevant UGR.

A participatory monitoring process will be also incorporated into the overall M&Esystem and
implemented at the territorial level to include a beneficiary assessment of adherence to project



                                                  13

rules, progress and results of implementation. As stipulated inthe recommendations of the social
assessment, particular attention will be paid to including household and community data
collection, as a means to track overall participation, but also that of indigenous peoples and
women. Household data sheets will be completed in a representative sample of households
within benefiting territories to collect demographic and ethnic data, gender information,
infrastructure priorities, willingness to pay for improved services and to participate in
implementing local service delivery systems. The project M&E system will capture this
household data and use it for analysis of results and impact. The participatory monitoring of
project process will address the following: (a) project procedures were well explained and
followed, (b) quality of infrastructure provided, (c) quality and effectiveness of training, and (d)
methods andeffectiveness of community participation inthe project.

3. Sustainabi1;ty

Sustainability i s a cornerstoneof the overall project strategy to ensure the quality, continuity and
reliability of the infrastructure services that will be put inplace.

Inthe rural water sector, despite a highly effective strategy, which puts in place well organized
community-based service providers that have demonstrated excellent technical and
administrative capacity to operate their services, the ESW identified several gaps in their
capacity to be fully sustainable without continued government subsidy. The largest threat comes
from the established financial policy of the sector, whereby government fully subsidizes the
investment cost and only requires the tariff to cover basic operational and maintenance costs,
with no reserves for depreciation or major repairs. At the same time, many of the water
committees lack the legal ownership of the water resources or of the landon which the systems
are constructed as well as the operating license from the Ministry of Health, consequently they
are unable to access credit to self-finance system rehabilitation and expansion. These issues
have been brought to the attention of government, and Component 3 of the project includes
resourcesfor funding additional studies andpolicy work to encourage government to redress the
situation.

Sustainability of the rural roads that will be rehabilitated in the project will be enhanced by
following a three-pronged approach: (a) the Directorate of Roads (DV) will be in charge of the
design, implementation and maintenance of the roads within their network, (b) DV will also
promote a model for the strengthening of the capacity of municipalities in project territories to
help in managing the road networks within their jurisdiction, and (c) community-based micro-
enterprises will be formed and trained so that they can be hired by DV and municipalities to
undertakemaintenanceactivities. Component 3 includes additional resources to delineate a rural
transport policy and help identify strategies and actions inthe provision of transport services and
attend road safety issues on the rural(secondary) networks.

Interms of the networkedandwell-regulated services such as gridelectricity andICT, the active
role of the private sector as service providers coupled with an adequate regulatory framework,
investment subsidy and tariff structure, provide the technical, administrative and financial means
for the services to be sustainable as long as consumer pay their tariffs.     On the other hand, the
project will need to support government put inplace local management structures to operate the




                                                    14

non-networked decentralized electricity and telecommunication services, building on the
successful experiences inChile of the ruralwater sector.

4. Critical risks andpossiblecontroversialaspects

The possible risks refer to the methodologies to be followed during project implementation,
especially those that involve: participatory processes for the selection of investments, the active
coordination of multiple actors at different levels of government, and the identification of
territories which require the validation of the CORE, and therefore a marrying of technical and
political criteria. These elements represent a shift in the manner the Chilean government has
been undertaking interventions inruralareas and as such represent a challenge for the successful
implementation of the project, as well as for the longer-term institutionalization of the approach.
The overall risk for the projecti s ratedas modesthubstantid.


Klsk                         Mitigstian
The capacity of the          The institutional capacity of most agencies at the national and regional
SUBDEREto manage the         levels in Chile is quite strong, especially on technical and project
Project andeffectively       implementation issues. SUBDERE i s a well qualified implementation
coordinate across multiple   agency, with experience in managing IDB projects, as well as the Bank-
agencies does not measure    funded PROFIM project. SUBDERE will need to hire additional staff for
up to expectations.          the project at both the national level (the Management and Development
(SubstantiaVModest)          Unit or UGD) and within each project region (the Regional Implementing
                             Unitsor UGRs). SUBDERE will be requiredto put in placethe UGD as a
                             condition of effectiveness, to support procurement, project management,
                             social and environmental management, infrastructure engineering and
                             economic functions. Ineach region at the UGR, qualified staff will also be
                             appointed or hired, and a task manager assigned to follow up on the
                             implementation of each PMDT, ahead of initiating transfer of resourcesto
                             that region. One of the greater challenges for SUBDERE will be to ensure
                             active coordination and collaboration with all participating agencies (see
                             next risk)
The Implementation           A series of legal instruments are being put in place to specify roles and
TechnicalUnitsdo not have    accountabilitiesfor project implementation. The Decreethat establishesthe
afunctional dependence       National Directorate will provide the umbrella framework for the effective
with SUBDERE, andmay         partnership of the GORES,TUs and the SUBDERE in the implementation
therefore havefewer          of the Project. At the same time, each participating sectoralministry will be
incentivesto participatein   requestedto orient and supervise its deconcentrated units in the regions to
the project ratherthan       ensure that their participation in the project form an integral part of their
implementtheir own           regular work program. In addition, the Subproject Implementation
programsandor may pay        Agreements between the Regional Governments and the Implementation
less attentionto the quality Technical Units will detail the responsibilities of the TUs and the
of implementation.           procedures for implementing all project activities, as described in the
(ModesdSubstantial)          Project Operational Manual. The National Directorate will be informed of
                             any possible non-compliance issues and requested to propose actions to
                             address them.
                             The territorial approachwill require the region to allocate funds as a multi-
GovernmentsandCouncils,      sectoral package rather than on a subproject-by-subproject basis. Strong
arising from political       initial buy-in of project scope and approachby Regional Governments and
factors. adverselv affect    Councils appears to indicate a low level of this risk. Nonetheless, the


                                                   15

 project implementation.      formalization of the Eligible Region Agreements between the SUBDERE
 (LowNodest)                  and the GORESwill cement the framework for the implementation of the
                              project in each region. Inaddition, the SUBDERE has been undertaking-
                              and will continue to undertake-a     dissemination campaign of the project
                              features and the advantages of the territorial approach.      The Regional
                              Territorial Commissions are also expected to counterbalance interests at the
                              regional level and ensure that the Regional Zntendente and the CORE
                              support the implementation of the plan in an integrated manner and
                              according to its dictates.
 MIDEPLANis notable to        During project preparation the SUBDERE and MIDEPLAN signed an
 elaborate the                M O U endorsing the need to consider the possible complementary benefits
 methodologicalproposal for   and reduced costs entailed by a territorial approach for subproject
 incorporatingan integrated   identification and implementation. Further memoranda will be issued to
 analysis inthe evaluation of ensure that these principles are effectively incorporated into the ways the
 subprojects under the        SERPLAC appraise subprojects and also to advance in defining cost-
 PMDT approach. (Modest)      effectiveness thresholds for lower-cost sub-projects.        The technical
                              assistance component includes resources to support         MIDEPLAN in
                              analyzing alternative methodologies for the evaluation of infrastructure
                              subprojects in low-density rural areas and of a combination of subprojects
                              that are part of a PMDT. A covenant has been defined agreeing on the
                              testing of the new methodology upon its elaboration two years after the
                              Effective Date of the Loan.
 Limitedexperience with       At the national and regional levels, the Project Operational Manual will
 participatory and            outline the steps for implementing agencies to secure community and
 decentralized projects may   municipal participation in the project, including addressing gender and
 limit the opportunity        indigenous issues.      Capacity will be built within these agencies to
 provided to community        incorporate more participation into their work. Indicatorsare includedinthe
 members andmunicipal         results framework to track local level endorsement of the PMDTs and
 governments to be actively   investment plans.
 engagedinall stages of
 subproject identificationand At the local level, the coordination with PROF'IM will help build upon its
 inthe operation and          achievements in municipal strengthening. At the same time, participating
 managementof their           communities and municipalities will be assistedto put inplace local service
 services.                    delivery mechanisms for management of water and sanitation, off-grid
 (SubstantiaYModest)          electricity, and secondary roads, by promoting and strengthening local

I                             micro-enterprises, cooperatives, committees, etc.


 5. Loadcreditconditionsand covenants

 Effectiveness conditions:

 0   The SUBDEREhaspreparedandadoptedthe Project Operational Manualinterms and scope
     acceptableto the Bank.

 0   The Project National Directorate, consisting at least of representativesfrom the SUBDERE,
     Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications
     (MOPTT), MIDEPLAN, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Economy, has been legally
     establishedinform and substance acceptable to the Bank.



                                                    16

0  The SUBDERE establishes the Management and Development Unit (Unidad de
   Gerenciamiento y Desarrollo) in a form and with the number of qualified staff acceptableto
   the Bank.

Covenants:

0  The SUBDEREshould, not later than a date two years after the Effective Date of the Loan,
   furnish to the Bank for its review andcomments, the recommendations of the studies on the
   new methodology for the social and economic evaluation of projects based on a territorial
   approach, andthereafter test the methodology inthe evaluation of subprojects.

0  The SUBDERE should seek prior approval of the Bank of any resettlement plans developed
   following the Resettlement Policy Framework, and carry them out. The SUBDERE will
   carry out the indigenous peoplesplaninall relevant regions with indigenous population.

Conditions of disbursementsfor subprojects

0  Before submittingfirst withdrawal applications for a subproject in a Region, the SUBDERE
   has signed the Eligible Region Agreement (Convenio de Trabajo)with the relevant Regional
    Government andthe UGRhasbeenestablishedwith a number of qualified staff acceptableto
   the Bank.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

Due to the demand-based nature and characteristics of the multiple, relatively small subprojects
that will be financed, an ex-ante specific economic or financial rates of return analysis for the
overall project is not feasible. Since this is a framework-type of project, the eligibility criteria,
procedures and methodologies for evaluation and screening methodologies of the subprojects
have been determined. These methodologies rely largely on the systems inuse by MIDEPLAN.
However, the innovative aspects of this project will also require that MIDEPLAN make
adjustments to its current practices to reflect: (a) the territory-based approach and so that
complementary benefits that stem from a combined set of rural infrastructure subprojects are
taken into account and (b) more streamlined procedures for evaluating smaller scale subprojects
through the application of per capita investment thresholds and to promote the use of more
appropriate andcost-effective technologies for dispersedruralpopulations.

The maincharacteristics of the MIDEPLANmethodologies for each sector, the adjustmentsto it,
and the cost-effectiveness criteria to be applied in the evaluation of the proposed subprojects
identifiedthrough the participatory PMDTs are described in detail in Annex 9. This "adjusted"
framework has been discussed and agreedupon with MIDEPLANand an MOU has been issued
in this respect. During project implementation, and before two years after the effective date,
MIDEPLAN would be supported to develop a new methodology for the evaluation of
territorially-based multi-sector infrastructure plans. This methodology would then be tested and
applied inthe evaluation of subprojects as appropriate.




                                                  17

The MIDEPLANmethodological process aims at evaluating the private and economic (social in
MIDEPLAN terminology) rates of return to vet the sustainability of investments (private
perspective) and the worthiness of those subprojects that may not be financially sustainable
(social perspective). Rural roads subprojects are solely assessed on the basis of economic
(social) considerations. Both private andeconomic assessments are pertinent inthe case of rural
electrification and rural telecommunication subprojects and, in some instances, for water and
sanitation subprojects.

Inthe case of ruralelectrification andtelecommunication subprojectsthe responsible entities are
often private concessionaires in charge of providing those services as part of the interconnected
network. When the system is not financially sustainable a minimum subsidy policy applies.
When the rural electrification subprojects are not interconnected, or in the cases of water
committees, then the community or a committee becomes responsible for the management and
upkeep of the system, it becomes imperative that the system i s financially self-sufficient to
ensure its sustainability.

2. Technical

The characteristics of the subprojects to be identified through the PMDTs do not impose major
technical difficulties.   The design of the subprojects will follow technologies and standards
adaptedto the features of the territories. However, in some sectors there will be a need to adjust
technical design standards so that they are more appropriate to the needs and capacities of the
smaller, more dispersedcommunities. This will be particularly relevant inthe case of water and
sanitation and off-grid electricity services, and provision have been made under Component 3 to
undertake studies in these areas.         For roads, the technical characteristics will involve
improvements to-existing surfaces, drainage systems and retaining walls to ensure a level of
access tailored to the specific transport needs of the local communities as identified by them in
the PMDTs. To ensurethe appropriate technical quality of the design of the subprojects andthen
of their implementation, the proposals will be subject to a technical evaluation by the sectoral
entities (DV, DOH and SUBTEL of the MOPTT, and the CNE), in addition to the customary
socio-economic appraisal undertakenby MIDEPLAN.

3. Fiduciary

Financial management. The Financial Management (FM)Assessment took into consideration
SUBDERE experience inexecutingBank( 4429 CL Municipal Development 11-P069259) and
other multilateral financed projects. The assessment covered the proposed project's financial
managementsystem (budgeting, accounting, internalcontrol, auditing andreporting).

For the infrastructure component the project will rely on the established SUBDERE and country
systems already in place-FNDR-using             the established fiduciary framework (Financial
Management policies and procedures, fiduciary controls and reporting systems). Furthermore,
allproject funds will besubjectto the NationalAdministrationbudgetary andcontrolframework.
The assessment has found that the existing arrangements are satisfactory and incompliance with
Bank policies and the only specific action required is a project audit report under acceptable
terms of referencewith a single audit opinion. No additional 34 staff is required for this project.




                                                  18

Retroactive financing i s being proposed for this project in the amount of US$5 million for
expendituresafter November 1,2004.

The preparation of the financial statements of the project as a whole and the justification of
expenditures and the withdrawal requests to the World Bank will be the responsibility of
SUBDERE. Accounting reportingwill follow Chile's public sector accounting standardsandthe
accounting proceduresset by the accounting division of the Contraloria General de la Repziblica
(CGR). SUBDERE will provide, within six months of the end of each fiscal year an audit report,
preparedby CGR, with a single opinion on special accounts, project accounts, and statement of
expenditures (SOE). SUBDERE will also be incharge of supervising the technical assistance
planandmonitoringkey indicators for the project.

The Project Operational Manual will include the additional procedures for this operation
complementing those inusefor the FNDRandthe formats andcontent of the quarterly financial
monitoringreports (FMRs) andAudit Terms of Reference.

The assessment concluded that SUBDERE financial management system satisfies the Bank's
minimumfinancial management requirements. Onthe Fiduciary Risk, the assessment concludes
that the inherent risk i s low due to country considerations discussed below and the control risk
related to the proposed project i s low at the time of this evaluation. The overall risk assigned to
the project is low. The supervision plan is designed to handle the risks identified. Annex 7
provides additional information on financial management arrangements and on the results of the
assessment.

Procurement. An assessment of the capacity of the agencies that would implement procurement
actions for the project has been carried out.       The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the PCU and the
implementing agencies. Procurement activities will be carried out by various Implementation
Technical Unitslocatedinthe regions.

A recent CPAR for Chile revealedthat locallegislation differ from Bankrules inseveral aspects.
These differences have becomepart of the legaldocuments agreedupon at negotiations, andwill
be taken into account in the elaboration of the national bidding documents for the project. In
addition, due to the limited participation of the Bank in the financing of works in Chile, it is
expected that most of the UTs would not have adequate previous experience in Bank
procurement. Inthis respect, a supervision planhasbeen designedto ensure closer review of the
procurement processes performed by the UT at the beginning of project implementation and
accompanied by training and support from a specialist at the SUBDERE, following with an
incremental ex-post review as the capacity of UTs i s built up. Annex 8 details the procurement
processes that will be followed as well as the agreed institutional strengthening requirements of
SUBDERE.The OverallProcurement Risk is assessedas average.

4. Social

The current Chilean normative and legal framework include appropriate and exhaustive
consideration of social and environmental issues, and will be an integral part of the actions to be
carried out under the project and the contracts to be executed for the implementation of



                                                 19

subprojects. The project however will not use country systems per se albeit it will use the
country's institutional framework and capabilities while meeting all Bank standards and
requirements. The key Chilean entities involvedin social and environmental matters (CONADI,
CONAMA) will provide counterpart support to ensure the application of the normative andlegal
framework and the carrying out of capacity-strengthening actions at the national and regional
level, while ensuringthe application of Bankprocedures andrequirements.

Consultation and disclosure at the local level has taken place as part of the development of
participatory PMDTs in the pilot areas in the Bio Bio and Araucania, regions. (See Box 3.)
These have served as a basis for designing the locally-based participation and consultation
mechanism that will be followed duringproject implementation. All relevant stakeholder groups
from communities, municipalities, private sector, civil society and regional government have
participatedinthe elaboration of the PMDTs. Representativesof local stakeholderswill have the
opportunity to sign the PMDTs and SUBDERE will be required to monitor the specific
participation of women andindigenous groups inthis process.




In addition to community and local stakeholder participation in the design of the PMDTs,
participation will form the cornerstone for prioritizing, implementing and managing the rural
infrastructure services. This will be most critical in the utility sectors, including water, piped
sanitation, electricity and ICT, as the services provided would have to respond to user demand
andwillingness to pay the basic tariff for consumption. Community input will also be essential
to identify the critical areas and priorities for road improvements and maintenance as local
inhabitants are best suited to know where the problems occur. In all sectors, locally-based
service management bodies will be established, giving community groups, cooperatives and
 small enterprises greater responsibility for administrating, operating and delivering services.
This will also contribute to additional source of employment inrural areas.


                                                 20

To address social safeguards, an indigenous peoples development plan (IPDP) was also
prepared due to the large number of Mapuche population in the Regions of Araucania and Bio
Bio. The National Council for Indigenous Development, CONADI-MIDEPLAN, was consulted
during project preparation and has requested close coordination between this project and the
IDB-financed Origenes program, which has many lessons to share regarding indigenous people
participation. CONADI will assist as pertinent inthe implementation of the IPDP, inthe context
of other current indigenous plans in the relevant territories, and under the terms of an agreement
to be signed with the SUBDERE and ratified by MIDEPLAN. Specific IPDP actions will be
specified, as required, as part of the PMDTs and subproject development and implementation.
An involuntary resettlement policy framework was also prepared, although no major issues
are expected. All plans prepared following the framework will be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval. A summary of the results of the safeguardassessment, and action planand
framework are included inAnnex 10, andthe detailed report issuedby SUBDERE i s available in
the project files.

Specific activities were agreed with SUBDERE to ensure and monitor opportunities for
participation of all eligible members of the population in project territories and to address
safeguard issues (in addition to those inthe IPDP and Resettlement Framework). These will be
included inthe Project Operational Manual, andare as follows:

    SUBDERE, through the Regional Management Units, will ensure that broad dissemination
    campaigns are used to promote the project, its objectives, geographic scope, potential
    beneficiaries and activities. These campaigns will target both indigenous and non-indigenous
    communities inpotential project areas, usinga variety of communication methods.

    SUBDERE will maintain close coordination with regional, provincial and municipal
    governments and CONADI-MIDEPLAN for the elaboration and implementation of the
    PMDTs to ensure that indigenous areas and peoples have an equal chance of being selected
    andof participating inthe project.

    All consultation and training events held in communities with indigenous populations will
    buildonthe culturalpractices, habits andbeliefs of the indigenouspopulation.

    As mentioned in the M&E section, a household data sheet will be completed in a
    representative sample of households and included as baseline information in the project
    M&Esystem. Communitymemberswillparticipate inthe participatory M&Eprocess.

    Project implementing agencies that interact directly with indigenous communities will have
    to include at least one facilitator who is specialized in working with the Mapuche
    population.

    Project implementation agencies will' also need to build their capacity to introduce
    participatory processes in the way they work, including addressing gender and indigenous
    issues. This trainingwill also review safeguards issues and will be done as part of the overall
    training on participatory preparation of PMDTs.




                                               21

    Specific steps for implementing resettlement, should it occur, are also outlined in Annex 10
    andthe SocialAssessment(available inproject files).

5. Environment

The project does not foresee any major environmental issues arising from the subprojects that
will be financed, due to their small nature and technical characteristics. Environment issues in
the project are being mainstreamed into the territorial planning and subproject preparation and
approval process. Checklists for conducting EAs have been prepared for each type of sectoral
investment. An environmental assessment was conducted by SUBDERE as part of project
preparation, i s available inproject files and summarized inAnnex 10.

Chile has very good institutional and regulatory capacity to address environmental issues. As
stated above, the project will not use country systems per se but will make use of the country's
capacity to address environmental issues, while meetingBank requirements. The Environmental
Agency, CONAMA, has established procedures for identifying and providing mitigation for
environmental issues arising from project activities.                      The regulations for the National
Environmental Evaluation System have been operational in Chile since December 7, 2002.
These regulationsdefine the types of investment that are subject to a full-scale impact evaluation
process, and those that can be managed through the application of environmental guidelines
(such as check-lists) and procedurespre-defined duringproject preparation. The guidelines will
be incorporated inthe Project Operational Manual.

Institutional capacity to address environmental and social issues is weaker at the regional and
local levels. The project, therefore, includes the strengthening of environmental planning and
supervision capacity of government agencies (including the regional offices of the CONAMA),
as an integral part of the territorial development planning andproject design and implementation
process. (Annex 10.) The SUBDEREhas reached an agreement with the CONAMA with the
purposeof receiving the support of this entity in the strengthening of the project's environmental
guidelines andcarrying out the capacity-building program on environmental management.

6. Safeguard policies

  SafeguardPolicies Triggered by the Project                                           Yes                    No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [XI                   [I
  Natural Habitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [I                    [XI
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                              E l                   [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP4.11)                                   [XI                   [I
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [XI                   [I
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP4.10)                                     1x1                   [I
  Forests (OP/BP4.36)                                                                   [I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                           [I                    [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              E[Il                  [XI
  Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                                           [XI




* By supportingtheproposedproject, theBank does not intend toprejudice thefinal detenninutionof theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                          22

Social safeguards, including the IPDP and the involuntary resettlement policy framework, and
the environmental policies and procedures are described above. The safeguards will be taking
into account with due compliance with Bank standards and requirements. The safeguard policy
on cultural property has also been included as required by recent Bank policies. In the event
that chance findings of goods or sites that might appear of cultural significance are encountered
duringthe project implementation, works will be stoppedandthe relevant authorities called upon
to investigate the site. If these goods and sites are found of cultural significance, the subproject
will be redesigned to avoid any harmful effects to such goods or sites, or otherwise cancelled
altogether. These requirements and those related to environmental policies will be incorporated
into the Project Operational Manual.

7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

There are nopolicy exceptions andthe project i s ready to be implemented.




                                                 23

                    Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                          CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructureServices


Introduction

The design of this project is based on the analysis and results of a comprehensive Economic
Sector Work (ESW), undertaken by the World Bank and government over an eighteen month
period (see report No. 29037-CL, May 23, 2004), as well as a series of more operationally-
focused studies funded through a PHRD grant, and the study financed by the Dutch Trust Fund
on "BringingBroadbandInternet Access to Chile's Rural Areas" (with a complementary USTDA
grant to undertake the related feasibility studies). The project provides government with an
instrument to develop, test and expand solutions for improving the access, quality, sustainability
and impact of rural infrastructures within a territorial approach to local economic and social
development. The project will address both cross-sectoral constraints as well as the limitations
of the existing institutional and policy frameworks of the water, sanitation, transport, electricity
andICT sectors as they relateto servicesinruralareas. The findings of the ESW as they relate to
project design are summarized below.

Background and Overview of RuralInfrastructureSituation

Over the past decade, the Chilean government has made impressive strides in economic growth,
poverty reduction and increasing access of the poor to public services, including in rural areas.
Infrastructure services are essential to ensure all Chileans have sufficient opportunities for
achieving basic standards of living, generating income and rising out of poverty. Despite the
highly urbanizednature of the country, 2 million Chileans reside inruralareas, of whom 500,000
live in poverty and many lack basic services. Large portions of the rural population live in
Regions VI- X, with the majority of the rural poor found in Regions VU-X, as shown by Table
Al.l.

              Table Al.l. Majority of the ruralpoor reside inRegionsVI1-X




                                               24

The Chilean government has made a significant commitment to expanding rural infrastructure
services as a means to address poverty andincome inequality inthe ruralspace. This has taken a
variety of forms: the creation of rural infrastructure programs and expertise within technical
ministries, the establishment of specialized funding streams, and applying versatility to the
selection of service delivery options. The sectoral agencies have gathered the human and
financial resources necessary for planning, evaluating and implementing rural infrastructure
projects of high standardized quality. Over the past five years, the government has invested
approximately one billiondollars inruralpotable water, electricity, roads, andpublic telephones,
with the majority designatedfor roads. Government's focus on ruralinfrastructure has increased
the pace of service expansion over the past decade, allowing Chile to achieve high rural
infrastructure coverage rates: 86% in electricity and over 90% in water supply provision for
concentrated rural populations, in addition to constructing 6,093 new public telephone centers
covering 2.2 million people, 25,000 individualruraltelephone lines and an extensive rural road
network.

Chile now faces the challenge of continuing coverage expansion into primarily dispersed rural
populations while maximizing the sustainability and productive and social impact of existing
infrastructure investments. The needs are large and the remaining unserved populations are the
most difficult to reach. Currently, 77,118 rural households lack electricity, 680,000 households
in dispersedrural areas are without potable water service, and many more lack access to basic
sanitation facilities, all-weather roads, and a working phone or internet service. Household
studies conducted intwo regions showed that communities inpoor ruralmunicipalities identified
roads, sanitation, and potable water services as their primary needs.     National statistics hide
regional and municipal variations in service coverage. Although there i s less cross-regional
variation in percentage terms, there are major differences in the absolute number of rural
inhabitants without services, as shown inTables Al.2 and Al.3 below.

The regions with the highest service coverage gaps closely coincide with the regions with the
highest poverty levels. These are ranked in order of highest level of deficiencies: Regions VIII,
IX,X, VI1andIV.




                                               25

                  Table A1.2 PercentOf Rural ChileansWith Access To Services




               Table A1.3 Number of Rural Population Without Access to Services




    Coverage includes houses with indoors connections and an assumptionthat 50% of households with water on
their property actually haveimproved potablewater sources (deep protectedwells)
  Includeshouses connectedto improved facilities: sewer, septic systems or improved latrines

 see footnote I
 see footnote 2


                                                      26

Sector Overviews and Issues to be Addressedby Project

RuralWater and Sanitation

The national ruralwater program for concentratedpopulations (the APR Program), implemented
by the Hydraulic Works Department (DOH) of M O P " relies on a community-managed service
delivery model for providing water services to concentrated rural communities. Despite the
success of this program in increasing water supply coverage to the concentrated population and
the positive results of the community management model, long-term sustainability of the
installed system is at risk. This is mainly due to the inadequate government-mandated tariff
structure and legal limitations that constrain water committee capacity to achieve full cost
recovery and sustainability. In addition, there i s a need for providing improved water to the
680,000 unserved rural population. This can be accomplished by adopting demand-responsive
strategies for finding technologically and economically feasible solutions to the water and
sanitation needs of all rural communities. A huge effort i s also needed to improve sanitation
services in all rural areas, with a strategic focus of interventions in territories where there are
greater potential for economic, social andenvironmental impacts. At the same time, outreach and
hygiene promotion will be required to generate demand for and maximize the impact of these
improved water and sanitation services, especially in dispersed populations. Finally, the sector
work noted the need for government to address a major in institutional gap in the sub-sector,
especially in terms of establishing responsibility for a national rural sanitation policy and
investment program, and a clear institutional mandate and program for providing water to the
dispersedcommunities. The study recommendedthat government should continue to finance the
technical capacity of a central government agency, which could be either maintained within
MOPTT or else assigned to another agency with similar capacity, to assist decentralized
governments and communities in implementing water and sanitation projects. The project will
address service coverage deficits, sustainability issues and provide some support to assist
government in addressing the afore-mentioned institutional issues, especially related to studies
on lower cost technologies, financial policies, simplified economic and social evaluation
procedures for small projects and expediting the legal recognition of water and sanitation
committees to facilitate their access to credit.

Rural Transport

Road management in Chile i s highly centralized at the MOPTT, however unlike other
infrastructure sectors, there i s no specific program for rural roads. There has been considerable
experimentation with a variety of mechanisms that have led to the reasonable upkeep of an
extensive network of ruraland non-rural roads. Participation of the private sector, particularly on
inter-urban roads, has evolved in various forms and has been greatly enhanced over time.
However, for rural(communal) roads, the current force account system appears inefficient as the
average age of the labor pool is high, the machinery i s in need of major overhaul and the so-
called "global" contracts are expensive to reach the needs of the secondary communal network,
thereby limitingthe opportunities to engage communities in maintenance activities. Rural roads
lack clear classification, leading to difficulties in analyzing traffic safety and maintenance data,
andthe evaluation of resource needs is carried out on a basis similar to that of inter-urban roads
which results in a reduced levelof maintenancefunds available for low-traffic roads.




                                                  27

There i s a need to enhance the assessment and categorization of rural roads, as well as the
evaluation of maintenance needs andthe assignment of responsibilities and allocation of funds at
an appropriate level to meet local economic development priorities. Gradual devolution of road
maintenance responsibilities requires technical, financial and administrative capacity-building of
the municipal andregional governments. This effort should be accompaniedby greater attention
to the maintenance of non-enrolled rural roads. The use of community-based micro-enterprises
for periodic rural road maintenance should be promoted as a cost-effective alternative to force
account or global contract systems. The project will start to address some of the above issues, by
engaging local actors in assessing needs for road improvements, prioritizing interventions in
relation to the territorial developmentpriorities, promotingthe implementation of a community-
based enterprise maintenance program, and building the capacity of municipal and regional
governments. The regional offices of MOPTT will play a major role in implementing these
interventions as a means for the lessons to be internalized and replicated in other areas of the
country.

RuralElectricity

The innovative national Rural Electricity Program (PER) has achieved great successes in
increasing coverage rates from 53% to 86% over the past decade while leveraging significant
private financing. While the PER has greatly assisted the CNE develop significant technical
planning capacity for grid expansion, enhanced capacity is still required to address off-grid
service delivery andevaluation mechanismsinorder to reach the remaining unservedpopulation.
The lack of a strong off-grid market and local capacity for operation and maintenance limits the
cost efficiency and sustainability of investments. At the same time, the basic level of service
provided to most rural areas, that of single-phase electricity, restricts capacity to use it for large
productive activities, such as agro-processing and freezing required in the fisheries sector. The
sector work recommendedthat off-grid electricity service should be planned for andprovided on
a regional basis inorder to achieveeconomies of scale, maximizeuse of renewable resourcesand
promote productive uses. The PER should also pay increased attention to developing demand-
responsive technological options, specifically off-grid systems for isolated or dispersed
populations. Off-grid electricity service necessitates multi-level capacity-building, including
strengthening the CNE's expertise in alternative technologies and helping small-scale off-grid
and renewable electricity operators provide better quality services. The project will assist CNE
to work with the regional governments and territorial actors in identifying and meeting the
demands of electricity coverage gaps, in terms of both basic services for those still unserved, as
well as providing higher service level for productive needs identified in the territorial
development plans. It will also support the capacity building of decentralized service delivery
providers of off-grid solutions.

RuralInformation and CommunicationsInfrastructure

The IC1 sector in Chile i s among the most advanced in Latin America and access to
telecommunications services is higher than most countries in the region and those with similar
income levels. Chile is a pioneer in universal access funds, with the Telecommunications
Development Fund(FDT), operatedby SUBTEL, providingpublic telephone and Internet center
services to marginalized populations. The sector work, however, identified a major weakness in
the lack of coordination across programs, specifically for Internet services which limits the


                                                 28

efficiency and sustainability of IC1 investments and burden rural municipalities with high
operation costs. Also, the introduction of cellular service and poor equipment maintenance have
limitedthe impact of public telephone investments,with many of the public phones inrural areas
not functioning. The sector work identified the need for additional Internet service demand
assessments in order to expand the secondary network in a cost-effective manner. As a result,
during the past year, the WB has assisted SUBTEL develop a $10M investment program for
Internet expansion to rural areas. A territorial approach to planning can bring about improved
coordination and demand assessment for local IC1 interventions to avoid overlap across
programs andensure services match operational cost feasibility criteria. On the other hand, such
an approach needs to be balanced with the economies of scale and efficiencies of rolling out
Internet services to rural areas through a centralized program as envisaged by SUBTEL. The
project will support elements of SUBTEL's broader Internet roll-out program within the five
project regions by assisting local entrepreneurs to set-up commercially-based info-centers, as
well as through the development of useful applications and user training in the territories that
receive Internet services as a meansto buildup a critical mass of users.

Cross-sectoralIssues

The cross-sectoral findings of the sector work identify some strong points of the sectoral
programs characterizedby:

Clear sectoralobjectives anda continuous andreliable streamof funding

    Transparent procedures for accessing funds and consistency in application of standardized
    project evaluationcriteria

0   Technical capacity incentral line agencies anddeconcentratedregional offices

    Success inleveraging private sector financing

    Versatility inservice delivery model selection

0   Progressivedecentralization of decision-making

At the same time, the sector work also identified some cross-cutting issues that restrict the
effectiveness and impact of rural infrastructure investments on rural well-being. These are the
gaps that the project will seek to fill through its multi-sectoral intervention strategy, targeted at
poor areas andadopting a territorial approach. Cross-sectoralweaknessesinclude:

Focus on coverage expansion may have been at the expense of long-term sustainability:
Service sustainability i s heavily dependent upon the accountability and the technical and
financial capacity of the organizations chargedwith operation and maintenance. Historically, the
government has focused its technical and financial resources on installation, at times failing to
ensure that serviceproviders have the financial, technical, and administrative capacity necessary
to operate, maintainandrehabilitate services over time.




                                                 29

Technical standards and evaluation criteria lack the flexibility to adapt to realities of
dispersed populations and small settlements. In all four sectors, the established high quality
technical standards lack the flexibility necessaryto successfully expand infrastructure services to
dispersedand/or rural poor populations. Lack of flexibility in technology options at times leads
to the installation of systems beyond the financial and technical capacity of the community to
maintain. The universal application of relatively high cost solutions also leaves projects in
dispersedpopulations unable to pass cost-benefit evaluations.

Lack of a coordinated cross-sectoral planningprocesslimits the effectiveness and impact of
infrastructure investments. A final set of limitations of the current model across all sectors
includes the lack of a coordinated planning process to align the priorities and projects of the
various sectoral agencies, regional and municipal governments and community members. The
failure to coordinate results in project preparation investments inefficiently spent on programs
that do not match local priorities. Communities obtain one infrastructure service, but not the
bundle of services necessary to increase their productive capacity or to open new business
ventures. In some cases, competing programs provide duplicate services in the same
communities. Limited community participation further results in users possibly uninterested or
unable to cover operation and maintenancecosts. Incorrect demand assessments, particularly in
the case of electricity services, fail to capture willingness to pay for a higher level of service and
to meet the demands for productive uses.

Cross-Sectoral Issues to be Addressed by the Project

The recommendations emerging from the ESW, and adopted by the project, are designed to
address two broad sets of needs: (a) to improve the efficiency, sustainability and impact of
infrastructure services for the rural population that already has received access, and (b) to
develop more appropriate strategies for extending service coverage to those still unserved
segments of the ruralpopulation. There are as follows:

A territorial approach as a means to increase planning and financing efficiency,
sustainability and impact of infrastructure investments.             Adopting a territorially-based,
multi-sectoral planning approach for rural infrastructure will help support the economic, social
and environmental sustainability of the rural territory by identifying the infrastructure
requirements necessary for economic development and ensuring basic standards of living. A
cross-sectoral approach will increase impact and add value to existing single-sector investments
by providing a full package of demand-appropriate infrastructure services required to undertake
meaningful productive activities inruralareas. At the same time, such an approach should bring
about greater efficiency and sustainability of services to the remote and unserved populations by
offering opportunities for single and cross-sectoralservice bundling. The model would require a
modification inthe timing and sequencingof project evaluation and funding allocation processes
to move from a sectoral to a territorial approach within an established budgetary framework.
The approach would also identify complementary programs to assist communities to make more
efficient and productive use of their infrastructure services, by associating infrastructure
investmentswith productivityenhancementprograms.




                                                  30

Ways to improve financing through mobilizing funds and increasing cost recovery. To
serve the largely poor, dispersed rural population requires innovative new methodologies for
project financing, design, evaluation and implementation. Possible areas for efficiency gains
include setting tariffs closer to cost recovery levels and improving approaches to rural road
maintenance. Technical standards should be adjusted to meet the specific needs, demands and
payment capacity of the dispersed rural population. Revised technical standards also require
improved evaluation methodology, to better assess the social as well as economic impact of
small-scale rural investments and to shorten the project cycle.       By increasing community
participation in design and implementation, specifically the participation of indigenous peoples
andwomen, projects will better meet localdemandsand achieve enhancedsustainability through
improvedmaintenanceandcommunity support.

Institutional development to clarify roles and fill holes in institutional framework. While
Chile has done an excellent job of buildingits national sectoral agencies andestablishing specific
ruralinfrastructure programs, more work is needed. The government should clarify and specify
appropriate roles for each level of government in ruralinfrastructure and assign responsibilities
where there are gaps, specifically in the rural water, sanitation and road sectors. There are
benefits to be gained from increased decentralization to the regional and municipal levels,
combined with community participation, and also associatedcosts of developing capacity at the
local level. However, this proposed decentralization should be accompanied by incentives and
resources for the sectoral agencies to continue to provide technical support to lower levels of
government, independent of the management of a specific investment program. In addition,
performance benchmarks should be implemented to improve the monitoring of service quality
tied to incentives for encouraging better maintenance.

Community participation and ldly-managed servicesto improve demand-responsiveness
and sustainability. Support for locally-provided service delivery models and enhanced
community participation i s necessaryto increasethe efficiency and sustainability of services, and
i s a key component of the territorial development strategy. To enhance community participation
across sectors, there is a need to expedite the legal recognition and registration process to
promote and enhance the quality of small-scale community committees, micro-enterprises and
cooperatives in service provision. Local providers should be encouraged to take on a more
entrepreneurial approachby facilitatingtheir access to private financing and specialized agencies
offering business development services. Government should develop outreach programs to build
on community-based self-help initiatives, focusing on reaching indigenous groups andwomen.

Appropriate evaluation methodology and technology selection. The territorial planning
methodology aims to increase investment impact by improving coordination of planning and
participation of private, community and public stakeholders in project design and
 implementation. In order to help rural communities obtain the bundle of infrastructure services
 necessary for a basic standard of living and economic growth, the current evaluation
 methodologies, institutional framework, and strategies for reaching dispersed rural populations
 require adjustments. Through efficiency gains, government investments can provide more rural
 inhabitants with infrastructure services and maximize social and economic development impact.
 (Also, see Annex 9).




                                                31

        Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinanced by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                           CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructure Services



                                        Project



Support the efforts o the Chilean       Social Protection         S        S
Government to implementChile            AssistanceProject
Solidario andto lay the foundation of a
nationalsystemof social protection

Improve local governanceand
efficiency inproviding public services  Municipal Development II S         S

Improvingthe effectiveness,
efficiency, andtransparency of the      Public Expenditure
Chilean public administration through   Management Project        S         S
the establishment of a modem and
integrated financial management and
resource allocationsystem

Other Development Agencies

Help improve livingconditions and      IDB:RuralElectrification
reduce social alienation among the      Program
low-income rural populations inthose
regions of the country with the lowest
ruralelectrificationcoveragerates

Improve living conditions andto         IDB:IntegralDevelopment
promote the economic, social, cultural  Programfor Indigenous
andenvironmental development of the     Communities
Aymara, Atacamefio, andMapuche
peoples inruralareas.

Support efforts to improvethe           IDB:Programfor
efficiency and managementof regional    Improvement of the
investment inthe framework of an        Efficiency and
expanded government decentralization    Management of Regional
process.                                Investment




                                                 32

World Bank

Chile: SocialProtectionTechnical AssistanceProject
The objectives of the proposed Social Protection Technical Assistance Loan Project are to
support the efforts of the Government of Chile to implement the program "Chile Solidario" and
lay the foundation of a national system of social protection. The project has the following four
components: (1) design and implementation of a national information system for social
protection; (2) training of MIDEPLAN and other government officials, at both the central and
local levels and strengthening the capacity of the social workers and others who work with the
families of Chile Solidario; (3) capacity building within the public sector to measure the impact
of Chile Solidario and its associated programs; (4) program of institutional modernization and
strengtheningfor MIDEPLAN.

Chile Municipal Development I1
The SecondMunicipal Development Project seeks to improve local governance andefficiency in
providingpublic services, by strengthening the capacity of the national government to formulate,
implement, and monitor decentralization policies and programs, and of municipalities in areas
such as municipalplanning, financial and humanresources management, and the managementof
health and education services. There are two main components: (a) policy studies in key areas;
anddeveloping action plans for implementing them; and (b) municipalinstitutionaldevelopment
subprojects that focus on internal processes and improvements; technical support to
municipality's relationship with the community; and development of innovative subprojects to
address specific municipalproblems.

Public Expenditure Management Project
The Public Expenditure Management Project aims at improvingthe effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency of the Chilean public administration, through the establishment of a modern, and
integrated financial management and resource allocation system. Within tight fiscal constraints,
project components will strengthen financial management, and accountability, through: (a) a
unified information management system, (b) strengthening the capacity to focus on
macroeconomic, fiscal, andpublic investment policies, includingbudgetingby results; (c) design
of ahumanresourcesmanagementinformation system, and (c) buildingup financial, andhuman
resourcemanagementunits.

Inter-American DevelopmentBank

Rural Electrification Program
The program's generalobjective is to help improve living conditions andreduce social alienation
among the low-income rural populations in those regions of the country with the lowest rural
electrification coverage rates, and to strengthenthe decentralization process, further buildup the
management capacity of municipal and regional governments, achieve the optimal distribution,
 and make efficient use of public resources. The program will support: (i)  creation and execution
of an incentives program to induce private investment in rural electrification for grid-extension
 and self-generation projects; (ii)strengthening the sectoral programming strategy and
formulation, design, monitoring and evaluation of rural electrification projects; and (iii)
electrification and/or improvement of the power supply to 36,600 residences, thereby helping to
 achieve the ruralelectrification coverage goal of 90% at the national and regional levels planned



                                                33

for 2006, while working to achieve sustainable investments, and improve service quality. The
program's total cost is US$57.2 million.

Integral Development Programfor IndigenousCommunities (Origenes)
The general objective of the program is to improve living conditions and to promote the
economic, social, cultural and environmental development of the Aymara, Atacameiio, and
Mapuchepeoplesinruralareas.

Programfor Improvement of the Ef'ficiency and Management of RegionalInvestment
The general objective of the program i s to support efforts to improve the efficiency and
management of regional investment in the framework of an expanded government
decentralization process.




                                             34

                               Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                                CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructureServices


                                                ResultsFramework

                                            Orttconie Indicators
Effective and                 Increaseinuseof quality andsustainable            Assess impact of enhanced
productiveuse of              servicesinthe selectedterritories, as             infrastructureservicesin users'
infrastructureservices        measuredby      6:                                perceptionsof the ultimate
by poor rural                      Water andsanitation: % of population         effects of the investmentson
communities inthe                  benefitingfromproject PMDTswith              their most immediatelivelihoods
selectedterritories of             sustainedaccess andeffective use of          andactivities
the regionsof                      servicesprovidedby the project (as
Coquimbo, Maule,                   measuredby demandfor services).
BioBio, Araucania,                 Roads: increaseduseof transport              tdentify possibleshortcomingsof
andLos Lagos                       servicesalongrehabilitatedroad               policy framework or
increased                          infrastructure(as measuredby pro-rated       infrastructuremanagemenu
                                   increaseindemandsix monthsafter              delivery mechanismsto achieve
                                   completion of works, for a                   the expectedcombinedimpacts
                                   representativesample of roads).              from the implementationof the
                                  Electrification: 9%of population              infrastructurecomponents of the
                                   benefiting from project PMDTs with           PMDTs
                                   increaseduse of electricity for economic
                                   activities (as measuredby surveys)

                              Increaseinannualproduction for the key
                              priority areas identifiedeachPMDT(note            Assess overall satisfactory
                              this indicator will betrackedseparatelyby         impact of subproject investments
                              SUBDEREas it involves abroaderset of              towards achievingthe goals of
                              actionsnot underthe control of the project)       PMDTs.

 Intermediate Results           ResultsIndicators for Each Component               tfseof ResultsMonitoring
 One per ('ompoaent
Component One:                Component One:                                    Component One:
Participatory                 Number of PMDTsapprovedby the                     Assess paceof project
Territorial Planning:         CORESinlinewith agreed standards                  implementation andcapacity to
Territorial                   including: (i)   evidenceof community,            identify aquality portfolio of
DevelopmentPlansare indigenousandgenderparticipation, (ii) infrastructure investments
preparedand                   sign-off of communitiesfor the identified         through the PMDT approach.
implemented                   investments, and (iii)  adequate                  Assess quality andlevel of
following agreed              considerationof social, environmental             participation of populationinthe
methodologyand                safeguards                                        territories inthe elaboration of
eligibility criteria                                                            the PMDTs.



'Arepresentative    number of PMDTs will be selected for evaluation every reviewing period. Baselinedata will be
collected at the initial stages of elaboration of a PMDT, providing information on access to and use of infrastructure
services for productive purposes.


                                                          35

 Component Two:          Component Two :                              2omponent Two:
 Infrastructure Service  Annual percentageof subprojects(by cost      h e s s quality of portfolio design
 Delivery: The           amount) inarepresentativesample of           owards enhancingthe processof
 availability andquality PMDTs recommendedsatisfactorilyby the        :laboration of PMDTs and
 of infrastructure       MIDEPLAN(thisprocessindicator will be        subprojectformulation
 services demandedin     maintainedinSUBDEREfiles).
 the PMDTs i s
 achievedand             Annual percentage level of compliance with
 mechanismsare put in targets set inPMDTs for                         4ssess possibleinter-agency
 placeto ensuretheir        % of water and sanitationconnections      lifficulties in coordination,
 sustainability             constructedwith serviceproviders          :owardsinforming the Directory
                            havingrevenuesgreaterthanthe cost of      3 f the Project of necessary
                            operationandmaintenance                   :orrective actions
                         0   % kilometers of roadsrehabilitated
                             with sustained routine maintenance
                             mechanismsestablished
                             % of electrification constructedwith
                             serviceprovidershavingrevenues           Assess key performance
                             greaterthanthe cost of operationand      improvementsinthe provision of
                             maintenance                              infrastructureservicesinterms of
                                                                      quality, delivery efficiency, etc.
                         Percentageof PMDTsubprojectsmanaged
                         by local organizationsor entities, with      Evaluatecommunity-based
                         adequateconsiderationof indigenousand        management mechanismswith
                         gender issues                                effective considerationof
                                                                      indigenous andwomen groupsin
                                                                      the designof management
                                                                      mechanisms
 Component Three:        Component Three:                             Component Three:
                                                                            -
 Institutional           MIDEPLANevaluationmethodology                Assess advances ininter-agency
 Strengthening:          expandedto include assessmentof projects     coordination anddevelopmentof
 Capacity inthe          within the territorial developmentapproach   knowledge inthe applicationof
 Governmentof Chile      advancedby the project.                      the territorial approach
 to deliver
 infrastructureservices  New approaches adoptedinwater and            Assess progress indefinition of
 basedon aterritorial    sanitation: (a) appropriatetechnologiesfor   key policies to achieve
 approachimproved        water for dispersedpopulationsandrural       improvements inthe water and
                         sanitation, (b) improved financial policy to sanitation sector
                         increasecost recovery, (c) legal framework
                         that would allow providershigher
                         management andrevenueraising capacity,
                         (d) assignmentof institutional
                         responsibilities for ruralsanitationand
                         water for dispersedpopulation


I                        Number of quality PMDTs(or % of
                         regional public investmentprogram)           Assess level of dissemination of
                         implementedwith atemtorial approach          the project's approaches and
                         outsideproject regionsusing non-project      lessonslearned
                         resources



                                                    36

c

g
m ogo    W
         R      g
              0 -


                E
              0

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                         CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructure Services


The project will include the following three components:

    Participatory Territorial Planning: this component will assist local stakeholders and
    regional government agencies to: (a) prepare in prioritized rural territories in the 5 project
    regions framework development plans; (b) identify demands for improved infrastructure
    services; and (c) monitor progress with the implementation of the plans.

    Infrastructure Service Delivery: this component will support: (a) prepare subproject
    proposals; (b) rehabilitation of ruralroads, and construction, rehabilitation and expansion of
    rural water, sanitation, electricity and IC1infrastructure; (c) supervision of the activities
    under (b); and(c) studies and support for the establishment andstrengthening of local service
    providers to operate, maintain and administer the services to achieve quality and
    sustainability.

    Institutional Strengthening: this component will support: (a) project coordination units at
    national and regional levels, (b) implementation of studies and capacity building to
    strengthen policies and institutions in areas of territorial planning and rural infrastructure
    service delivery, and (c) project monitoring, evaluation and learning as a contribution to
    national level expansion of the program.

Component 1 Participatory Territorial Planning (US$3.94 million)
               -
Territorial Framework Development Plans (PMDTs) will be prepared in eligible territories in
the regions of Coquimbo, Maule, Bio Bio, Araucania and Los Lagos (or any other region as
may be proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank). Prior to initiating work in any
region, SUBDERE and the Regional Governors (Intendente) will sign an Eligible Region
Agreement ("Convenio de Trubujo") to outline respective responsibilities in project
implementation. The Regional Government, in coordination with the SUBDERE, will put in
place a multi-disciplinary team in charge of coordinating and implementing the PMDT.
(Component 3 of the project will cover consultant andincremental operating costs for this team).

This component will finance the costs of consultants, workshops, and studies to: (a) prepare the
PMDTsina participatory manner with the beneficiary communities andother local stakeholders,
including the identification of the prioritized infrastructure investments; and (b) provide follow-
up support andmonitoringof the overall PMDTprocess ineachsub-territory.

PMDTpreparationwill involve an active role of local stakeholdersand continuous dialogue with
authorities of the regional government and sectoral agencies. The following steps will be
followed to preparethe PMDT andits portfolio of ruralinfrastructure projects:

1. Selection of participating territories by Regional Government and validated by the
    Regional Council and by SUBDERE, based on the following minimum eligibility criteria:
    (a) high incidence of rural poverty, (b) rural infrastructure service gaps, (c) a territorial unit



                                                 39

   that builds on existing social and economic relationships, and (d) productive potential to
   ensure long-term sustainability andviability of the territory.

   Implementation of basic socio-economic diagnostic of territory to identify key
   stakeholders, understandthe developmentpriorities andpotential, assess community demand
   for infrastructure and the linkages between infrastructure improvements and increased
   economic productivity, all with due attention to environmental conditions and considerations
   intheterritory.

   Evaluation and mapping of existing institutional actors, including public and private
   sectors and local stakeholders, and identification of on-going and planned productive and
   infrastructure investment projects andprograms.

   Preparation of the PMDT to include strategic vision for the development of the territory,
   integrated portfolio of rural infrastructure and productive support projects, prioritized in a
   participatory manner, analysis of existing resources to finance project portfolio, social
   assessment of the population, results of inter-sectoral dialogue and agreement to coordinate
   actions in the territory, local working groups formed ("mesas de trabajo") around thematic
   areas, and territorial "pacts" agreed by all stakeholders. For the preparation of the PMDTs
   environmental guidelines agreed with the CONAMA will be applied.                The regional
   environmental offices of the CONAMA (the COREMAs) will support, as to be detailed in an
   agreementbetween the SUBDERE andthe CONAMA, in the trainingof the regional entities
   andtechnical implementation unitsinthe application of the guidelines.

   Validation of PMDT by local stakeholders. This validation will take place at the Regional
   Council upon presentation by the Regional Government. At this stage, the participatory
   planningprocessshouldhave produceda set of infrastructure proposals agreeduponwith the
   beneficiary communities andlocal government entities (such as municipalmayors and, when
   applicable, provincial governors). At this stage also, the Regional Council will vet the results
   of the PMDTinthe context of other competing regional priorities. If substantial changes are
   incorporated to the set of proposals, the Regional Government (supported by the project's
   regional implementation unit) would need to revalidate the new set with the local
   stakeholders.

   Agreements (convenios)signed between communities, local actors, regional government
   and sectoralagencies for PMDTimplementation, as pertinent.

   The PMDT will be updated during project implementation, including a participatory
   evaluation of the results, and identification of a follow-up rural infrastructure investment
   program.

Component 2 InfrastructureService Delivery (US$80.29 million)
              -
The project will make available subproject grants to regional governments to cover the costs of
subproject feasibility studies and designs, and of civil works, goods, equipment, supervisory
services and training associated with the provision of locally-managed rural infrastructure
servicesintransport, water and sanitation, electricity andICT.



                                                40

The following eligibility criteria will apply to subprojects:

a) included inthe PMDTs,

b) approvedby RegionalCouncil(CORE),

c) successfully appraisedby MIDEPLAN,

d) aqualifiedtechnicalunithasbeenselectedby GOREfor implementation,

e) sustainable service delivery model and the requisite institutional strengthening mechanisms
    are identified.

The project will finance the infrastructure investments listed below, includingthe preparation of
subproject feasibility studies with the technical, social, environmental, economic and financial
aspects, as required to meet the standards of MIDEPLAN's social and economic evaluation
criteria. (Annex 9), and the studies and support for the design of sustainable service delivery
models. More details on technical design criteria, implementation arrangements and service
management arrangementsare provided for each sector.

a) upgradingof existing secondaryruralroads, paths, bridges andfoot bridges

b) rehabilitation andconstruction of pipedwater systems, pointsource water improvements, on-
    site sanitation andsewers with appropriate treatment processes

c) improving quality of conventional electricity services (to provide continuous services and to
    upgrade from single-phase to 3-phase gridconnection) and off-grid and renewable solutions
    (generators, solar panels andwind turbines)

d) expansion of the secondary telephone access network, tele-centers and Internet for schools,
    healthposts, etc

Road Sector

This component will finance the rehabilitation (of about 1,000 km7)of roads in the selected
territories to improve transportation accessibility to and from these territories. These roads,
currently largely unpaved and with poor engineering conditions, have geometric standards
reasonably adapted to the terrain and the traffic they serve, from a few vehicles a day up to 700
vehicles per day, with a high proportion of micro-buses and light (three-ton) trucks. The roads
would be identified as priority links of the territory's road network in the context of the
identificationof the infrastructure investments that are part of the PMDTs.




 This target is a preliminary estimate on the basis of the initialallocation ofproject resources to the road sector and
the average cost per kilometer o f the initial list of projects evaluated at appraisal. Since the selection of the
investments takes place in the context of the participatory workshops for the elaboration o f the PMDTs, the final
amount-as     the final amounts for the other sectors-will depend on the final combination of infrastructure sectors
that results from the investments selected inthe PMDTs.


                                                          41

The works would entail spot improvements to eliminate drainage deficiencies, correcting
existing surfaces with re-graveling, buildingretaining walls and additional drainage and erosion
control structures, and limited adjustments to the road width when required to create continuity
along specific segments of the selectedroads. With these activities, access will be substantially
improved at a low cost, bothinterms of transport time required and accessibility duringthe rainy
season, and will provide a more durable running surface all year round. Paving or realignment
are not envisaged, to avoid unnecessary high standards that will affect both cost and program
output over time.

The secondary road network i s under the direct responsibility of the Directorate of Roads
(Direction de Vialidad, DV) of MOPTT. Thus the proposed works will be coordinated with the
program of the DV, as will be the maintenance mechanisms to be implemented upon the
completion of the works. Agreement will be reachedat negotiations that the SUBDERE and the
DV will sign a Memorandum of Understanding to coordinate the outputs obtained from the
PMDTswith the DV program andensuretechnical standards inline with the expectedtraffic and
benefits of the roads, as a mechanism to ensure that the investments under the project become
connectedto the broader strategies andinvestments of the DV.

There exist other roads that often do not fall strictly under the responsibility of the DV as they
are not categorized as public roads-and   are denominated "no enrolados" since they do not have
a "rol" or name assigned to them. These roads-if         they become part of those identified as
priorities under the PMDTs-will     become "enrolled" and the activities on them also subject to
the coordination andtechnical supervision mentioned inthe previous paragraph.

In both cases, and initially, the regional and provincial offices of the DV, under the overall
oversight of the SEREMIs of the MOP, will be the selected "Technical Unit" to carry out the
pre-investment studies, the procurement process for the contracting of the identifiedworks, and
the supervision of the said works. Upon completion of these works, DV will provide technical
guidance on the maintenance program. As the project matures, the regional and provincial
offices of the DV will train municipalities in the management of the road networks and,
incrementally, transfer responsibilities for the procurement of additional works and the
supervision of maintenanceactivities.

Because of the simple nature of the rehabilitation works, it is expected they will mostly be
contracted out to local contractors. To the extent possible, and taking into consideration their
geographic proximity, these works will be procured in packages to avoid an excessive time-
consuming and piecemeal management of a large number of small contracts, take advantage of
economies of scale (particularly those derived from the use of equipment), and ensure a
coordinated implementation of the works within a territory, elements that will be hardto achieve
ifcontractsremainof very low cost.

Under this component, the Project also includes support to the establishment of labor-intensive
routine maintenance mechanisms through the hiring of members of the local population. The
road network would first need to be rehabilitated before maintenance activities begin, otherwise
the cost of maintenance becomes too high, and then that the routine maintenance can be carried
out with a mechanism that has proved useful and cost effective in many other Latin-American
countries. The routine maintenance would consist of simple works regularly performed



                                                42

throughout the year to maintainthe drainage systems, avoid the invasion of the right-of-way by
vegetation, and keeping the surface in appropriate runningcondition. These activities would be
supplementedwith labor-basedspot interventions to restore passage, particularly inthe areas and
duringthe periods with intensiverains.

The project would finance all activities related to promoting the development of micro-
enterprises for road maintenance, building on the experience of FOSIS, by financing the
technical assistance services to: (a) assist micro-enterprises throughout their formation and
constitution, including legal andtechnical advice; (b) put inplace adequate contract arrangement
and payment systems, as pertinent; (c) provide on-the-job assistancetraining on technical, work
organization, financial management/accounting, and business administration skills until micro-
enterprisemembers develop entrepreneurial capacity; (d) superviseand monitor micro-enterprise
activities to ensure smooth implementation of this maintenance mechanism during the initial
months of the establishment of the micro-enterprise; and (f) support a dissemination campaign
amonglocal governmentsto sensitizethem about the benefits of the micro-enterprise program.

The project will not finance the maintenance activities-their    cost would be covered as part of
the annual maintenance program of the DV with co-financing from the beneficiary
municipalities-but   will support the costs involved in establishing the maintenance mechanism
suggested earlier. It is further expected that the periodic maintenance activities that must take
place every three to five years to restore the condition of the surface will become incorporated
also as part of the DV "conservation" program. The project will also include as part of this
technical assistance the financing of training and dissemination workshops for building up
capacity of local entities, with an aim at improving the articulation of responsibilities at the local
level inthe management andmaintenanceof ruralroads.

Waterand Sanitation

This component will finance the rehabilitation and construction of water and sanitation facilities
in eligible communities, and consultant services and training activities required to put in place
and strengthencommunity-basedstructuresfor managing andsustainingthe services.

The project will work in two types of communities: (a) the "semi-concentrated" populations
which typically include between 500-4000 inhabitants, the majority of which have improved
piped water systems and usually improved on-site sanitation or to a lesser extent, water-borne
sewer systems, and (b) the "dispersed" populations of less than 500 people, which are often more
remote and poor and do not have improved water or sanitation systems. This component will
therefore support both the rehabilitation       and expansion or existing systems in larger
communities, as well as construction of new systems. An objective of the project is to
mainstreamthe use of more appropriate andcost effective technologies to for the ruraldispersed
population and sanitation for the larger communities (see component 3).

The type of technology andlevels of service that will be applied include:

(a) Community piped water systems with house connections: water source could include drilled
    borehole with submergible pump, spring catchment or surface water intake with treatment;




                                                43

   elevated storage tank; pump and chlorination house. National design standards for these
   systems will apply.

(b) On-site water supply improvements: protected hand-dug or drilled well with a hand-pump
   or electrical submergible pumpand a simple elevatedwater storage system for the household
    or group of households and spring catchments with small storage tanks and piped-gravity
    distribution systemto the house.

(c) Individual family on-site sanitation solutions, to include improved pit latrines, ecological
   latrines, sanitary unit "caseta sanitaria" connected to either an individual or multi-family
    septic tank

(d) In larger communities (at least 10o0 people in a concentrated community), and on an
    exceptional basis, pipedsewer systems with adequate treatment. The project will promote the
   use of lower cost and more appropriate technologies and design standards to include
    condominial and small bore sewers, and treatment options such a lagoons, aerated
    stabilization ponds, bio-filters, .etc.

Management of the community water and sanitation systems will be through a community-based
water committee or cooperative, as i s current practice in Chile. The project will provide technical
assistance for the: (a)    organizing and training the community-based water and sanitation
management structure, (b) expediting its legal recognition, (c)         analysis of a viable tariff
structure, (d) establishment of administrative and operational practices and systems, and (e)
hygiene education and community outreach to highlight the need to conserve water, pay tariffs,
and invest in improvedhygiene and sanitation practices (respecting existing cultural practices).
The community development and training processes will be implemented before, during and
after construction.

Inaddition to the generic criteria establishedabovefor subproject eligibility, water andsanitation
projects will have to meet these additional requirements:

    The choice of technical solution will be made by the beneficiaries based on a participatory
    analysis of alternatives and their commitment to pay their required share of the investment,
    operation andmaintenancecost

    The existing national financial policy, which requires virtually no community contribution to
    investmentcosts will be applied, although the project will also seek to promote increasecost
    recovery. At the very least, the community must establish and accept the tariff level required
    to cover the costs of operation, maintenance, administration and minor repairs. Should the
    national policy change, it will then be applied to this project as well.

    Self-construction will be promoted as a means of getting future beneficiaries involved in
    project implementation, increase community contribution to investment costs and as a
    strategyto implement more appropriate andcost effective technologies.

    A service management and operational structure (water committee, cooperative or
    equivalent), endorsedby the community, mustbe inplace before the subproject is approved.



                                                 44

0  In larger communities where services are being rehabilitated or expanded, the existing
   management structure must show evidence of sound financial and operational practices, and
   will be assisted by the project to obtain legal recognition, legal ownership of the water
   resources and the landon which the systems are constructed as well as the operating license
   from the Ministry of Health.

   Appropriate management structures will be established in the more dispersed communities
    either as sub-committees of larger neighboring committees, or with the traditional
   organizations of indigenous people andcommunity-based productive associations.

For water and sanitation projects in larger communities the regional offices of the Direccion de
Obrus HidruuZicas (DOH) of MOPTT will serve as technical units for project preparation and
implementation, following the usual practice of construction being contracted out to qualified
firms. For the smaller communities, in addition to DOH, other Technical Units could present
themselves, includingfor example, municipalities, legally recognized water committees, regional
water companies, NGOs, etc. They would need to show their technical capacity to implement
the work, which would be demonstrated through their ability to successfully undertake the
feasibility studies to meet MIDEPLAN standards, as well as technical approval from DOH.
Particular attention will be given to on-site water supply improvements and on-site sanitation
solutions as only municipalities are entitled to invest public funds for providing basic services in
particular properties. In addition, as the project will place considerable importance on
community development and local service managementmodels, this outreach and training work
will be contractedto qualifiedexternal organizations. Finally, DOH will continue to play its role
inproviding, either directlyor through thirdparties, technical andadministrative backstoppingto
the water committees.

Electricity

The project will finance the following types of works:

(a) expansion of two-phase or three-phase power grids to supply commerce businesses, small
    industries andother productive uses;

(b) upgradeof existing grids tothree-phasesupply for productiveuses;

(c) installation or rehabilitation of distributed systems (mini-hydropower, diesel, wind-power,
    hybridsystems), including a generationplant andagenerally two phasedistributiongrid;

(d) installation of individualsystems such as solar photovoltaic or wind home systems.

Even though the rural electrification subprojects in the pilot territories are predominantly grid
extension, with some subprojects requiring an upgrade to three-phase supply, it is likely that
decentralized systems will be identified and requested by consumers during project
implementation. The subproject identificationprocess included inthe project manual will ensure
that there is no involuntary bias against electrification demand by dispersed, remote customers
that could be supplied by distributed systems and/or individual systems at a least cost compared
to grid extension.



                                                  45

The project will apply the existing financial policy applicable inthe country, which requires that
a minimumof 10%of investment cost i s to be coveredby users for internal installation, metering
and hook-up to the grid. Subsidyrepresentsinaverage60% of investment cost, while the private
proponent puts up the difference (30%). Operation and maintenance costs are fully financed by
the private proponent, without subsidy. The average investment cost of rural electrification
projects financedunder FNDR andFNDR-ERis currently around US$1,500 per connection.

Implementation arrangementswill be designed to guarantee the sustainability of subprojects. In
the case of distributed and individual systems, in addition to the regular economic analysis
conducted by MJDEPLAN, the technical, organizational and financial capacity of the project
proponentswill be assessed andbecome an important element of subproject approval. Inthe case
of grid extension, the projects will be designed, constructed and operated by local private
distribution utilities or rural electric cooperatives. In the case of distributed and individual
systems, the implementation approaches can vary from the classical utilities, to local
entrepreneurs, consumer associations, municipalities, etc. In both cases, it will be important to
improve incentives for cost minimization and to promote the use of simplified technical
standards anddesigns. The project will also finance the establishment and strengthening of local
serviceproviders inthe case of decentralized andoff-grid systems.

Another objective will be to maximize, as applicable, the synergies and economies of scale with
other subprojects in the same territory. In particular it i s conceivable that there could be joint
arrangements between rural electrification and water and sanitation projects for part or all of
installation, O&M and commercial management in the case of decentralized systems. The
potential andjustification for joint implementation arrangements will be assessed at the stage of
project identification andprefeasibility.

Information and Communications TechnologyInfrastructure (ICI)

This component will support the financing of telecommunications infrastructure and access to
telecommunications services in rural communities in Chile. The beneficiaries will be schools,
municipalities, micro enterprises, health centers, or communities inruralChile.

Subproject implementation arrangements will be basedon the following principles: (i)    the central
role of SUBTEL in the management of project funds; (ii)       private-sector led implementation of
investment programs; (iii) use of existing mechanisms for social investments; and (iii)
                            the                                                                 the
efficient involvement of decentralized levels of the government in areas of their competency,
managedby SUBDERE.

Financing will include the subsidy to the investments to be undertaken by provide operators to
build up the connectivity to rural towns with the purpose of enhancing the access to
telecommunications services to schools, health centers, municipalities, micro-enterprises, or
communities. By bringingprivate operators to build(as well as own and operate the networks),
the model of service delivery will ensure that good management practices are used and it will
ensure the future sustainability of the proposed investments.         At the local level, schools,
municipalities, health centers, micro-enterprises, and communities, as pertinent, will administer,
use and operate the telecommunications services (such as info-centers) under the technical and
managerial oversight of the private operator, who will provide them with technical support,



                                                 46

training, and effective administration tools to ensure that the entities benefit from these
investments andthat the serviceprovision is sustainable inthe longer term.

The identification of potential localities for the implementation of these investments will be
determined by criteria defined by the Regions with SUBDERE (within the framework of a
PMDT) and by SUBTEL on a technical basis. The selection will be determined by the public
consultation process of the localities as part of the preparation of the PMDTs, and will take into
account: (a) demand expressed by localities on needs for access to modern communications
services; (b) synergy across infrastructure services to increase development impact; and (c) the
organizational capacity of the communities to benefit from these services, in terms of sharing
services among schools, municipalities, health centers, micro enterprises and other entities, and
their capacity to productively use these services. Inaddition, technical criteriawill be analyzed,
including:' (a) Service Penetration: the candidate localities must have low levels of service
penetration; and (b) Eficiency: the candidate localities preferably meet a number of socio-
economic conditions that assure futureuse of the broadband services.

Once subprojects have been identified and have satisfactorily appraised by MIDEPLAN,
SUBTEL-as        Implementation Technical Unit for the ICT subprojects-will                        prepare the bid
specifications and a draft contract for the provision of services, and oversee the invitation to bid
on the projects. Once the contract i s awarded, SUBTEL will help administer the disbursement of
the funds of the component by making payments to the operator according to the contract. In
general, these contracts will specify the payment schedules, that will be based on the actual
commencement of the delivery of services to the beneficiaries. Usually, contracts will include
initialpayments basedon the completion of detailed network design. SUBTEL will verify that
the operator has completed the roll out of the networks and has started service to the
beneficiaries to make the paymentsas agreedunder the contract.

Funds will also be made available to assist local service providers set up business models to
operate the customer interface of the service, for example for info-centers and public intranet
facilities. Linkages could be built with the other service providers whose capacity will be
strengthened by the project, including the micro-enterprises maintaining roads, rural water
committees, or electricity cooperatives.

All subprojects will need to incorporate-when                   applicable-the      requirements of the IPDP,
resettlementframework and cultural property safeguards.

Component3 Institutional Strengthening(US$5.52 million)
                 -
This overall objective of this component is to strengthen government's capacity to delivery
infrastructure services based on a territorial approach. The component will cover the costs of
consultant services, equipment, training and incremental operating costs for (a) strengthening
the capacity of national and regional agencies to implement the project, (b) conducting policy
andinstitutional reformstudies, and(c) programmonitoring, evaluation andreplication.




    ~            ~~~




  Universidadde Chile. 2003. EZaboracidnde basespara la adjudicacidndesubsidios del FDT 2003; Infonne I.Santiago, Chile.


                                                          47

Subcomponent A: Strengthening Capacity of government to Implement a Territorial
Development Program As described in the project implementation arrangements, Territorial
Development Units will be established in SUBDERE and in each of the five regional
governments. As a result of the capacity that will be built in these units through their role in
project implementation, it i s expectedthat the unitswill continue after the project is completed as
they will have qualified staff in place who are able to implement demand-responsive, locally-
managedinfrastructure services following a territorial approach andensuring wide cross-sectoral
coordination, with appropriate incorporation of the actions neededfor application of social and
environmental safeguards (as detailed in Annex 10). In addition to strengthening the regional
governments and SUBDERE, this sub-component will also have resources available to provide
training to the associated implementation agencies, including: MOPTT, SUBTEL, CNE and
others. This training will encompass: (a) participatory planning; (b) application of social and
environmental safeguards; (c) procurement; (d) project management; and (e) monitoring and
evaluation.

SubcomponentB. Policy Improvements This component will also support the implementation
of studies and discussion fora to improve government's policy and institutional framework
related to the following issues:

    Methodologies for the social and economic evaluation of projects based on a territorial
    approach, as well as development of streamlined procedures for approving simple, low-cost
    projects insmallcommunities

    New approaches in the water and sanitation sector related to: (a) an improved institutional
    framework for attending rural dispersed populations and addressing sanitation, including
    support for developing a new Law of Rural Sanitary Services (Ley de Sewicios Sanitarios
    Rurales), (b) improved financial policies to increase cost recovery, (c) introduction of more
    appropriate and lower cost technologies, and (d) expedited legal recognition of local service
    providers

    Development of a rural transport policy including: (a) enhancements to current subsidy
    schemes for transport services in isolated areas; (b) identification of road safety issues inthe
    rural(secondary) network and strategies for their attention; and (c) definition of a medium-
    terms strategy for clarifying and transferring responsibilities to local municipalities and
    communities inthe management of the roadnetwork within their jurisdictions.

Subcomponent C: Monitoring, Evaluation (M&E) and Program Expansion. An M&E
system, including the collection of baseline data, will be established in SUBDERE This
component will also support the information dissemination, learning and communications
processes to systematize good practices and build a foundation for expanding the program to the
entire country.




                                                 48

EstimatedCosts

The estimated cost for each component i s summarized inthe table below.

                            EstimatedCost of each Component (US$thousand)
                                                                 Counternart WB loan.
                                                                 ---..--. -. - -.- --.
                                                                                  .      Total
                                                                                         .
ParticipatoryTerritorial Planning
 Elaborationand approvalof PDTs                                       1,125        2,625      3,750
                                                        Sub-total      1,125       2,625      3,750
InfrastructureServiceDelivery
 Pre-investmentprojectformulation                                     2,400        5,600      8,000
 Executionof investments                                             31,760       31,760     63,520
 Supervisionof executionof investments                                  703         1,640     2,343
 Supportto establishinglocalmanagementmechanismsfor O&M                 782         1,825     2,607
                                                        Sub-total    35,645       40,825     76,470
InstitutionalStrengthening
 Strengtheningcapacityto implementterritorialdevelopmentprogram         905         2,112     3,017
 Policyimprovements                                                      165          385       550
 Monitoring& evaluation, and program expansion                           375          875     1,250
 Incrementaloperatingcosts                                               132          308       440
                                                        Sub-total      1,577        3,680     5,257
Contingencies                                                          1,653        2,879     4,532
Front-endfee                                                                          251       251
Grandtotal                                                           40,000       50,260     90,260




                                                49

                                             Annex 5: Project Costs
                             CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructureServices


Project Cost By Componentand/or Activity                            Local            Foreign            Total
                                                                US $million       US $million       US $million
Participatory Territorial Planning                                   3.38               0.38            3.75
Pre-investmentActivities                                             7.20               0.80             8.00
InfrastructureServiceProvision                                      50.19              15.67           65.86
Support to Managementof InfrastructureServices                        1.82              0.78             2.61
Institutional Strengthening                                          2.53               0.49             3.02
Policy Improvements                                                  0.37               0.18             0.55
M&EandProgramExpansion                                               0.88               0.37             1.25
IncrementalOperatingCosts                                            0.42               0.02             0.44
Total BaselineCost                                                  66.79              18.69            85.48
 Contingencies                                                       3.54               0.99             4.53
                                         TotalProject Costs'        70.33              19.68            90.01
                                 Interestduringconstruction          0.00                0.00            0.00
                                                  Front-endFee       0.00                0.25            0.25
                                 Total FinancingRequired            30.33              19.93            50.26

1Identifiable taxes and duties are US$15.86 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$74.40 million.
Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 82%.




                                                         50

                            Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                         CHILE: Chile RuralInfrastructure Services


The project will be implemented following a territorial approach to the identification of needs
and the execution of the selected infrastructure investments and the subsequent operation and
maintenance. As such, the project will devolve responsibilities to the regional and local levels
towards entrusting the relevant entities and technical units with the participatory planning
process and the procurement and supervision of project investments. In this process, the
principle is not to create new institutionalitybut rather to utilize existing institutions, adequately
supported when required by project managers and technical specialists. This scheme also
requires a large coordination effort that will be achieved through specific directorates or
commissions where the representatives of the key entities at the national, regional or local levels
will be represented.

The key managementandcoordinating unit-Unidad          de Gerenciamiento y Desanollo or UGD-
will be located at the SUBDERE, while the key implementation units-Unidades                        de
Gerenciamiento Regional or UGRs-will         be located one at each of the Regional Governments
where the investmentswill take place. The actual technical oversight and implementation of the
project will be entrusted to selected Implementation Technical Units (the so-called "Unidudes
Tecnicus" inthe Chilean framework) at the regional level-those that would normallybe units of
the corresponding sectoral ministries or entities.     The SUBDERE, through the UGD, will
monitor compliance with the requirements and procedures established in the Loan Agreement
and the Project Operational Manual, and as such will be responsible for overseeing the
satisfactory implementation of the project. The SUBDERE, also through the UGD, will be
responsible for monitoring the achievement of the projects development objectives and
performance indicators and in charge of providing technical assistance-directly or through the
contracting of specializedconsultants-to the entities at the regional andlocal levels.

A steering committee at the national level-the     National Directorate-with       key representatives
from the sectoral and planning ministries and institutions, would ensure that the strategic
directives of the project are agreed upon and properly coordinated. This type of committee
would also be constituted by the regional governments for the purpose of promoting and
advancing the territorial approach at the regional level. At the level of territories structured
participatory processes and fora will ensure the adequate incorporation of local needs and
priorities andthe equaltreatment of community groups.




                                                 51

Inbrief, the specific overall responsibilities of each institutiodentity are as follows:



 National Directorate


 SUBDERE



 UGD(Program of Rural
 Infrastructure)
 RegionalGovernments           Leading agents in identifying territories, backing the efforts for the
                               elaboration of the PMDTs, andpresenting the proposals to the Regional
                               Councils for their validation
 Regional Councils             Responsible for validating the selection of territories and the list of
                               priority infrastructure investments identified inthe PMDTs
 UGR                           Regional units of the SUBDERE,              endorsed by the Regional
                               Governments, incharge of project management at the regional level and
                               managing the elaboration of PMDTs
 Implementation Technical      Incharge of overseeingthe technical quality of the implementation of
 Units                         the projects, from their design to carrying out the procurement of works,
                               contract management, and the supervision of their execution, to be
                               "contracted" by the Regional Governments (with the support and
                               oversight of the UGRs) through the "convenios mandato"
 Territorial committees (ad-   Coordinating body in each territory and oversight of PMDT
 hoc)                          implementation
 Local actors: municipal       Participate actively in the elaboration of PMDTs and in the ultimate
 mayors, producers,            selection of investment priorities inthe territories
 communities, etc.



The following tables detail the entities with a stake in project implementation and their
responsibilities, divided by national, regional and territorial levels.




                                                    52

                                                National

                HcsixmsihilitiesI (`omposition (whenapplicable)
iational        Responsibilities:
)irectorate     Strategicsupervisionof project implementation,providing the strategic view of its
                principles andpolicies.
                Coordination among institutions involvedinproject activities.
                Provision of politicaVinstitutiona1support to project implementationandagrees on overall
                budgetarystrategies to support territorial approach to investments.
                Composition:
                Constitutedwith Undersecretariesfrom MinHacienda, MIDEPLAN, MOPTT, Ministries of
                Economy and Agriculture, SUBDERE, andMinistryof Economy, calling on other
                entities-SUBTEL, CNE, CONADI-when             discussingissues that involve specific sectors
                or indigenouspeoples as relevant.
                To bechairedby the SUBDERE. The SUBDERE would alsobe, through its Regional
                DevelopmentDivision, the technical secretariatof the Directory. As necessary, ad-hoc
                technicalcommissionsmay beconstitutedto address specific project issues or themes.
XJBDERE         Responsibilities:
                Managementof the project and administration of project resources, through a "management
                anddevelopmentunit" within the RegionalDevelopmentDivision.
                Monitoringof compliancewith relevantrequirementsof the LoanAgreement andthe
                ProjectOperationalManual andevaluates implementation progress and impacts.
                Procurementof technical assistanceactivities.
                Convening meetingsof the National Directory(at leastone every four months) andpresents
                progress reportsand work-program proposalsand policy strategies.


vlanagement and Responsibilities:
Ievelopment     Administration of the project andthe day-to-day communicationswith the World Bank and
Jnit (Unidad de project implementationentities at the regional levelandtechnical units.
jerenciamiento y Signing-off onthe transfer of resources to the regional implementation unitsbasedon loan
lesarrolloor    agreementprocedures.
JGDof the       Technical secretariat of the SUBDERE for project activities,
'rogram of Rural Provision of technicalassistanceto the regional entities (by itself or through contractswith
nfrastructure)   specializedconsultants).
                 Recollection and analysis of information on project implementation progress
                 Provision of information on monitoring compliance with loan agreement andproject
                 operationalmanualprocedures.
                 Monitoring andevaluationof achievementof objectives andresults (perfomanceindicators:
                 of the project.
                 Analysis of experiences andproposalsfor correctionsto strategies andcourses of actions to
                 enhance project effectiveness.
                 Composition:
                 Managementunit within the Regional DevelopmentDivisiBnof the SUBDERE, staffed
                 with contractedprofessionals. Consisting of aheadandupto sevenprofessionalswith
                 specializationon: project management, social and environmental safeguards, procurement,
                 engineering, and economics.




                                                    53

                                                  Regional

               Responsibilities/ ('omyosition (when applicable)
3ead of        Responsibilities:
iegional       Definitionof mechanismfor integral management of territorial developmentand
3ovemment      operationalizesthat mechanism.
Intendente)    Subscriptionof EligibleRegional Agreement(convenio de trubajo)with the SUBDERE.
               Subscriptionof SubprojectImplementationAgreements (conveniosmandam)with technical
               units incharge of designingand implementing projects.
               Creationof the RegionalManagementUnit(UGR) andnominatesits staff inconsultation
               with the SUBDERE.
               Definitionof proposalsof territories and investmentpackagesgeneratedthroughthe PMDTs
               for presentationto the CORE.
               Compositionof supportteam:
               The Intendenteselects andmobilizes representativestaff from the sectors (SEREMIS) and
               SERPLAC, andthe CONADIinthe relevantcases, and nominatessecretary (e.g., Chief of
                Staff, SERPLAC, chief of the DACG) for Projectimplementation follow-up, with an aimat
               promoting territorial approach, buildingupalliances for coordination at the regional level,
               with the CORE, the sectors, andmunicipal andlocalentities, and supportingthe Intendenteir
               presentations at the CORE.
Zegional       Responsibilities:
Zouncil         Approval of the "Convenio de Trabajo" to be subscribe by the RegionalGovernment with the
:Consejo        SUBDEREfor the implementationof Project activities inthe Region.
Regionalor      Validation of territories identified by the Headof the RegionalGovernment (Intendente).
ZORE)           Endorsingthe PMDTs andapprovingthe allocation of resourcesto the PMDT investment
               programincludingthe list of ruralinfrastructure investmentsubprojectsinthe selected
                territories, inagreement with the National InvestmentSystem(SNI).
Regional        Responsibilities:
Management      Oversightof the implementationof the project cycle ip the selected territory.
Unit (Unidad de Definition and establishmentof the linkswith the technical units for the executionof the
Serenciamiento projects(inall its phases: design, execution, supervision) and preparesthe convenios
Regionalor      mandutofor the signatureof the Intendente.
UGR)            Responsiblefor presentingto the SNIa solidportfolioof eligible subprojectsfor financing
                under the project, with due considerationof the procedures and provisions of the Project
                OperationalManual.
                Participation (through its head) inthe coordinating instances at the regional and locallevels.
                Definition and implementationof amanagement mechanism(to be endorsed by the UGD)to
                monitor actions of technical units, to ensure adherenceto procurementproceduresand other
                arrangementsestablishedin the Project OperationalManual.
                Alerting the RegionalGovernmentandthe UGDon difficulties inproject implementation and
                lessonslearned.
                Generationand submissionof information to the RegionalGovernment andthe UGDon
                project outputs, indicators andperformance
                Composition:
                Staff nominatedby the Regional Government(Intendente) inagreement with the SUBDERE.
                Normally, constitutedby a headand up to three professionals, with qualifications to
                effectively managethe elaborationof PMDTs and monitor the implementation of subprojects
               by the implementation technical units (specializationsinparticipatory planning and
                infrastructuretechnical issues). Theseprofessionalswill become"managers" of anumberof
                PMDTs.



                                                      54

                                                   Territorial


rerritorial          Responsibilities:
Zommittee            Oversightof the elaboration, implementationand evaluationof the Territorial Development
                     Plans (PMDTs), ensuringthey areconsistentwith the directives of the regionalentities and
                     within the methodologicalparametersdefined inthe Project OperationalManual.
                     Promotion of the territorial approach inthe territories
                     Composition:
                     Though its compositionwill vary from region to region, it would include representatives
                     from the involved municipalities or associations of municipalities, the regional councilors,
                     andthe directors of the infrastructuresectors or services within the territory.
                     Chairedby the provincial governor or the chief of the territorial entity selectedand
                     delegated by the "Intendentes."
Municipal majors     Responsibilities:
                     Facilitation, inaparticipatory manner, of the definition and the prioritization of
                     interventionsunderthe infrastructurecomponentof the PMDT (the PiRDT) at the
                     community level.
                     Reporting to the municipal councilorsabouttheprogressinthe implementationof the
                     investmentprogramof the PMDTs.
                     When pertinent, approvalof initial permits and of final receptionof works (particularly for
                     water and sanitation subprojects)
                     When PROFIMProject is present, promotion of common efforts ininstitutional
                     developmentto achievesynergies inthe strengtheningof capacitiesat the locallevel.
                     Further coordination shouldbeundertakenwith other programsat the municipal level (suck
                     as the "Programa de Mejoramiento deBarrios."
Productive,          Responsibilities:
cultural or social   Participation on the definitionof needsand socialandeconomic priorities inthe territories.
territorially-based  Provisionof information relatedto localrealities for the elaborationof PMDTsandthat for
organizations9       thejustification of the worthinessof alternativeprojects.
                     Definition of alternativeoptionsto solve the possiblebottlenecksfor expandingproductive
                     activities.
                     Can becomeagents for the operationandmaintenanceof the executedinvestments.
Localdevelopmenl Responsibilities:
agents and entities To be consultedon aregularbasisabout the localneeds andcurrent programsin supportof
                     socialandeconomic initiatives inthe territory.
                     Participation in workshops (mesas) organizedinthe process of elaborationof the PMDTs
                     (andPIRDTs)towards achievingan adequate coordination of interventions,
                     Consist of private localorganizationsandpublic entities with initiatives or programswithin
                     territories: CONADI (On'genes), INDAP,FOSIS, SERCOTEC, ONG's, etc.




   Neighborhoodcommittees or association, indigenouscommunities or associations, agriculturalassociations,
 irrigationcommittees or association, cooperatives or associationsrelated to the fabricationof local productsor
 deliveryof services (tourism), women groups, youth groups, healthcommittees, other groups. Also members of
 organizationsinvolvedinrural development, promotionof productiveactivities(including those as fishing or
 tourism).



                                                         55

The interrelationships among the various institutions listed above and the agreements to be
reachedamong them are representedschematically inthe graph below.


                       Schematic representationof institutionalframework




                                Frameworkdefmition, approval
                                of program. evaluation      14  Decw with res+nsiRiiities<i




               lmpbtnenlution
                ("Conveniosde




The interrelations among the different stakeholders will be governed mainly through the
following inter-institutional documents andagreements(or "convenios"):

    The Decree for the establishment of the National Directorate. This decree will specify the
    overall framework for the participation of the entities that are part of that Directorate and
    their overall responsibilities inparticular: (a) for the sectoral agencies, interms of nominating
    the relevant Implementation Technical Units when selecting in the regions and ensuring that
    they cany out their duties ina timely and efficient fashion; and (b) for MIDEPLAN, interms
    of advancing the evaluation framework along the territorial approach and guaranteeing that
    the evaluation process of projects takes place within reasonable periods of time and with
    methodologies that are commensurate with the size andcharacteristics of the projects.

    Eligible Region Agreements ("Convenio de Trubujo") between the SUBDERE and the
    Regional Zntendentes (who are executive heads of the regional governments andchairs of the
    regional councils, as regulated by Law No. 19175 of January 2003). This agreements
    establish the administrative and fiduciary responsibilities, including those related to social
    and environmental safeguards, as specified in the Project Operational Manual, and the
    reporting requirements from the regional governments to the SUBDERE.


                                                            56

   Subproject Implementation Agreements ("Convenio Mandata") between the Regional
   Government andthe selectedImplementation Technical Unitfor carrying out the investments
   (subprojects) within a particular sector in a region. These agreements must include at a
   minimum the responsibilities in ensuring the technical quality of the design and the
   implemented works, including those related to the social and environmental safeguards, the
   procurement regulations and procedures, any possible contract management issues, the
    supervisory and reporting requirements, the financing arrangement for the administration of
    these activities, and the transfer mechanisms of completed works for their operation and
    management. The Project Operational Manuali s part of these agreements. The UGR will be
   responsible for overseeing of this agreements (with support from the Regional Control Unit
    of the SUBDEREinthe respective region).

    At the regional level, as required by the characteristics of the territories and subprojects,
    specific Memoranda-of-Understanding will be signed between the Regional Governments
    and the CONADI, with the ratification of MIDEPLAN, to ensure the exchange of
    informationand support inaddressingindigenous peoples and adequately incorporating them
    into the participatory methodology and the evaluation of project outcomes. This mechanism
    seeks to articulate the project with the current indigenous .peoples development plans
    elaboratedby the CONADIinthe pertinent territories.

The SUBDERE has experiencemanagingprojects for the World Bank (Municipal Strengthening
Projects Iand IIand the PHRD Grant that financed project preparation activities) and for the
IDB (most recently, a Rural Electrification Project), and is then familiar with procurement,
disbursements, environmental and social guidelines, and auditing requirements. The UGD will
be headed by an executive coordinator and assisted by other adequate professional staff with
expertise in engineering of rural infrastructure, procurement, social and environmental
guidelines, andeconomic and monitoring methodologies. The UGDwill rely on the SUBDERE
financial systems (those being used for the FNDR) for the purpose of tracking financial flows,
managing the transfer of resources to the implementation units in the regions, and complying
with the audit requirements. The staffing of the UGD with professionals in number and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bankwill be a conditionof effectiveness.

At the regional level, the establishment of the UGR-with        professionals in number and with
qualifications acceptable to the SUBDERE-will        be a condition for initiating disbursements in
the eligible regions. The SUBDERE will submit to the Bank for its no objection the justification
of the staffingplanfor eachUGRandthe provide documentation on the setting up of the UGR as
evidence of the appropriate creation of that unit at the regional level. This documentation should
also detail the establishment of the complementary entities at the regional and territorial levels,
as defined inthe previous table.

Project cycle

The report on "Estrategia de Diseiio lnstitucional para la Operacidn del Programa de Inversidn
en Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial" details the specific steps to be
undertakenupto the selection andimplementation of aparticular project. These steps are partof
the Project Operational Manual, currently being developed. The completion of this manualwith
the scope and extent satisfactory to the Bankis a conditionof effectiveness.


                                                 57

              Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                          CHILE: Chile RuralInfrastructure Services


Introduction

The overall responsibility for project implementation andcoordination will rest with SUBDERE,
through the Management and Development Unit (UGD), within the Direccidn de Desarrollo
Regional    (DDR). Regional governments will be in charge of the execution of the rural
infrastructure investment plans, using the existing legal and fiduciary framework of the FNDR.
The FNDRwas establishedby Decree 573/74, by the Government of Chile to decentralizepublic
investment at regional level, and works under the overall supervision of SUBDERE.

For the infrastructure component the project will rely on the existing country systems using the
already established fiduciary framework in FNDR (Financial Management policies and
procedures and fiduciary controls). FNDRs financial management system provides support to
the control environment in which the operation will take place. The Financial Management
assessment has found that the proposed arrangements are satisfactory and in compliance with
Bank policies and the only specific action required is a project audit report under acceptable
terms of referencewith a single audit opinion. No additional project FMstaff i s required for this
project.

The Borrower `s proposed accounting arrangementsfor the project comprise both the financial
management system of the FNDR and a dedicated budget , accounting and reporting system
used for FNDR - IDB project. The current FNDRs financial management system provide
support to the control environment inwhich the operation will operate

The Bank has concluded the assessment of the financial accountability arrangements and
reviewed regional fiduciary systems and concluded that proposed project financial management
arrangementssatisfy the Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements, They include the
accounting and budgeting, preparation of financial reports, and auditing in accordance with
international accounting and auditing standards.

Flow of Fundsand DisbursementArrangements

Transaction-based Disbursements will be followed, in accordance with established Bank
procedures, e.g., reimbursement of Government pre-financed expenditures, replenishment of the
Special Account basedon full documentation and/or Statement of Expenditures, direct payments
and Special Commitments.

Retroactive financing up to 10 % of the Loan amount is proposed for the project and will allow
the project to obtainenough resources in Chilean pesos to pre-finance expenditures. The project
will operate by the Government pre-financing expenditures and after expenditures are made
requestingreimbursingto the Bankto a local currency Account, at Central Bank of Chile, which
i s under the responsibility of the General Treamry of the Ministry of Finance and i s subject to
budgetary controls. The option to open a Special Account will be maintained in the legal



                                               59

 agreementto allow SUBDEREuse this option incase of necessity. The authorized allocation for
 the Special Account is recommendedto be set up to five million dollars which represents 10 %
 of loan and allows the project afford external financing for at least four months of operation
 expenditures.

 The project will request access to Bank's Client Connection webpage to get the 1903 Form from
 the web and to performon a periodic basis the reconciliation processbetween their bank account
 andthe resourcesreceivedfromthe different sources.

 Loanproceedswould bedisbursedagainst the expenditure categories:


 Project Cost Ry ('ategory                             Amounts allocated I,wn        I  of
                                                            Inmillion           Expendituresto
t                                                                                heFinanced
 1. Subprojects                                                       39.00
     (a) Works andgoods                                 31.76                        50%
      (b) Consultants' services                         7.24                         70%
      (pre-investment studies andsupervision)
 2. Consultant ServicesandTraining                                    7.57
 (other than subprojects)
     (a) Elaboration of territorial development         2.63                         70 %
     framework plans
     (b) Supportto servicemanagementmechanisms          1.83                         70 %
I    (c) Institutional strengthening, supportto         3.12                         70 %
     management units, systematization, dissemination,
     impact evaluationandmonitoring, andtraining




 The disbursementscheduleplanned for this project i s presentedbelow:




                                                   60

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):

The types and thresholds for SOE/Summary Sheets is recommended to be set aligned with
procurement prior review threshold (to be added as per LOA requirements). These arrangements
will be confirmed during negotiations and reflected in the minutes of negotiations and
disbursement letter to the Borrower.

Accounting andReportingArralagements

All of the project's operations will flow through the General Budget of SUBDERE. SUBDERE
budget structure will be modified to allow a specific identification of the project in SUBDERE
budget execution to facilitate the control and supervision of this project under Chile's public
expenditure system. The accounting will be kept in the SUBDERE's controller system
(METASYS or a subsequent one) for FNDR under a separate ledger. Accounting reporting will
follow Chile's public sector accounting standards and the accounting procedures set by the
accounting division of the Contraloria General de la Repxiblica (CGR). The public sector
accounting rules are comprehensive andconsistent with public international standards. They are
set by the CGR and entities are responsible for developing and maintaining their own accounts
within the rules''.

SUBDERE will also be in charge of supervising the technical assistance plan and monitoring
key indicators for the project.

The Borrower will prepare quarterly FinancialMonitoring Reports which will submitted to the
Bank within 45 daysof the endof each quarter.The first quarterly FMRswill be submittedafter
the end of the first full quarter after disbursements commence. FMRs format will be part of the
FMAnnex of the OperationalManual.

AuditingArrangements

Project's annual financial statements will be audited under acceptableTerms of Referenceby the
Chile Supreme Audit Organization (Contraloria de la Repdblica - CGR) and will present to the
Bank the audit report within six monthsof each fiscal year. The World Bank New Audit Policy
applies to this project, and the Terms of Reference will request under a scope acceptable to the
bank a single audit opinion on special accounts, project accounts, and statement of expenditures
(SOE) and will be part of the FM Annex of the Operational Manual. The fiscal year is the
calendar year.

RiskAnalysis

Proposed financial management arrangements were assessed and found acceptable. Control risk
can be consideredlow on the basis of the strengthsof the systems andthe oversight from country
fiduciary controlsystems. Hence the controlrisk is considered low.




loChile: Report on the Observance of Standard and Codes - Fiscal Transparency Module, IMF,August 2003.


                                                     61

                                      sector inbudgetmanagement; also it has anexcellentrecordin
                                      executionof Bankprojects.
    Entity Specific          Low      Subject to rigorouscontrol of Chile's financial management
                                      arrangements.
                             Low      FMoperations mainly embeddedinFNDRexecutionsubjectto
                                      public sector fiduciary control. Managementhas experiencein
                                      project executionandis very conscious infinancial management
                                      matters.


     ManagementSystem                  of accounts to beconditions 0; effectiveness.
   I InternalControl         Low
     Framework                       I Chile'sPublic Sector control framework inplacefor this project.



Action Plan and Condition of Eflectiveness

The following action must becompletedprior to Effectiveness:

0  A project operational manual Annex approved by the Bank which documents additional
   procedures and requirements for the project including accounting system, internal controls,
   planning, budgeting, financial reporting system (including format and contents of the
   Financial MonitoringReports and chart of accounts), auditing anddisbursing.

SUPERVISIONPLAN

                                        Mechanism                 [ Objective
Visit          GeneralSupervision:      Integrating supervision     0  Review FMsystem.
               Twice a year for first   missionsat least one        0   SuperviseReimbursingandor
               year, for following      time each semester.             SpecialAccount
               years, with the mid                                      Reconciliation. Useof funds.
               term review and                                          Follow upon External Auditors
               completion if                                            recommendations/raised
               unqualified opinion is                                   issues.
               given, ifnot once a                                      Review staffing.
               year.
FMR Review With each report             Over the FMR                0   Review FMRinformation
                                        submittedto the Bank.           consistency.
                                                                    0   Raiseissues disclosedinFMR.
Audit          Once aYear               Over the Audit Report       0   Review Audit Report.
Review                                  submittedto the Bank        0   Raiseissues disclosedinAudit
                                                                        ReDort




                                                  62

                                     Annex 8: Procurement
                         CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructureServices

A) General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description of various
items under different expenditure categories is described below.           For each contract to be
financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
needfor pre-qualification, estimatedcosts, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
betweenthe Borrower andthe Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project would pertain to the following
Sectors: (i)  water and sewerage; (ii)bridge and roads; (iii)electrification; and (iv)
telecommunications, all of them to be constructed inthe territory of eligible Regions within the
Chilean territory. Works would be small and the cost-estimate for the individual contracts i s
expected to be below $1 million. Pre-qualification and ICB procedures are not deemed
necessary, due to the small amount of the contracts. NCB procedures would be followed for
contracts estimated to cost up to $5 million. There will be no other contracts above $5 million
andtherefore no ICB. Shopping procedures might be followed for contracts estimated to cost
less than $45,000, which is the threshold establishedby local legislation.

The procurement under NCBwould be doneusingSector NationalSBD satisfactory to the Bank,
which would substantially follow: (a) the Bank SBD for ICB, as format and organization i s
concerned, and (b) the bidding documents currently used by Sector Technical Units located in
the Regions (TUs), with the necessary amendments to make them consistent with Bank policies
andprocedures, as languageis concerned. Inspite of the foregoing, Sector InterimNational SBD
satisfactory to the Bank, which would be based upon those bidding documents currently being
used by TUs, as amended to make them consistent with Bank policies and procedures. The
above-mentioned Sector Interim National SBD might be used for Advance Contracting, as
defined in paragraph 1.9 of the Procurement Guidelines, and for the biddingprocesses to be let
during one year after Loan Effectiveness. Notwithstanding the Special Procurement Conditions
listed in E) and taking into consideration that annual investments under the project would
representjust one per cent (1%) of the annual investment inpublic works inChile, the Borrower
and the Bank agreed that the above mentioned National SBD for NCB would include the
following features: (i)  the two-envelope procedure, provided that the safety of the second
envelope i s warranted until its opening and that the evaluation of the first envelope is done
within reasonable short time, and (ii)    the employment of registries in replacement of post-
qualification procedures for firms established locally, provided that the SBD include post-
qualification requirements for foreign firms equivalent to those of the registries and the post-




                                                 63

qualification of foreign firms is done by the contract evaluation committee and not by the
registry's authorities.

CDD Procurement: The proposed loan would also finance small electrification, water and
sanitation, and telecommunication subprojects following CDD approach. As evidenced in the
pilot territories surveyed during project preparation, most electrification and telecommunication
subprojects, and some water and sanitation subprojects would be of very small amount and
scattered geographically and in time, with few possibilities of aggregation. These subprojects
would be proposedby local private or public entities, such as: distribution utilities, cooperatives,
entrepreneurs, consumer associations andor municipalities (hereinafter called "CDD entities").
In order to ensure transparency and equal access to funds, the Regional Governments would
advertise the opportunity of getting subsidies ina newspaper of national circulation. The projects
would be evaluated by the application of the MIDEPLAN economic evaluation methodology,
further approved by the Regional Governments and implemented by the proposing organization
under the supervision of the Regional Governments. The overall technical supervision of the
works would be, for electrification, the NationalElectrification Commission (CNE), for the ICT,
the Deputy Secretariat of Telecommunications (SUBTEL) of the MOPTT, and for water and
sanitation, the Directorate of Hydraulic Works (DOH), also of the MOPTT. Detailed procedures
for the allocation of subsidies to finance goods/works would be included in the Project
Operational Manual. Two different methodologies have been designed for the carrying out of
these subprojects:

    1. Financing of subsidies: The contracting would follow the CDD entities' own procedures:
        commercial practices or local procedures depending upon the proposing organization
        being a private or a public entity, respectively. In order to ensure cost-efficiency, the
        amounts of the subsidies would be a percentage of the total construction costs, which
        would result from de application of standard unitary-costs, regardless of actual contract
        amounts. This approach would be applicable to electrification, water and sanitation, and
        telecommunication subprojects with aggregate amounts not exceeding the equivalent of
        $lOO,O00 per proposing organization. Above said amount, other Bankprocedures should
        be followed (NCB/shopping/direct contracting).
    2. Construction by the Community: Manpower would be provided by the community that
        would benefit from the subproject under the supervision and guidance of individual
        consultants. The procurement of goods (i.e., construction materials) would follow the
        CDD entities' own procedures: commercial practices or local procedures, depending
        upon the proposing organization being a private or a public entity, respectively. This
        approach would be applicable to water and sanitation investments with aggregate
        amounts not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 per proposing organization.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would be limited to office
computing equipment to be procured through ChileCompra, which procedures (namely,
framework agreements) have been acceptedby the Bank as equivalent to Shopping (for contracts
below $100,000).




                                                64

Procurement of non-consulting services: Non-consulting services under this project are limited
to those necessary to deliver training activities (Le,, facilities and services for workshops) and
would be procuredfollowing localprocedures.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting Services under this project would include services to be
provided by firms, such as: (i)elaboration of PDTs, (ii)  sub-project formulation, (iii)supervision
of works, (iv) support to establishing local management mechanisms for O&M, (v) studies on
methodologies and policies, and (vi) project monitoring and evaluation. Consulting Services
under this project would also include services to be provided by individuals, such as: (i)
consultants for management units, (ii) and (iii)
                                           training              formulation of national program.
Consulting Firms would be selected following QCBS. CQ might be followed for contracts
estimatedto cost $l00.O00 or less. Single Source Selection might be used for contracting NGOs
and legally established communities for the preparation of PDTs under contracts estimated to
cost $20,000 or less. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000
equivalent per contract may be composedentirely of national consultants in accordancewith the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Individual consultants might be
selectedfollowing SectionV of the Consultant Guidelines.

Operational Costs would be procured using the implementing agency's administrative
procedures, which were reviewed andfound acceptableto the Bank.This includestransportation
fares, travel expenses andper diem, either related to training or supervisionactivities.

Additional Use of ChileCompra: ChileCompra would be used for advertising invitations to bid
and requests of expression of interest for consultants, and to publish information on contract
award, as mandatedby locallegislation.

Others: None.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implement procurement

An assessment of the capacity of the Operational Department of the Regional Development
Division of SUBDERE, which would be in charge of procurement actions and supervision for
the project, has been carried out by Andrks Mac Gaul, Procurement Specialist (LCOPR). The
Procurement Capacity Assessment report is contained in the Aide Memoire resulting from the
mission to Santiago that took place on the week starting on August 16, 2004. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between
the PCU andthe implementing agencies.

Procurement activities concerning civil works will be carried out by various TUs under the
supervision of the existing Regional Control Units (UCRs) and of the above-mentioned
Operational Department. For works in roads and bridges, the TUs would be the Regional
Directorates of Road of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications
(MOPTT) and for works concerning water and sewerage, the TU would be the Hydraulic
Department of the M O R T . Procurement of Goods and Selection of Consultants would be
carried out directly by the Operational Department of SUBDERE. CDD Procurement would be
carried out by CDD entities.



                                                 65

Most of the issues/risks concerning procurement have been identifiedandinclude that:

  1. The CPAR for Chile carried duringCY2003 revealed that local legislation and practices
      differ from Bank rules inmany aspects.
  2. Due to the limited participation of the Bank in the financing of works in Chile, none of
      the implementing agenciesfor the investment components has any previous experiencein
      Bankprocurement.
  3. The above i s compounded by the fact that SUBDERE itself or its personnel do not have
      experience inthe procurementof works.
  4. Moreover, due to the fact that SUBDERE and the implementing agencies have
      implemented various projects under similar organizational arrangements but following
      rules that are different from the Bank's, it is expected that there will be some reluctance
      to changing the establishedmodus operandi.

The corrective measuresthat havebeenagreed are:

   1. Before Negotiations, the Operational Department would recruit under TORs acceptable
      to the Bank one (1) full-time Civil Works Procurement Expert with 5 years of experience
      inthe contracting of civil works.
  2. Before Negotiations, the Operational Department would hire under TORs acceptable to
      the Bank one (1) part-time Procurement External Advisor with 5 years of experience in
      the contracting of civil works under Bank rules. His most important duty would be the
      coaching of the Civil Works Procurement Expert on Bank procurement and the carrying
      out of post-review work, as defined below.
  3. A set of Sector Interim National Standard Bidding Document for the procurement of
       works under NCB would be agreed at Negotiations and referenced in the Minutes of
      Negotiations.
  4. A set of Sector NationalStandardBiddingDocument for the procurement of works under
       NCB would be agreedbefore loan effectiveness.
   5. A Project Operational Manual and a Manual of Functions for the Operational
       Department, both acceptableto the Bank,would be adoptedbefore loan effectiveness.
   6. A procurement information system acceptable to the Bank would be implemented before
       June 30,2005.
   7. Procurement actions carried out by UTs would be supervised ex-ante by the
       corresponding UCR and by the Civil Works Procurement Expert. With no-limitation to
       the ex-post review work to be carried out by the Bank, the Procurement Advisor would
       ex - post review at least one (1) out of ten (10) contracts signed, including the ex-ante
       review reports produced by the UCRs and by the Civil Works Procurement Expert. Ex-
       Post supervision of CDD Procurement would be carried out by the UCRs in a manner to
       be defined inthe Operational Manual.
   8. The Special Procurement Conditions listed in Section E would be included in the Loan
       Agreement.




                                               66

Considering, on the one hand, the expectedbalance of the above-mentioned risks and corrective
actions and, on the other hand,the fact that the CPAR for Chile indicates that the Country Riski s
LOW, the overall project riskfor procurement is AVERAGE.

Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a DraftProcurement Plan for project implementation that
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team on November 18,2004, andi s available at SUBDERE, Zenteno
234, Santiagode Chile, Repiiblica de Chile. It will also be available inthe Project's database and
in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Procurement Supervisionby theBank

Prior review thresholds are as follows: $2 million for works, $300,000 for goods, $200,000 for
consultant firms and $lOO,OOO for individualconsultants. In addition to that, the first three (3)
contracts procured under each method, each type of National SBD (either interim or final) and
for each disbursement category, would be subject to prior review regardless of amount. Direct
Contracting andSingle Source Selection, if any, would be subject to prior review as well.

Post review supervision should be conducted once a year and one (1) out of ten (10) contracts
signed should be reviewed and the quality of the no-objections issued by the UCRs and by the
Civil Works Procurement Expert for those contracts would be assessed. Additionally, the ex -
post review reports produced by the Procurement External Advisor would be reviewed and its
results considered during ex - post supervision missions. As a result of the findings of its ex -
post procurement reviews, after one (1) year of Loan Effectiveness, the Bank may agree on
thresholdsbelow which the UCRs andthe CivilWorks Procurement Expert of SUBDEREwould
be no longer obliged to prior review procurement decisions made by civil works implementing
agencies which procurement performance were found satisfactory. For these purposes, the
Project Operational Manual would describe mechanisms for monitoring the procurement
performanceof the civil works implementing agencies.

E.SpecialProcurement Conditions

The following Special Procurement Conditions are proposed to favor the dissemination of good
procurement practices:

1) All bid-related documents should be submitted together with the bid andbidders should not
    berequiredto submit any bidrelated documents inadvanceof the deadline for submission of
    bids.
2) All bids received on or before the deadline for bid submission should be admitted for
    evaluation at the bidopeningceremony.
3) The evaluation process should be confidential; after the public bid opening, information
    relating to the bids, their examination and recommendations concerning awards shall not be



                                                 67

   disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the
   publication of contract award, except for the results of the post-qualification process, which
   would precedethe opening of the secondbidenvelope.
4) Unit price contracts for works construction should be priced on the basis of unit prices
   quotedby bidders after correction of computation errors; and maintainingthe total bidprice
   andchangingunit prices in accordanceto official cost estimates ("compensatory pricing") is
   not acceptable,
5) Foreign contractors shall be allowed to bid and such contractors will not be required to (a)
   register as a condition for biding or (b) have a local representative to bid. However, such
   foreign contractors shall register before contract signature, as mandated by the applicable
   locallaws andregulations.
6) Contracts should be awardedon the basis of proposals received from a short-list of qualified
   consultants; no open biddingshould becarried out.




                                               68

1. Attachment 1

2. Detailsof the ProcurementArrangement involving international competition.

1. GoodsandWorks andnonconsultingservices.

      (a) List of contractPackages that will be procuredfollowing ICB andDirect Contracting:

   1         2       1     3           4          5         6            7    i     8         9
                     1
   Ref
   .     Contract      Estimate Procureme P-Q '        Domestic      Review     Expected    Commen  1
        (Descriptio       d           nt               Preferen     by Bank       Bid-        ts
   No.       n)          cost       Method                 ce        (Prior /   Opening
                                                        (yesho)       Post)       Date


      Note: ICB andDirect Contractingare not foreseen.

2. Consulting Services.

      (a) List of ConsultingAssignmentswith short-list of internationalfirms.

          1              2            3            4            5          6          7

    Ref. No.       Description   Estimate Selection        Review     Expected    Comments
                   of            d             Method       by Bank Proposals
                   Assignment    Cost                       (Prior /  Submissio
                                                            Post)     n
                                                                      Date       I



      Note: assignmentswith short-listsof internationalfirms are not foreseen.




                                              69

                            Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                           CHILE: Chile RuralInfrastructureServices

Introduction

The Project investments include a wide spectrum of interventions for the four sectors of rural
infrastructure (water and sanitation, roads, electricity, and telecommunications).            These
investments will be identified in a participatory manner during the preparation of the territorial
development plans (PMDTs) and the related infrastructure investments. As such, the first
mechanism for the selection and screening of potential investments takes place at the time of
definition of the territories and, subsequently, the contents of the PMDTs.

The identification of the participating territories is undertakenby the Regional Governments and
validated by the Regional Councils and by SUBDERE. The territories must comply with the
following minimum eligibility criteria:       (a) high percentage of rural population; (b) high
incidence of ruralpoverty, (c) ruralinfrastructure service gaps, (d) a territorialunit that buildson
existing social and economic relationships, and (e) productive potential to ensure long-term
sustainability and viability of the territory. The territories should not encompass more than 25%
of the region population, andthe percent of population categorized as ruralshould be higher than
20%, and their population should be at least 20% poor. The initial set of territories present the
characteristics shown in the table below. Two key conditions for the selection of investment
proposals within the PMDTs are that they mustbe connectedto strategic productive activities in
the territory and that they comply with the overall social and environmental requirements of the
Project and its criteria and guidelines (for both, the PMDTs as a whole and the specific sectoral
guidelines). Inthis manner, the initialselection of subprojectsis assuredto respondto an overall
economic justification within the constraints imposed by the adequate attention to natural and
social habitats.

The scope of a PMDT will include, at least, the following elements: (a) a strategic and integrated
vision for the social and economic development of the territory; (b) an ensemble of institutional
principles and actions leading to an enhanced articulation of public entities and these with social
organizations and private entrepreneurs; and (c) a preliminary list of investment initiatives
supporting the strategic development vision. The PMDTs will be formulated in a participatory
fashion and will be approved by the CORE upon presentation of the proposal by the Regional
Zntendente.    The list of initiatives will be explicitly linked to the strategic objectives and
institutional principles of the PMDT, as will be the possible connections among initiatives. It
will be complemented with other public initiatives that, even if not eligible for financing as part
of the project, might be also relevant to achieve the strategic objectives for the development of
the selectedterritory, all with due attention to social andenvironmental considerations.

The identified rural infrastructure investments within a PMDT (the PlRDT) are required to be
evaluated from a economic (social) and financial (private) perspectives through the National
Investment System (SNI)          established by the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
(MIDEPLAN), an entity with a long tradition of analysis and evaluation of projects. The
MDEPLAN methodological process (see Box) aims at evaluating the private and economic


                                                  70

(social, in the terminology of MIDEPLAN) rates of return of every separate project with the
purpose of assessing the worthiness of those projects that may not be financially sustainable.
This applies to projects that requirepublic funds-either entirely or partially.



                                          Ki?vclla"'sticsof initialsetofterritories



 %on                                                      coqud                       k l e               BoBo          kawania
 )opulation                                       3,237     107,018    56,970             57,708             157,235          89,m
 'op.asYoof regionalpopulation                       1%        22%        10%                  6%                 8%              10%
 )ercentlufal*                                     law0        3370      42%                 32%                  =YO             Z / O




 'ercent indigenous                                  ria        da         da                  ria                11%             12%
 -poor*                                             23%        24%       36%                 3%                   42%             21Yo
 )ercenteXtR?l??&ypOOr"                             12%         7%        10%                 1PI0                13%              6%


 )ercentof regionalgeographicsurface                10%         13%       15%                 1P/O                15%              10%
 herageof infrastnrdureservices
   Water*                                           89%         47%       50%                 70%                 18%              21%
   Sanitation-                                       da          da        da                  da                  8%              44%
   Electrification*                                 74%         95%       91%                 94%                 96%              78%
   Accesstotdecomrwications                          da          da        da                 47%                  da              34%
   percentearthroads                                 da          da        da                  da                 83%              31yo
                                                                               T0UriS.Q

 cey produdive"apuestas"                       Fishing,litesiockandagriculture, agricukure,fishing, Cheese,potatcs, Fruits,
                                                        seafoodfarms            atticrafts          fishing,tourism  agrcindustrial
 fa:ndadde
  M      d pqxlatia,livingincaTmudtieSd lessthanZ000pecple
 * sclsce:ci4sENmoo,dherfiguresfrallma2        census
 * p e r C g B o f ~
 - ~ ~ t o ~ s y s t e m o r s e p t i c t a r d c




                                                                    71

EconomicandFinancial Evaluation

The evaluation methodology, information requirements, and the inputs for its application are
available through the Internet (www.mideplan.cl/sitio/Sitio/inversion/htm/sni.htm).            This
methodology varies depending on the type of subproject, but it normally includes the following
steps: (a) diagnosis of the current situation inthe area of intervention; (b) analysis andestimation
of current and future demand and supply; (c) definition and analysis of alternatives; (d)
identification of benefits (private andsocial, with conversion factor defined by the MIDEPLAN);
(e) identification of costs (also private and social, with conversion rates defined by the
MIDEPLAN); (f)calculation of the social (economic) NPV (and private, if pertinent) and other
economic indicators; and (g) performance of sensitivity analysis on the basis of variations to
benefits, costs or both.The information required by this methodology also includes the possible
environmental impacts andthe related mitigationimpacts.

This overall methodology, however, is not to be applied equally across the board to all types of
projects but i s simplified and/or adjusteddepending on the type of subproject, its characteristics
and its scope within a given PMDT. Agreement has been reached with the MIDEPLAN on the
following evaluation methodologies:


                                                 72

 (a) Cost-effectiveness will be applied to those subprojects whose benefits, given their
characteristics, are difficult to quantify though they might be evident in qualitative terms. This
methodology will apply also to those initiatives that generate "services" but are not oriented to
the markets. Inthese cases, the project will seek to obtain the maximumbenefits with the least
cost.

For instance, a simplified procedure for the preparation of subprojects involving on-site water
supply improvements and on-site sanitation solutions was developed with MIDEPLAN and
DOH. This procedure aims to: (i) the minimumrequirements for the implementation of
                                      fulfill
sustainable services, and (ii)    implement small projects in a more efficient and time-saving
process.

 (b) Economic cost-benefit analysis will be applied to those instances when the identification
and quantification of investment costs and expected benefits can be reasonably undertaken.
Subprojects that include the recovery of costs through tariffs will be subject to a financial
analysis.

Thresholds. For those subprojects subject to the cost-effectivenesscriteria, the MIDEPLANand
the sectoral entities have developed an initial set of investment ceiling thresholds.           These
thresholds will be reviewed every six months of project implementation to assess their
appropriateness for the purpose of simplifying the analysis of those projects without ready
quantifiable benefits, with an aimat ensuring that the inclusionof those subprojects for approval
under the criteria does not affect is technical and social (economic) worthiness. The partition of
projects to reduce their costs will not be permitted. Projects that include recovery through tariffs
will also be submittedto afinancial analysis.

The MIDEPLANjointly with the corresponding technical entities has proposed the thresholds
per beneficiary, connection, or other unit for those subprojects to be evaluated under the cost-
effectiveness approach. Those subprojects that have costs per beneficiary, connection, or other
unit below those threshold values will be subject to that evaluation approach and, if they are
higher, a cost-benefit analysis will be carried out, with the calculation of the indicators for NPV
andinternalrate ofreturn.

The table below shows the details of the proposal of the threshold values on the basis of the
characteristicsanddata for the initiallist of subprojects anddiscussions with the sectoral entities.



  Water               Below $1600per connectionfor interconnectedsystems or all individual
                      systems
  Sanitation          "Casetas sanitarias" e US$2,W
  Roads               Periodic maintenanceor rehabilitation works underUS$30,000/km and
                      US$l50/beneficiary
  Electrification     Investmentcosts under US$2,000 per beneficiary for distributed off-grid systems


For all the subprojects the appraisal will take into account and make explicit the possible
interrelations among them within a territory, in such a manner as to include the possible



                                                  73

complementary benefits. Through this procedure, the analysis will show the basic characteristics
of those interrelations and verify if those initiatives are complementary, mutually exclusive, or
conditioned on each other, andthe temporal sequencingandpossible pooling of risks involvedin
their concurrent implementation, inthe context of eachPMDT.

In the case of initiatives that do not obtain a positive recommendation from MIDEPLAN, a
revised evaluation will be undertaken between MIDEPLAN and the corresponding technical
entities, to review: (a) if there are combinedbenefits not quantified or erroneously quantified; (b)
if the formulation of the project does not respond to the minimum information requirements
required by the National Investment System for the specific type of subproject. If upon the
completion of this review, the subproject continues to be non-recommended by the MIDEPLAN,
an analysis of the consequences of not proceeding with this subproject in the context of the
PMDT will be evaluatedandthe possibilities of other alternatives to satisfied the same objectives
of the subproject will be considered. This may imply the incorporation of other initiatives to
further compfement the achievementof the strategic objectives of aPMDT.

Details on the processof evaluation based on cost-benefit analysis

The social prices are based on methods developed in 1987 by the Catholic University of Chile
and then updated by the MIDEPLAN when required by changes in the country economic
conditions. For instance, for labor costs the latest update took place in 2002 (see table below),
for the social discount rate (currently at 10%) in 1998, while for the foreign exchange premium
(currently with a value of 1.01) the number i s updated annually. This effort of updating the
conversion factors means that the shadow prices reflect adequately the possible distortions or
overabundanceinthe input markets, andthe social interest rate of discounting benefits andcosts.

                                  Adjustment factorsfor labor costs



                      Skilled                    0.98                   1
                      Semi-skilled               0,68                 0,94
                      Unskilled                  0,62                 0,89



For those components that require foreign inputs, the foreign exchange premium has been
establishedby the MIDEPLAN at 1%, reflecting an economy that i s largely void of exchange
restrictions and taxes. This means that the cost of foreign inputs must be adjusted by a factor of
1.01. Finally, the social discount ratefor infrastructure project was set at 10%startingin2004.

Inthe road sector, the projects subject to costhenefit analysis are evaluated with the use of the
Highway Development and Management (HDM)Program. Chile has been an active participant
inthe development andimplementation of this programming tool and its use has been standard
for several years in the Chilean road sector. The values for the variables used in the HDM are
available inthe project files. The table below summarizes the values for key variables.




                                                  74

                                          Keyvalues of HDMvariables
                                    (Social pricesas of December 31, 2004)
                                                                                Articulated
Vehicletype                                      Auto      Pick-up   Lighttruck   truck      Buses
Priceof new vehicle (CLP thousand)                8,118       8,887      10,732      25,063   71,394
Maintenancecost (CLP/hour)                        2,036       2,036       2,036       2,036    2,036
Traveltime cost (CLP/hour)                        7,630       9,007       3,108       3,108   29,234
         basedon value of time per pass-hour of:     750
Fuel(CLPAiter)                                     187.0      186.4       184.0       182.7    182.7
Lubricants(CLP/liter)                             2,004       2,004       1,005       1,005    1,005
Tires (CLP/unit)                                  19,599     43,458      96,890     126,593  126,593


The application of the HDMprogram to the projects identified from the initial PMDTs, yielded
highpositive rates of return, as it is frequent with rehabilitation and maintenanceprojects when
traffics are at mediumlevels (such as 200-500 vehicles per day).

In the water and sanitation sector, the MIDEPLANmethodology is used for subprojects in
concentrated and semi-concentrated communities. For smaller subprojects and in those in
dispersedcommunities, threshold criteria will be introduced as an initial criteria for approval. In
all cases, subproject formulation also confirmed that consumer demand was adequately assessed
as well as the willingness andcapacity to pay the requiredtariff.

In the electrification sector, the Mideplan methodology will be used as the basic tool for
economic appraisal and ranking of proposed subprojects (Evaluacidn de Proyectos de
Electrificacidn Rural, Mideplan-CNE, 2002, andits subsequent amendments).

This i s a proven methodology that has been gradually improved through project feedback. It
compares the situation with and without the project, inorder to quantify the project's private and
social benefits related to increaseddemandof electricity and/or substitution of energy sources in
the residential, commercial, productive and public sectors. Private benefits are equal to project-
related revenuesfor the project's proponent under the electricity tariff regime inthe project area,
or a specific regime agreed upon with the municipality in the case of decentralized systems.
Social benefits are those accruing to consumers. Benefits are then compared to the project's
private and social costs, to establish the private and social NPVs (VANprivado and VAN socia2)
of the discounted cash flow of costs and benefits. The project's private costs include the
investment, O&M and administrative costs for the project's private proponent. Social costs are
obtained from private costs after accounting for duty/taxes and shadow prices of labor and
investment. Inboth cases a sensitivity analysis i s conducted to confirm the robustness of results.
Comparison of alternatives i s basedon maximizing the social NPV to supply a given demand. To
be judged eligible by the regional planning office (SERPLAC), projects must have a positive
social NPV. Eligible projects are then prioritized by the Regional Councils, often on the basis of
the maximization of the ratio of social NPV to investment cost.

Duringproject appraisal some complementsto the above methodology were discussedwith CNE
andMIDEPLAN, includingthe following:




                                                        75

a. Apply the consumer surplus approachinthe estimation af social benefits for residential users
    that substitute low-quality energy sources such as kerosene lamps, candles, batteries, etc.

b. Assess sector demandtakinginto accountthe effect of packaging subprojectsimplementedin
    a given territory (e.g. productive uses of electricity will be higher if road access is improved
    and residential demand of electricity will be higher if water and telecom services are
    provided at the same time)

C.  Allow project proponents to define project specifications provided they comply with
    minimumstandardsandservicequalityrequirements.

d. In the case of distributed systems that often have a higher cost per connection than the
    current average cost of grid connection, apply a least cost approach up to qualify projects up
    to a maximum investment cost per connection (e.g. US$2,500), which i s commensurate with
    the lower part of the rangeof costs of renewableenergy systems).

Inthe Informationand Communications Technology Sector, the SUBTEL has undertaken a
country wide assessment of rural localities where the implementation of telecommunications
centers would benefit from their connection to the broadbandbackbone that runs from the North
to the Southof the country. The possible projects will have to be identified by the participating
communities in a territory and become part of the PMDTs (Territorial Development Framework
Plans). The PMDT, with the support of the SUBTEL as pertinent, will show the number of
beneficiaries of the telecommunication services-on an annual basis, for a period of 10 years-
and the expected benefits. These expected benefits would be measured by multiplying the
number of beneficiaries by their willingness-to-pay (the latter to be measured by the estimated
(subsidized) tariff the users will pay for the service). The net benefits would be calculated
substractingfrom the annualbenefits the initialinvestments costs andthose for the operation and
maintenance of the telecommunication services, taking into account the conversion factors
describedinthe previous section.



Resultsof economic analysisof samplefrom initialset of subprojects

An analysis of the projects to be implemented at the start of project implementation yields the
cost-effectiveness or economic indicators shown in following table. The information provided
was confirmed with MIDEPLAN and covers about 50% of the costs of the initial set of
subprojects identifiedinthe five eligible regions or about two thirds of those that received the RS
recommendation from MIDEPLAN.




                                                 76

                                                     CaCFa'b      3M)   729     24   1200h    dap
                                                     Cocpinbo     135   200     13   120%     dap
                                                     coquib       332   77      33   11.6%    dap
                                                      Maule       516    da   1,415  64.0%    dap
                                                      Maule        26   545     65     da      -25

                                                      W   O     2429     148    30*    da     dap
                                                     Amucania     216    54     30*    nla    dap
                                                     Araucania    381   95"     26'    da     dap
                                                     Araucarn'a  1,127  134"    P*     da     dap
                                                     Araucaria     48    390    a0   23.9%     -%
                                                     AaucaEh       45    547    82    22.6%    -51
                                                     L=Lasos      179    235    94    23.G%   Map
                                                     blasos       347    340   !32    33.6%   dap
                                                     hlasos        46     73    112   15.0%   dap




Financial Evaluation

For the financial analysis, the methodology requires the assessment of tariff structure and levels
and the calculation of the income generated by the revenue-raising projects (therefore, this
analysis will not be performed on road projects), and then a comparison of this income with the
private costs of construction, operation and maintenance of the project (including taxes and
utilities). This provides the financial cash from which the NPV and the corresponding rate of
returncanbe calculated. Inthis calculation, the private discount rate for the company i s applied.

For the electricity sector, the basis of investment subsidy allocation i s precisely to turn
financially viable (private NPV equal to zero) those projects that have a positive social NPV. In
that sense, subprojects that are approved are financially viable by definition. In any case, it i s
worth noting that the subproject cost and demand risks are fully taken by the subproject
proponent, who is bound through a concession contract, to supply service at a given quality and
price to all customers that are part of the subproject. This applies to both interconnected and
decentralizedelectricity systems.

Decentralized systems face the challenge of either high investment costs (in the case of
renewable energy systems such as mini-hydropower, wind-power, or hybrid renewable/diesel
systems, which however have O&M costs comparable to average tariff for grid-connected
electricity customers, or about US$O.lZ/kWh for residential customers in rural areas), or high
O&M costs (in the case of diesel plants for which O&M costs are in the range of US$0.30-
0.35kWh) combined with usually low customer affordability for electricity services that, in
addition, are often of lower quality than gridelectricity.




                                                77

For the ICT sector, the financial analysis of the telecommunication services (e.g., to enhance
connectivity) in a particular territory will provide the financial rate of return of a cash flow that
includes the operating and management costs, and the expected revenues (estimated demand
times tariff), and a provisionfor amortization of the (subsidized) investment cost as a manner to
ensurethat the equipment is replacedwhen itbecomesobsolete.

Fiscal Impact and Sustainability

The total project costs amount to US$90 million, of which US$40 million will be counterpart
funds, over a period of four years, that is an average of about US$22.5 million per year (and
US$lO million of counterpart financing). This amount contrasts with the US$200 million that
the Government of Chile allocates annually to rural infrastructure services in the same four
infrastructure sectors. The project then requires less than 12% of the combined resources
currently being allocated to rural infrastructure, a figure that provides comfort that counterpart
fundingwill beavailable with ahighlevelof certainty.

The Government of Chile has been recognized for its fiscal prudence and ability to achieve
budgetary and debt targets. The project costs andthe loanhave been factored inthe Government
accounts during the four years of implementation of the project and, hence, their fiscal impact
has been neutralized as the resourceshave substituted rather than added to the budget resources.
During CY2004, about US$5 million have been allocated to activities similar to those of the
project. This amount has been increasedto more than US$30 million in the budget for CY2005
prepared by the Ministry of Finance (and to currently being discussed at the Congress). This
figure compares favorably with the estimated annual needs for the (calendar) years of project
implementation: US$7.3, US$18.3, US35.2, and US$29.2 million for calendar years 2005 to
2008, respectively.

The size of the project is relatively small compared to overall budget allocations for
infrastructure investments and for those assigned to the SUBDERE's FNDR (about US$325
million allocated in the 2005 draft budget). The project funds are not additional to the budget;
therefore, assurances will be sought at appraisal and negotiations for budgeting the required
FNDR"provision" allocations to ensurethe implementation scheduleof the project.

Nonetheless, the project investments will require future allocations to cover the recurrent costs
involved in the O&M of those investments. These recurrent costs applied to the road sector, as
for the other sectors the costs of O&M are beingcovered by the tariffs chargedto the consumers.
For the road sector, an estimate of the costs of maintainingthe ruralroads amounted to an annual
costs of between US$1,200/km and US$1,700/km (depending on the number of kilometers per
member of the micro-enterprise) under a system that would involve the conformation and
contracting of micro-enterprises with members living in the proximities of the roads to be
maintained. The Project will provide the funds to established enhanced mechanisms for the
 O&M of the infrastructure services, including technical assistance activities to community-based
initiatives (APR Committees or maintenancemicro-enterprises) to strengthen their efficiency and
technical capacity to manage these services. Inthe case of roads, assuranceswere received from
the Directorate of Roads of the MOPTT and of MIDPLAN's FOSIS to provide the financing for
these micro-enterprises, complementing similar type of initiativesunder FOSIS.




                                                  78

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                          CHILE: Chile RuralInfrastructure Services


Annex 10.A. Principlesfor the Application of Safeguard Policies

A key element of project implementation consists of the participation of the possible
beneficiaries in order to establish a virtuous relationship between their demands and public
interventions. This is achievedthrough the application of the social evaluation andparticipatory
methodologies developed during project preparation. In this respect, the participation of the
population inthe eligible territories will be an integral part of the PMDT-elaboration process and
subproject implementation, regardless of the socio-economic, gender or ethnic characteristics of
that population.

The territories to be identified and selected under the project will likely present diverse socio-
economic characteristics and in each case the PMDT will reflect the particular heterogeneous
profile of the territory's population, seeking the appropriate social inclusion and environmental
sustainability. Both the diagnostic, the technical design of subproject, and the estimation of
subproject impacts will count with the participation, as pertinent, of the public entities involved
with social and environmental issues (CONADI-MIDEPLAN, CONAMA, National Women
Service-or Servicio Nacional de laMujer-Council         for NationalMonuments, etc.)

The current Chilean normative and legal framework include appropriate and exhaustive
consideration of social andenvironmental issues, and will be an integral part of the actions to be
carried out under the project and the contracts to be executed for the implementation of
subprojects. The project however will not use country systems per se albeit it will use the
country's institutional framework and capabilities while meeting all Bank standards and
requirements. The key Chilean entities involvedin social and environmental matters (CONADI,
CONAMA) will provide counterpart support to ensure the application of the normative and legal
framework and the carrying out of capacity-strengthening actions at the national and regional
level, while ensuring the application of Bankproceduresandrequirements.

Annex 10.B. SocialAssessment Summary

SUBDERE commissioned the implementation of a comprehensive social assessment as part of
project preparation to generate information on socio-economic and cultural information that are
relevant to local infrastructure projects. The study also addressed Bank safeguard issues related
to indigenous people (OP 4.20), involuntary resettlement (OP 4.11) and cultural property (OPN
4.11). The extensive study results are included in the project files and the recommendations
have beenintegrated into the project design.

Safeguard issues. Since the rural areas in region IX and part of region VIII where the project
will be implemented has a good portion of indigenous population, even though the bulk of
beneficiaries are non-indigenous, the project has been designed with the provisions of World
Bank Policy related to Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), and has prepared an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP). Although it i s unlikely that the project will engage in resettlement



                                                  79

activities, provisions have still been made in case any resettlement issue may arise. The
application of Bankpolicies on Cultural Property (OPN 4.11) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP
4.12) were reviewed in order to prepare guidelines for a possible resettlement plan. The
preparation of these plans also included a review of Bank policy compared to the Chilean
legislation. It is also worth notingthat a comprehensive IPDP and RP was prepared as part of a
proposedWatershed Management Project and these documents also provided a good foundation
for the recommendationsof this project.

Methodology for the Social Impact and Participatory Assessment (SIPA). This was
conducted using beneficiary surveys and semi-structured interviews of key informants.
Secondary demographic and socio-economic information also contributed to build a detailed
characterization and changes that beneficiary communities included in the pilot areas of the
project have gone through in the last few years. The study carefully analyzed demographic and
socioeconomic conditions of indigenous and no- indigenous populations, and also took into
account gender issues. Fieldwork was carried out in the VIII and IX regions, and included 4
municipalities and 4 representative communities (with a focus on selecting indigenous areas).
Theresults of these studies were also usedto preparethe afore-mentioned IPDP.

The objective of socioeconomic impact analysis is to assess the magnitude and distribution of
bothdirect andindirect effects. Pastefforts at assessing the impact of infrastructure projects have
typically been limited due to the lack of available demographic and economic baseline and
control data. The SIPA carried out as part of project preparation is aimed at providing useful
baseline data in diagnostic areas of the target population, assess in a more systematic way
potential impacts andto identify potential risks.

Some key data on the project regions shows that they have the highest percentage of rural
population compared to other regions of the country. The regions also include the largest
percentages of indigenous population. At national level the indigenous population registers low
rates at 5%, of which 83% is Mapuche, most of whom live inthe Mand X regionsrecording 33
and 16, respectively. In terms of age structure, about the 40% of the rural population ranks
between30 and64 years old while an average of 25% belongto the age group0-14 years old and
about 20% to the age group 15-29.

Poverty. Despite Chile's improvements in infrastructure, and especially in electricity, coverage
i s still limited in the ruraldispersed andisolatedpopulations, and even more so where indigenous
communities live. These communities have historically registered higher poverty rates. From
 1992 to 2000, poverty rates in large dropped across the country moving from 38% to 21%. But,
still the 24% of rural population lives under the poverty line. In the same years urban income
increased 89% while rural income only increased 36%. The project regions register higher
poverty rates runningfrom 21% (VII, VIII Region) to 33% (X Region).

Ethnicity and Poverty. There is a correlation between indigenous peoples and poverty since
indigent or --extremely poor-- indigenous population i s about 10% while non- indigenous i s only
5.4%. According to official data, in 2000, rural indigent indigenous peoples totaled about 14.7%
while only 7.5% of non-indigenous registered as indigent and 21.4% indigenous peoples were
classified as non-indigent rural poor in contrast to 14.7% non-indigenous rural poor (see
MIDEPLAN, 2000, Etnia y Pobreza en Chile). While 10% of indigenous poor households



                                                  80

depend on subsidies only 7% of non-indigenous households do so. The SIPA fieldwork
confirmed that indigenous households have lower income and higher dependency on government
subsidies, andthat there are a large percentageof indigenous peoples living under poverty line in
the project areas. However, the four municipalities studied are not homogeneous in the
indigenous population and poverty rates. Ercilla is the most rural (64.2%) and gathers not only
the most of Mapuche population but also the indigenous rural Mapuche. In Los Alamos overall
13% of total population is Mapuche, however in rural areas, this figures increases to 38%. The
entire community of Renaico registers the lowest Mapuche population, but at rural level it
gathers a high percentage of Mapuche people 42.8. Poverty data shows that there is, indeed, a
correlation betweenethnicity andpoverty since ErcillaandLos Alamos show that almost 50% of
the population lives under poverty line (Tables 37 and39 of SPA).

Access to infrastructure services in the five project regions: Table 10.1 shows the lag in
coverage of electricity, potable water and sanitation at the national levelbetween ruralandurban
areas, and as well as the regional differences. The rural areas of project regions in some cases
show coverage figures above the national rural average and also below. This is a mainly a
reflection of a centralized and sectoral approach to planning, which does not address the
comprehensivedevelopment of ruralareas on a territorial basis.


    Table 1. Coverageof BasicServicesby UrbanandRuralAreas inProject ExecutionAreas




     Source:INE.Censo de Poblaci6ny Vivienda. 2002.


The SIPA provides a detailed analysis of the four pilot areas of the project in terms of poverty,
ethnicity and access to infrastructure. It also assessed beneficiary priorities for infrastructure
improvement andwillingness to participate inthe project and pay for services. Communities had
a highpriority for improvements of their rural roads, and a higher willingness to pay for potable
water. However, the SPA also showed that not all communities' members were willing to pay
for project benefits, beyond in-kind contributions, and so it will be critically important to
implement detailed demand assessment and participatory analysis of investment alternatives to


                                                 81

ensure that any solution proposed meets local willingness and capacity to use and sustain the
services. Communities also expressed that there is a lack of coordination across sectors and
government interventions, many of which do not correspondto community priorities.

The SPA report recommends specific actions to work with Mapuches and other indigenous
peoples, which were discussed with top officials of the CONADI, SERPLAC and MOPTT".
There also included lessons from other programs and projects executed in these regions such as
Origenes financed by IADB. Some of the recommendations include the need to recognize the
traditional forms of organization andrespectcultural expressions of the indigenouscommunities.
CONADI officials recommend working with indigenous traditional forms of organizations,
which could: (a) contribute to effectively manage investments and foster sustainability, (b)
ensure the adequate definition of territories, when applicable, (c) fully take into account cultural
andlanguagebackground of target indigenous population (andproject staff working inMapuche
communities have been trained in these aspects) and (d) set a clear system of indicators and
monitoringandevaluation system which allows for a mid-termreview to identify andcorrect bad
practices, processes, impacts and or results. Project regional staff must be trained in monitoring
andevaluation skills for this purpose.




''Ministry  of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Publicas MOP") has prepared a Participatory Manual to build
civil works inMapucheindigenouspeoplescommunities.


                                                      82

                               Annex 10.C. Indigenous PeoplesPlan


Before the initiation of a PMDT in a territory with preponderance of indigenous peoples, the
Regional Management Unit will consult with the regional CONADI-MIDEPLAN offices to
identify and take into account the existing Indigenous Peoples Development Plans in that
territory, inorder to articulate the PMDT andproject interventions with the strategies andactions
already identified inthose plans. Inthis manner, the project will strengthencurrent plansinline
with Bank policies.

Responsibility: Design and execution of the IPDP specific actions i s the responsibility of
implementing institutions such as Regional Governments' Operative Units and Technical
counterparts of institutions such as MOPTT, specifically the Directorate of Roads (DV), the
Directorate of Hydraulic Works (DOH) or the Deputy Secretariat for Telecommunications
(SUBTEL). CONADI plays a key technical role in all regions and territories where indigenous
peoplesreside. Therefore, as part of the current regional institutional framework andprocedures,
CONADI will be part of the elaboration of PMDTs and subprojects, contributing with its
knowledge and expertise in territories with preponderance of indigenous peoples, as pertinent,
strengthening the consideration of ethnic issues in all subprojects and in the evaluation and
monitoringsystems.

According to the Chilean Indigenous Law 19.243 the institutionin charge of indigenous peoples
development i s the National Corporation of Indigenous Peoples (CONADI). The CONADI i s a
decentralized autonomous entity of the MIDEPLAN, subject to the oversight of the MIDEPLAN
and the Intendente and authorities at the regional level. The Article 39 of the Law establishes
that the CONADIis the organization incharge of promoting, coordinating and executing actions
oriented to foster an integral development of indigenous peoples mostly on the economic, social
andcultural issues.Italso managesthe landandwater rightsfund.

All implementing institutions will take into consideration the diversity and existence of ethnic
groups (such as Diaguitas andCollas) inthe project's eligibleterritories.

Some conclusionsof the SocialAssessment and Indigenous PeoplesPlanare the following:

(a) All regions where the project will be executed have indigenous peoples. However, the larger
    percentage of indigenous peoples i s located in the Bio Bio and Araucania Regions. The
    Mapuchepredominateinthese regions.

(b) In those regions with presence of indigenous peoples not recognized as "originarias"
     communities, the project will consider the specific cultural characteristics through the social
     assessment methodology (that will be part of the elaboration of the PMDTs), including the
     traditional forms of land tenure, production activities, and organizational representation
     modalities.

(c) Most indigenous communities have local forms of community organization upon which they
     rely to faithfully represent community interests, opinions, investment areas, definition of
     territories anddevelopment concerns.


                                                83

(d) Most indigenous communities have a clear sense of ethnic identity and desire to maintain
    their distinctive identity, andculture.

(e) Most ruralindigenous communities are interestedin improving their basic infrastructure, and
    especially roads andpotable water.

(f) Some indigenous communities still have deficits in access to health, education and basic
    services, and exhibit illiterate rates that will require specific and appropriate communication
    strategies.

(g) Based upon the Chilean law, territories named Development Indigenous Areas (Area de
    Desarrollo Indigena) can be constituted.

(h) Definition of "territories" basedupon "productive variables" might or not coincide with the
    geographic definition and limits of ADIS. When defining project working territories or sub
    territories, these ADIS cannot be divided.

(i) Project-related indigenous communities-like        other rural communities-are     aware of their
    right to participate in governmental projects that affects them.          In the context of the
    elaboration of the PMDTs, as it will be done with any other ruralpopulations and in all the
    eligible territories irrespective of their socio-economic characteristics, indigenous peoples
    will be informedandconsultedregarding subprojectsthat affect them.

Basedupon on the above, as part of the IPDP, SUBDERE must ensure that the following actions
are executed, interritories with preponderance of ethnic groups andby the relevant entities, for
the identification of territories, the elaboration of PMDTs, and the preparation of subprojects. All
activities related to the IPDPwill be financed with counterpart funds.

 (a) The Regional governments will include the participation of CONADI in the technical
     working groups incharge of identifying anddefining territories.

 (b) Implementation Technical Units will coordinate closely with CONADI when any of the
     following actions need to be executed: (a) facilitation, as applicable depending of the
     requirements of the subprojects, of the acquisition of small parcel of lands or possible
     regularization of land titles for the implementation of infrastructure subprojects, (b)
     regularization of water rights, (d) definition of timetable and procedures for land and water
     regularization, (d) initiation and processing of land and water rights to ensure that
     indigenous peoples will benefit from subprojects,         and (e) ascertaining that indigenous
     territories that constitute a geographic unit are not divided to execute specific subprojects.

 (c) Implementing institutions must design and execute the specific actions listed at the end of
     this Annex to ensure synergies between the PMDTs in those areas with preponderance of
     indigenous peoples and existing indigenous peoples development plans in the territories,
     including specific institutional arrangements and detailed costs for each subproject to be
     developed in indigenous territories (ADIS), in indigenous territories not organized as ADIS
     and/or, ingeneral, inareas where indigenous peoples reside.




                                                   84

(d) Implementing institutions have an understanding that participatory process must follow a
    demand-based approach (see Annex 10.E). The indigenous communities will be taken into
    account in the design, and execution of subprojects includingtechnical options, cost sharing
    and willingness to work in micro enterprises and maintenance. Indigenous people as key
    beneficiaries must be taken as well into account in participatory monitoring and evaluation
    of subprojects.

(e) Implementing institutions have a full understanding that religious sites andcultural property
    mustberespected.

(f) Implementing institutions and/or consultants hired by these institutions will take into
    account the indigenous peoples characteristics-as    identified in the social assessment to be
    carried out as part of the processof elaboration of the PMDTs-in all steps of the subproject
    cycle includingdefinition of territory, subproject's design (technical options), execution, and
    evaluation, seekingtheir participation.

(8) Implementing institutions and/or consultants hired by these institutions must ensure that all
    personnelpossess the neededcommunication andcultural skills for carryingout the PMDTS
    and subprojectsona culturally appropriated methodology.

 (h) Indigenous social forms of organization and leaders ineach relevant territory will be taken
    into account inthe designandimplementation of subprojects.

In addition to the actions specified in the definition of territories, definition of their respective
plans and identificationandimplementation of subprojects the actions listedbelow will be taken
inproject implementation. The budget costs indicated after each action will be financed under
the project, and representpreliminary estimations to be defined with precision by the SUBDERE
uponthe definition of the respectiveterms of reference.

    SUBDERE will carry out a consultation process to ensure that all implementing institutions
    and coordinating agencies such as CONADI are properly informedand are aware of project
    scope, objectives and components. This activity is part of Component 3 and would be carried
    out during the first six months of project execution. Budget: US$ 15.000. Responsible:
    SUBDERE

    Inthe context of the elaboration and validation of PMDTs, the Regional Management Units,
    with guidance from the SUBDERE, will develop and implement dissemination campaigns, as
    part of the pertinent participatory processes, to seek and obtain the views of indigenous
    peoples. These campaigns will take into account illiteracy levels, ethnic and cultural issues,
    and a variety of communication means. This activity is part of Component 3 and would be
    developed during the first six months of project execution. Budget: US$ 25.000.
    Responsible: SUBDERE.

    Training workshops and seminars to strengthen the skills and capacities of project regional
    managers to take into account social, cultural and ethnic issues in the elaboration of
    Territorial Development Framework Plans (PMDTs). This activity is part of Component 3




                                                85

  and would take place during the first two months of execution ineach of the regions where
  the Project would be executed. Budget: US$35.000. Responsible: SUBDERE.

 For those territories with presence of indigenous peoples, complementing the social
  assessment that i s part of the process of elaboration of PMDTs, preparation of a specific file
  of a representativesample of beneficiaries' households specifying ethnic group andgender of
  household head. This file must include basic information such as number of members, age
  and gender, economic activity, identification of subproject(s), implementing institution(s),
  predisposition to cooperate inkind, financially or as labor force, predisposition to participate
  in a micro enterprise or committee in charge of maintenance of civil works built by
  subprojects. This activity i s part of Component 3 andwould be developed as the PMDTs are
  elaborated. Budget: US$35.000. Responsible: Regional Management Units.

0 Training workshops and seminars to strengthen the understanding of implementing
  institutions about the participatory approach, including the social, cultural and ethnic issues
  needed to design and execute culturally appropriate subprojects. This activity is part of the
  Component 3 and would be carried out during the two years of project execution. Budget:
  US$40.000. Responsible: SUBDERE (incoordination with implementation technical units).

0 Set in place a Monitoring and Evaluation system that will process beneficiaries' information
  collected inthe files. The objective i s to measurethe social impact of subprojects at mid-term
  and project conclusion. Budget: US$ 50.000. Responsible: Regional Management Units
  (under the supervision of SUBDERE).

  Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation system aimed at evaluating process, impacts and
  results of : (a) explanation of procedures, (b) accomplishments of procedures and rules, (c)
  quality of subprojects, (d) quality of training, (e) participation process of institutional and
  population actors. This activity is part of Component 3 and would be executed all over the
  four years of Project execution period. Budget: US$ 50.000. Responsible: Units of Regional
  Implementations (underthe supervision of SUBDERE).




                                                86

                         Annex 10.D. ResettlementPolicy Framework


Resettlement Policy (RP) Framework. Every reasonable effort is to be made to avoid or
minimize the need for landacquisition, andto minimize all resettlement-related adverseimpacts.
When voluntary donations of land or assignment of rights take place the procedures of this
Annex will not apply. When resettlement and/or displacement are unavoidable a resettlement
plan must be approved by the World Bank. The implementation of the RP will meet the
requirements of the Chilean Indigenous Peoples Law 19.253 , the Expropriation Decree Law
2186, Dictate 2755 for resettlement, and the Environment Law 19.300. Local needs, investment
and technical preferences must be identified through direct consultation and participatory
approach. It must also meet World Bank safeguards such OPBP 4.12 and Environmental
Assessment OPBP/GP 4.0 1andCulturalProperty OPN 11.03 revised as OP 4.10.

All resettlementsplanshave to be presentedto the World Bankfor its review and approval prior
to the execution of subprojects. All resettlements plans must include: (a) interinstitutional
agreements as neededfor expropriation, compensation, rights-of-way, (b) detailed activities and
schedule, and (c) detailed costs andfinancing source.

The procedures, actions and guidelines contained in this Annex will be applied in all cases when
resettlement impacts affecting indigenous peoples are generated by project interventions. The
objective of the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is to ensure that all persons subjected to
adverse impacts ("displaced persons" as defined below) are compensated-if           displaced-at
replacementcost for lost assets and otherwise provided with any rehabilitation measures or other
forms of assistancenecessary to provide them with sufficient opportunity to improve, or at least
restore, their incomes andlivingstandards.

Responsibility: The execution of Resettlement Plans prepared as per the RPF i s the
responsibility of Regional Governments' Operative Units and Implementation Technical Units
such as those of the M O R T or the National Energy Commission under the Ministry of
Economy. As CONADIplays a key technical role in all regions andterritories where indigenous
peoples reside, as part of the current regional institutional framework and procedures, the
CONADIwill support the steps andprocedures involvedinthe application of the RPF.

Definition of Terms:

0   Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF'). The RPF i s a framework with budget setting out
    resettlement strategy, objectives, entitlement, actions, responsibilities, monitoring, and
    evaluation.

0   Project Affected Person (PAP) indicates any juridical person being as it may an individual,
    a household, a firm or a private or public who, on account of the execution of the Project, or
    any of its components or sub-projects or parts thereof would have there: Right, tide or
    interest in any house, land (including residential, agricultural and grazing land) or any other
    fixed or moveable asset acquired or possessed, in full or inpart, permanently or temporarily;
    or Business, occupation, work, place of residence or habitat adversely affected; or Standard
    of living adversely affected.



                                                87

  Severely Affected Personfor this Project is defined as a personwho will (a) lose 20 percent
  or more of total agriculture/aquaculture land holding, and/or (b) relocate and/or loses more
  than50percentof their mainresidential and/or commercialstructure, and/or (c) loseUS$200
  or more of total income sourcesdue to the Project.

  Land Acquisition means the process whereby a person is compelled by a public agency to
  alienate all or part of the land shehe owns or possesses, to the ownership and possessionof
  that agency, for public purposeinreturn for fair compensation.

  Replacement Cost means the cost of replacing lost assets and incomes, including cost of
  transactions. If land, it means the cost of buying a replacement land near the lost land with
  equal productive potential and it or better legal status, including transaction costs. If
  structures, the replacement cost is the current fair market price of building materials and
  required labor cost without depreciation or deductions for salvagedbuildingmaterial or other
  transaction cost. Market prices will be usedfor crops, trees andother commodities.

  Resettlement Plan,full or abbreviated, as explained later inpages 84 and 85.

  Resettlement Effects mean all negative situations directly caused by the subprojects,
  including loss of land, property, income generation opportunity, andcultural assets.

  Relocation means the physical relocation of a PAP from herhis pre-Project place of
   residence.

   Rehabilitation means the process to restore income earning capacity, production levels and
   living standardsinalonger term.

   Compensation means payment incash or in kind to replace losses of land, housing, income
   andother assetscausedby aproject.

Framework Principles:

   Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be minimized as much
   as possible by identifying possible alternative subprojects' designs, and appropriate social,
   economic, operational andengineering solutions.

   The populations affected by the Project are defined as those who may stand to lose, as a
   consequence of the implementation of subprojects, all or part of physical and non physical
   assets, including homes, homesteads, productive lands, commercial properties, tenancy,
   income earningopportunities, social andcultural activities andrelationships, and other losses
   that may be identifiedduring the processof resettledplanning.

   All PAPSwho will be identified in the project impacted areas as of the date of the updated
   census and inventory of losses, will be entitled to be compensated for their lost assets,
   incomes and businesses at full replacement cost and provided with rehabilitation measures
   sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintaintheir pre- subproject living standards,
   income earningcapacity andproduction levels.



                                                88

Resettlement would be minimized in indigenous people's territories (ADIS). If necessary
action i s needed to be taken, for instance, of longitudinal trenches of land or for the
installation of minor equipment or works, and rights of way, etc it would precede only if
there i s a consensual signedagreementwith the community inquestion.

Implementing institutions have a fully understanding that religious sites andcultural property
mustbe respected.

All affected populations will be equally eligible for compensation and rehabilitation
assistance, irrespective of tenure status, social or economic standing, and any such factors
that may discriminate against achieving the objectives outlined above.

The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i)  cash compensation for houses and other
structures at replacement cost of materials and labor without deduction for depreciation or
salvageable materials; (ii)  replace agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity
acceptableto the PAP; full title to replacement residential and commercial landof equal size
acceptable to the PAP; or, at the informed decision of the PAP, cash for replacement land at
replacement cost at current market value; (iv) cash compensation for crops and trees at
current market value; and (v) relocation allowances andrehabilitation assistance.

There will be no deduction in payments for salvage value, depreciation, taxes, stamp duty,
fees, or any other payments

Sufficient time will be allowed for replacement structures to be built before construction
begins

Temporarily affected land and communal infrastructure will be restored to pre-project
conditions.

Existing cultural, archeological sites and religious practices shall be respected and, to the
maximum extent practical, preserved.

Adequatebudgetary support will be fully committed andbe made available to cover the costs
of land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation within the agreed implementation
period.

Special measures shall be incorporated in the RAP and complementary mitigation and
enhancement activities to protect socially and economically vulnerable groups such as,
women-headed families, children and elderly people without support structures and people
living inextreme poverty.

Executing institution of specific subproject has the responsibility to ensure that grievance
procedures shall be established and in place and PAPs informed of them before any
resettlementactivities begin.

Details of the RAP shall be distributed to the PAPs and placed in territories' offices for the
reference of affected people as well any interested groups.



                                             89

   Appropriate reporting, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms will be identified and set in
   place as part of the resettlement management system and an independent monitor hired
   before commencementof any resettlement activities.

Each implementing institution will carry out, or cause to be carried out, a census survey to
identify and enumerate the persons to be displaced by a subproject, if that is the case, and a
socioeconomic survey to determine the range and scope of adverse impacts in the affected area
as a consequence of that displacement.The census survey must cover 100%of the persons to be
displaced; the socioeconomic survey may be undertaken on a samplebasis. The surveys that may
be undertaken separately or simultaneously would determine whether a full RP or an
"abbreviated" Rpi s necessary.When the number of persons affected exceeds 200 a full RPis
necessary. Otherwise an abbreviated RP may be prepared where impacts on the entire affected
population are minor or fewer than 200 people, or that affected people are not physically
displacedandlor less than 10%of their productive assets are lost.

FullResettlementPlan(FRP). A FRPmustbepreparedbasedon accuratebaselinecensus and
socioeconomic survey information, and must establishes appropriate mitigation measures (e.g.-
compensation for assets, transitional assistance, economic rehabilitation assistance) for all
categories of adverse impacts. A Full andor abbreviated RP must be reviewed and accepted by
the Bankprior approval of subprojects.

FRP must address, at least, the following issues: (a) description of the activity causing land
acquisition; (b) range and scope of potential adverse impacts; (c) socioeconomic survey and
baseline census survey information; (d) specific compensation rates (or alternative measures) for
allcategoriesof affected assets; (e) other measures, if any, necessaryto provideopportunities for
economic rehabilitation of displaced persons; (f) eligibility criteria for compensation and all
other forms of assistance; (g) relocation arrangements, if necessary, including transitional
support; (h) selection and preparation of sites, if necessary; (i) restoration or replacement of
community infrastructure and services; (j)organizational arrangements for implementation; (k)
consultation and disclosure arrangements; (1) resettlement implementation schedule; (m) costs
andbudget; (n)monitoring arrangements; and(0)grievance procedures.

An abbreviated RP also must be based on policy objectives, planning and implementation
arrangements established in this RPF. An abbreviated RP must include, at least, the following
issues:

a. A census survey of displacedpersons andvaluation of assets;

b. Description of compensation andother resettlement assistanceto be provided;

c. Eligibility criteria;

d. Consultationanddisclosure arrangements;

e. Organizational arrangements for implementation

f. Timetable andbudget;



                                               90

g. Monitoring arrangements;

h. Grievanceprocedures; and

i.Arrangementsformonitoringandimplementation.

Eligibility Criteria: InGeneralterms, amongeligiblepeople are:

    Personswith documentedproperty rights;

    Persons with rights recognized in law, but not formally documented (e.g. no
    registered deed). This applies, for example, to heirs of a piece of land which
    has not beenprobated.

    Persons    with no      legally   recognized    rights, but who      are    the   bona      fide
    occupants of a piece of landor a home such as for example, the squatters. The recognition of
    squatter's rights would depend more on the Chilean Law than on World Bank policy
    framework

    Resettlement will be avoided in indigenous peoples' territories. If it i s unavoidable it i s an
    indispensable requirement that the indigenous community authority, selected by the
    indigenous community inquestion, signs an agreementwith the community allowing such an
    action. Such signed agreement must be submitted to the respective implementation technical
    unit, which will in turn submit the agreement to the SUBDERE along with the resettlement
    plan(including the above-mentionedrequirements for any resettlementplan).

    Expropriationof narrow longitudinaltrenches of landto widen ruralroads, to place electrical
    poles or water tanks will be agreed between indigenous peoples and local implementing
    technical units with the purpose of taking account the indigenous peoples needs and cultural
    traditions. Ifthis expropriation is unavoidable, the indigenous community authority must sign
    an agreement with the relevant Implementation Technical Unit allowing such action. Such
    signed agreement must be submitted to SUBDERE prior to the beginning of the subproject
    interventions.

More specifically, the following people are also eligible:

1.- Agricultural Land Lost. Displaced persons losing agricultural land will be entitled to the
following types of compensation andrehabilitation measures:

a) Typically, collectively-owned cultivated land remaining after acquisition will be reallocated
    among all members of the community. This would apply more to indigenous peoples land
    named as ADIS, according to Chilean Indigenous Peoples Law. Under these circumstances,
    all displaced persons are eligible for a share of reallocated land, and to benefit from
    collective investment of landcompensation.

b) Insituations where landreallocationis not possible, the displacedpersons who actually are to
    lose their share of collectively owned agricultural landmust be identified. Insome instances,
    they may be provided with employment with wages at least equivalent to income lost. In


                                                 91

    other cases they may be paid a resettlement subsidy normally equivalent to at least 6 times
    the average annual production output value of the land in the previous three years. If this is
    not sufficient to restore livelihoods, the subsidy may be raised to as much as 14 times the
    average annualoutput value;

c) If land compensation and resettlement subsidies paid are still insufficient, the resettlement
    subsidiesmay be further increasedupon approval by the government;

d) Landcompensation and resettlement subsidies are paidto PAP, whose land is affected and
    will be used for (i)increasing land areas under cultivation if land i s available, (ii)
    intensification of agriculture through provision of irrigation, improved agricultural practices
    and, (iii) development of non-agriculture based income generation activities. Individual
    displaced persons will be compensated at replacement cost for the loss of standing crops,
    fruit or industrialtrees, as well as any fixed assets:

e) Displaced persons whose land is temporarily taken to facilitate construction will be
    compensatedfor their loss of income, standingcrops and for the cost of soil restoration and
    damagedinfrastructures.

2.- Auxiliary Structures Lost. Displaced persons losing house and auxiliary structures will be
entitled to the following compensation andrehabilitation measures: a) Provisionof replacement
housing of equivalent value; or b) Compensation at full replacement cost; and c) Compensation
for replacement or restoration of all facilities and services (e.g., electricity, telephone, cable
television, school enrollment fees), d) Transitional allowances as necessary to move all
belongings, or to obtain temporary housing if necessary; and e) Special measures or preferences
as necessary to enable poor or vulnerable households to obtain replacement housing that meets
minimumcommunity standards. Ifpartial acquisition would render a house or structure unsafe
or no longer functional, it should be acquiredinits entirety.

3.- BusinessIncome Lost. A displaced person losingbusinessincome (or employment income)
will be entitled to the following rehabilitation measures:

    Mitigation measures for loss of business typically include: (i)    the provision of alternative
    business site of equal size and accessibility to customers: or (ii) compensation to the
                                                                         cash
    owner for lost business structure reflecting full replacement cost of the structure and all
    fixtures: and (iii)transitional payment for all moving-related expenses and for loss of sales or
    income during the period inwhich the businesscannot operate.

    Mitigation measures for permanent loss of employment typically include: (i)        provision of
    alternative employment at equivalent wages, or (ii)      cash settlement equivalent to at least
    three years of lost wages; and (iii)   transitional payment for re-training, relocation or other
    measures necessary for obtaining new employment. Personstemporarily losing employment
    because of project disruption receive transitional wage support untilemployment is resumed.




                                                   92

4.- MaintenanceCosts. Costs of ongoing maintenance are expected to be small, consisting of
possible damage to business, crops andground while improvements are built.

CompensationandAdministrationCosts. Onthe basisof an overall estimate of the case when
most interventions will trigger the application of the RPF, the compensation costs for the Project
havebeenestimated at US$ 12,021,085, includinga 20 percent of contingency.


                   Table 1.Summaryof CompensationCostEstimateinUS$




Implementation Schedule. The implementation of the resettlement framework and specific
resettlementplans, compensation actions social and environmental requirements shall be part of
the overall implementation of the project. The process for implementation of resettlement and
compensationactivities includes the following steps:




                                                 93

               Table 2. Budgetof MainResettlement Activities (US$) and Time Frame

Activity                                                    Time Frame
Formation of a RPFcommittee                                 3 monthsafter project initiatedexecution
Appointment of staff inPUC that would review RP             6 months after initiated Droiectexecution I
Developtrainingplanfor capacitydevelopmentinthe Project 2 weeks after staff, consultantsand
executinginstitution and implementinginstitutions.          contractorshavebeen amointed.
Formation of a GrievanceCommittee for the project which     4 weeks after staff, consultantsand
mustincluderepresentationfrom affectedcommunities           contractorshavebeen amointed.             I
Confirmation of project effectsbasedonthe detailed          7 weeks after staff, consultantsand
engineeringsurvey, designandconstructionplanto be carried contractorshavebeen appointed*.
out.
Carry out final survey andpreparerevisedinventory of PAPs 13 weeks after staff, consultantsand
basedon the detailedengineeringsurvey, design and           contractors havebeen appointed
constructionplan.
Declaration of Cut-off-Date for inventory of PAPs.After this 2 monthsafter final survey andprepare,d
time nofurther peoplewill be acceptedontothe list of PAPs    inventory of PAP'Shasbeenfinalized.
unless they candemonstratethat they were inadvertently
missed inthe surveys andare genuine.
Carry out further community consultationincon-junctionwith 2 monthsafter Cut-off-Date of inventory    I
the preparationof the revisedinventory of PAPS:              of PAP'Shasbeen finalized.
Reviseandfinalize the ResettlementPlan                       1week after Cut-off-Date of inventory of
                                                             PAP'Shasbeenfinalized
Formalprocessfor acquisition of land.                        2 weeks after finalized the Resettlement



Compulsory Acquisition Process:

0   This process can commence from 90 days after communication to acquire land or relocate
    houses or other property has been released.

 0   Issue a formal Notice of Acquisition that land is to be compulsorily acquired or houses or
     other property relocated. This will include the Offer o f Compensation, which will be
     determined in consultation with the SUBDERE to ensure the compensation package is
     sufficient to enable the PAPs to regain their pre-project living standard in accordance with
     World Bankrequirements. This will be communicated to PAPs inperson and in writing.

 0   PAPs may appeal against the offer of compensation, within 30 days. If there is an appeal,
     then negotiation shall be carried out, with SUBDERE as observer. If compensation value
     cannot be agreed by negotiation then an independent mediator shall be appointed to make a
     determination.

 Monitoring and Evaluation. The contracted IMO will establish contact with local authority in
 each Territory for external monitoring of RAP implementation. Key stakeholders, represented by
 PAPs, and vulnerable groups as members of the contracted LMO, will be involved inthe process.
Both internal and external monitoring will be important for providing feedback of monitoring
 findings to management to take necessary action.




                                                  94

Internal Monitoring. The objective of the internal monitoring and supervision is to (i)   verify
that the valuation of assets lost or damaged, andthe provision of compensation, resettlement and
other rehabilitation entitlements, has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the
resettlement policies of Chile and World Bank and the RAP; (ii)         oversee that the RAP is
implemented as designed and approved; and (iii)      verify that funds for implementation of the
RAP are provided by the Project authorities in a timely manner and in amounts sufficient for
their purposes, andthat such funds are usedinaccordancewith the provisions of the RAP.

MonitoringIndicators.The mainindicators that will be monitoredregularly are:

    The PAPs entitlements are in accordance with the approved policy and that the assessment
    of compensationi s carried out inaccordance with agreedprocedures.

    Payment of compensation to the PAPs in the various categories according to the level of
    compensationdescribedinthe RAP.

    Public information and public consultation and grievance procedures are followed as
    describedinthe RAP

    Relocation andpayment of subsistence andshifting allowances are made intimely manner

    Restoration of public facilities andinfrastructure affectedby the Project

    Job creation, as feasible (number of persons who needjob provision and number who have
    foundjob)

    Linkage of satisfactory completion of compensation and resettlement and clearance of all
    encumbrancesandcommencementof civil works.

    All monitoringdata shallbedisaggregatedby gender andindigenous peoples' group.

External Monitoring and Evaluation. An Independent Monitoring Organization (IMO) shall
be appointed to monitor the resettlement and compensation process andimplementation of social
andenvironmentalrequirements to verify that compensation, resettlementandrehabilitation have
been implemented in accordance with the agreed RAP. The IMO will be under the budget of the
RAP.SUBDEREwill hire the M Oto whomit will directly report.

Post ImplementationEvaluation Study. Six months to one year after the end of resettlement
activities, the IMO shall conduct an evaluation study of severely affected PAPs (house relocation
and substation land) and the vulnerable groups among the affected population to determine
whether or not the objectives of the RAP in terms of restoration of incomes and living standards
have been achieved. The survey data thus collected will be compared with the baseline survey
information that has been collected duringthe preparation of the RAP. All data for the evaluation
study will be disaggregatedby gender and indigenous peoples.




                                                 95

Monitoring and Evaluation Reports. The outputs of the RAP monitoringwill include: a brief
methodologicalReport submittedto SUBDERE andWorld Bank within one monthof beginning
the assignment, a second Monitoring Reports submitted to the SUBDERE and World Bank
within 2 weeks of the monitoringperiodand a Finalreport 6 monthsof RAPexecution.




                                            96

                      Annex 10. E.Environmental AssessmentSummary


Most of the proposed subprojects do not entail potential adverse impacts on the environment.
Most of the impacts will be localized and associated with minor construction issues and
concerns. However, the siting of some the subprojects will entail careful considerations in order
to avoid unnecessary environmental damages specially in areas of high environmental
sensitivity.

LegalFramework. Chilean Environmental Law allows for two different types of environmental
assessments, according to the potential magnitude andimportance of the potential environmental
impacts. A full Environmental Impact Study is requiredfor projects which pose potential adverse
impacts on health, natural resources, entail major resettlement of population, are located near
protected areas or have a high potential of affecting the scenic value of an area or could
potentially alter areas of high cultural or historical value. Projects that do not pose potentially
adverse impacts as those mentioned above are subject to more limited Environmental Impact
statements.

In addition to the EA legislation, subprojects will have to comply with specific environmental
and natural resources legislation according to its particular setting. This legislation and the
criteria required for ensuring the appropriate consideration of environmental impacts will be part
of the elements of analysis in the elaboration of the Territorial Development Framework Plans
(PMDTs). InChilethere are specific norms for:

0   cuttingtrees inor near forested areas

    construction activities inor near wetlands

    activities which implyimpacts on localfauna

0   landuseplansimply additional restrictions on subproject location

0   water rights mustbe available for all water supply systems

0   wastewatertreatment plants entail additional health permits

0   projects near culturalproperty sites will follow specific legislations

In addition, construction activities of all subprojects will necessitate permits for burrow pits,
quarries andextraction of river materials.




                                                  97

Environmental Assessment Framework. An Environmental Assessment Framework (available
inproject files) was preparedfor the project that complies with relevant Bank safeguards.

BankSafeguards. The safeguardsthat are potentially triggeredby the project are:

  Environmental Assessment: yes; environmental assessments will be carried out as needed
   according to Chilean Laws and concordant with Bank policies. Subprojects that are
   categorized as A according to World Bank policies andregulations will not be eligible.

   Natural Habitats: no; subprojects will not be allowed inside critical natural habitats

   Resettlement: yes; although expected to be minimal according to the project magnitude of
   subprojects, an abbreviatedresettlementframework will be applied.

   Indigenous peoples: yes; the expectedimpacts are all positive, however, special consultation
   andparticipationprocesseswill be appliedinareas with indigenous population

   Physical Cultural property: yes; chance finding procedureswill be applied to all construction
   activities.

Project Typology. Subprojectsto be financed under the programwere grouped in5 sub-sectors.
Typical activities potentially included ineachsub-sector are presentedinthe following Table.



                                     Rehabilitation of ruralroads
                                     Rehabilitation of bridges
                                     Periodic maintenanceof rural roads
                                     On-site water supply improvements
                                     Water intakes
                                     Storagetanks
                                     Water Treatment plants
                                     Distribution networks andhouse connections
                                     Expansionof water systems
       Sanitation                    On-site sanitationsolutions
                                     Expansionof seweragenetworks
                                     Wastewatertreatment (individual or collective systems)
       Electrification               Network Expansion
                                     Public lightning
                                     Photovoltaic systems
                                     Wind generators
                                     Micro andminihydros
                                      Biomass systems
                                      Geothermalgenerators
       Telecommunications             Ruraltelephonesystems
                                      Ruralcellular phone systems
                                      Radio Communications
                                      Access to digital systems
      ~




                                                  98

Environmental Screening. A screening methodology based on checklists for each project
typology was defined for the project. These checklists include environmental and social issues.

Based on the preliminary screening, subprojects are assigned an environmental Category
following OP 4.01 (A, ByC) and a decision as to what type of environmental work i s requiredis
made. The following table presentsthe required environmental work for the different categories:


r     Category      1san EA required?       1)ecisiodtype of EA

         A          Projectis not eligible  -------------
         B          Yes                     EL4
      Eligible                              EnvironmentalGuidelinesfor DesignandConstruction
         C          Yes                     EIS
      Eligible                              EnvironmentalGuidelines for DesignandConstruction
                    No                      EnvironmentalGuidelinesfor designand Construction




Environmental capacity building. To strengthen the capacity of the Project implementation
units (at the national and regional levels), within the regional offices of the CONAMA
(COREMAS), and of the contractors, communities and/or micro-enterprises responsible for the
implementation and operation of the infrastructure services, a capacity building plan was
developed and agreed upon at appraisal. This planenvisions training activities in each territory
as part of the implementation of the PMDTs to enhance the environmental awareness of
communities, staff of implementation technical units, and entities (e.g., committees, micro-
enterprises, local contractors, or regional offices of the CONAMA) on the environmental
guidelines under the project. The cost of the program has been estimated at US$150,000.
Project resourceshavebeen allocated for the implementation of this program.

 Guidelines related to environmental requirements with due consideration to Chilean regulations
will be included inthe Project Operational Manual. The CONAMA will support the SUBDERE
 instrengtheningthe environmental guidelines under an agreementthat also includes assistancein
 the implementation of the capacity-building program.




                                                    99

                                  Annex 1O.E.ParticipatoryStrategy


Objectives: The main objective of the participatory strategy is to execute the project following
an innovative "Top-Down and Bottom-Up Strategy" through which all political and technical
decisions are made with the articulation of regional political and technical authorities with the
participation of communities andbenefited people all over the Project and Subproject cycles. By
using a participatory the Government of Chile and the World Bank seek to empower indigenous
and non indigenous communities headed by both genders, improve their economic and social
conditions, and improve the decision-making process of regional authorities. The strategy seeks
to strengthen the links between government and civil society andbetween the public and private
sector.

Actors. The Top-Bottom and Bottom-Up Participatory Strategy is an inclusive approach that
seeks to involve all government, public, private and community-based organizations to build
innovative decision-making, implementing andevaluating processes.

The participatory strategy hasbeentestedduring the pilot phase. One of the mainlessonslearned
i s that articulation and coordination of social actors differ across regions. Regional governments
have different ways to build social links between civil society and public institutions.
Community organizations have different forms of self governance, particularly the indigenous
peoples' communities. The degree and level of commitment of the population, ownership and
identity varies acrossmunicipalities andcounties, even among indigenous communities. Another
key lesson is that some regions such as the Region of Bio Bio have already pre-identified and
pre-defined the development territories. The other Regions where the project would be executed
have not pre-identified or pre-defined the development and/or investment territories. Both cases
offer different challengesto the project. Inthe first case, the project has to adjust its participatory
strategy to the existing territories and work with them. While in the second case, the challenge
for the project i s to begin building consensus within regional authorities and establishing the
operational spaces to identify and define territories and insert project's objectives within the
working agenda of regional authorities. In both situations, the project faces the challenge of
establishing key linkages and alliances betweenpublic andprivate actors with civil society actors
(or benefited population). These alliances must reach a Social Pact that reflects the common
interest for improving basic rural infrastructure while fostering production-under            the new
definitionof territory following ahighlyparticipatory decision-making and executing modality.

Upto now, the participatory strategyhas included the following stages and activities, which will
continue to be reviewed, monitored and evaluated along project execution to include necessary
modifications andchanges to adapt the strategyto the continue new challenges:

I.  ConsensusBuildingStrategy.

 1) Dissemination of the project amongregional andlocalauthorities to make public:

         (a) Project objectives, scope, geographical coverage, components.

         (b) Top-Bottom andBottom-Up Participatory Strategy.



                                                  100

       (c) Cost sharingstrategy.

       (d) Promotion of micro-enterprises.

        (e) Participatory Monitoring andEvaluation Strategy.

2) Participation and/or establishment o f political and technical working groups within a
   negotiation space that gatherspublic institutions: private sector andcivil society.

3) Dissemination of project objectives among potentially beneficiary communities.

II.-
   Identification and/or definition of Territories and Sub-territories.

1) Establish the criteria to define territories andsub-territories and select the territories andsub-
   territories inwhich the project will be executed.

2) Validate with regional authorities the selected territories and sub-territories in which the
   project will be executed. The political and technical working groups are the key social actors
    consulted to validate the selectedterritories.

111.- Community ConsensusBuilding

1)Disseminate project amongpotential beneficiaries to makepublic

        (a) Project objectives, scope, geographical coverage, components.

        (b) Top-Bottom andBottom-UpParticipatory Strategy.

        (c) Cost sharing strategy.

        (d) Promotion of micro-enterprises.

        (e) Participatory Monitoring andEvaluation Strategy

2) Present and discuss criteria used to identify and select territories and sub-territories with the
    communities.

3) Present anddiscuss selectedterritories and sub-territories with the communities.

4) Bring to top decision-making institutions (regional governments, political and technical
    tables) the recommendations andsuggestions madeby the communities.

IV.- Top-BottomandBottom-Up Decision-MakingProcess.

1) Conciliate bothdecision-making processes andreach an agreementinterms of definition and
    identification of territories and sub territories.

2) Reacha consensualdevelopment strategy.




                                                   101

V. -Government and ImplementingInstitutions Capacity BuildingProcess

1) Train regional governments intop-bottom and bottom-up participatory and decision-making
   strategy.

2) Organize workshops to train political and technical working groups in the meaning and
   importance of top-bottom andbottom-up participatory anddecision-making strategy.

VI.- Government and Implementing Institutions Capacity Building on Indigenous Peoples
and ResettlementPlans

1) Organize a workshop with all implementing agencies and the CONADI to discuss ways to
   work in indigenous territories and to expedite sub-project execution in critical cases when
   land and water regulation is needed and in cases when the taking of narrow longitudinal
   parcelsof landalong existing roads i s neededto improveroad conditions.

2) Train regional governments and implementing institutions in the minimum requirements
   needed to design, execute and monitor Indigenous Peoples Development and Resettlements
   Planswhen needed.

3) Disseminate the Chilean legislation andWorld Bank Operational Directives andPolicies.

4) Disseminate the respective Annexes of Indigenous Peoples Plan and Resettlement
   Framework included inthis Project Document (PAD) among implementingagencies.

5) Discuss with implementing agencies

VI1.- TerritorialDevelopment FrameworkPlan(Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial).

1) Revise and evaluate public and private investment portfolio in basic infrastructure
    (electricity, roads, connectivity, water, sanitation, sewerage, andtelecommunications).

2) Revise andevaluatethe public and private investment portfolio inproduction.

3) Compare both investment portfolios to determine the infrastructure deficit and link
    infrastructure needs with economic activities to boost participatory and inclusive regional
    development.

4) Based on the analysis of both portfolios define a strategic Territorial Development
    Framework Plan. This plan mustinclude at least the following:

        a. Definition of territories and sub-territories.

        b. Populationbenefited, specifying indigenous andnon-indigenous communities.

        c. Demographic and socio economic characteristics of target population.

               1.        Households by gender.



                                                  102

            ..
            11.      Householdsby ethnic groups-if     applicable--.
           ...
           111.      Age structure.
           iv.       Education levels.

       d. Maineconomic activities.

       e. Inventoryof basic infrastructure andbasic infrastructure deficit

       f. Environmentalassessment.

       g* Peoples' willingness to cost share inkind, inwork or both.

       h. People's willingness to participate in training to form micro enterprises to maintain
          works.

VII1.- Communities' Capacity BuildingStrategy

1) Provide managerial training to existing community organizations or new organizations
   establishedfor the purpose on administeringor managing infrastructure services.

2) Provide technical support onhow to maintaininfrastructure services.

IX.- ParticipatoryEvaluation andMonitoringProcess




                                              103

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                         CHILE: Chile RuralInfrastructureServices




Key institutionsresponsible for preparation of the project:

The SUBDERE was the key institution in charge of preparing the project and implementing the
related PHRD Grant (JPN 52919). The SUBDERE coordinated its activities with other key
Chilean institutions, chiefly among them: MOPTT, Ministry of Finance, MIDEPLAN,Emprende
Chile, Ministry of Agriculture, and the Regional Governments of the Regions of Coquimbo,
Made, Bio Bio, Araucania, y 10s Lagos.

Bankstaff andconsultants who worked on the project included:




                                            104

Bankfundsexpended to date onprojectpreparation:

1. Bankresources: US$231,895

2. Trust funds: US$698,000 (PHRD Grant JPN 52919)

3. Total: US$926,895

Estimated Approval and Supervisioncosts:

1. Remainingcoststo approval: US$35,000

2. Estimated annualsupervision cost: US$90,000




                                           105

                                 Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
                              CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructure Services


Inaddition to the ESW(Report 29037-CL), the followingbackground papersare on file1*:

    e    "Pobreza e Infraestructura Rural en Chile" byMauricio de LaBarra and ESW team

    e    ``Andisis de 10s Sewicios de Infraestructura Rural: Regidn del Maule" by Universidad
         de Talca

    e    "Infraestructura Rural IX Regidn de la Araucania" by Instituto de Desarrollo Local y
         Regional - Universidad de laFrontera (DER-UFRO)

    e    "Estudio de Sustentabilidad de 10s Sewicios de Agua Potable Rural en Chile" by
         Alfonso Alvestegui andESWteam

    e    "Desafos de la Electrificacidn Rural en Chile" by Francisco Covarrubias, Ignacio
         Irarrizaval andRam6nGal&

    e    "Andlisis de la Politica de Subsidiosa1 TransporteRural y de la Accidentabilidad en 10s
         CaminosRurales" by EduardoNiiiiez

    e    "Identificacidn de Componentes y Acciones en la Gestidn y el Mantenimiento de
         CaminosComunalesPrimarios y Secundariosy Vecinales" by H e r n h Otoniel Fernhdez

    e    Consultoria para el Fortalecimiento del Modelo de Gestidn Comunitaria, by Deuman
         Consultancy Services

    e    Estrategia de Disefio Institucional para la Operacidn del Programa de Inversidn en
         Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial,by IGTInvertec

     e   Metologia Participativa en la Identificacidn de Deficits de Infraestructura y Desarrollo
         Productivo a nivel Sub-Territorial, by GIA Consultancy Services

     e   Estrategia Participativa con Pertinencia Etnica y Enfoque de Generopara el Proyecto
         de Infraestructura Rural, by GIA Consultancy Services

     e   Consultoria para el Disefio de las Guias Ambientales del Proyecto de Infraestructura
         para el Desarrollo Territorial, by Golder Associates

     e   Manual Operativodel Proyecto de Infraestructura Rural, by Jorge Barrientos


''This  papers are also digitally available from
http://lnwebl8. worldbank.or~xternal/lac~ac.nsf/Sectors~ner~y&Minin~94
                                                                  13D772F0470C8F85256D80005A9C
 1O?ODenDocument



                                                   106

       Consultoria para el Diseiio de un Programa de Consewacio'n de Red Rural (Comunal
       Secundaria)con Participacio'n Comunitaria, by Jaime Carramifiana

Previous World Bank studies, including "Chile: Poverty and Income Distribution in a High
Growth Economy" (2001), "Estudio de equidad y eficencia - Sistema de Tansferencias del
Goviemo Nacional a 10s Municipios" (2003), and "Chile: New Economy Study'' (2003)provided
additionalbackgroundinformationfor the present document.




                                            107

                                         Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                        CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructure Services


                                                                                                                     Differencebetween
                                                                                                                     expectedandactual
                                                             Original Amount inUS$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose.                                IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF    Cancel.  Undisb13.  Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO82037     2004   CL- Social ProtectionTA                  10.71      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      9.34
PO77282     2003   CLScience for the KnowledgeEconomy       25.26      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     22.70
PO69259     2002   CLPubExpenditureManagement               23.23      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     14.79
PO68271     2002   CLLifelongLeamingandTraining             75.75      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     58.08
PO55481      1999  CLHigher Education                      145.45      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     33.63
PO55480      1999  CLMunicipal DevelopmentI1                10.10      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.21      0.70     10.10        9.88

                                                    Total: 290.5       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    139.24     10.10        9.88




                                                                CHILE
                                                       STATEMENTOF FC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions of US Dollars


                                                               committed                                Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                       IFC

        FY Approval   Company                      Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic.  Loan       Equity    Quasi      Partic.
        1991193       Aconcagua                    0.00       6.45       0.00      0.00      0.00       6.45      0.00       0.00
        1989191/99    Escondida                    0.00       7.48       15.84     0.00      0.00       7.48     12.09       0.00
        1996          FEPASA                       0.00       5.60       0.00      0.00      0.00       5.60      0.00       0.00
        2003          LanChile                     30.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1994196197    MonedaMgt                    0.00       0.46       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.46      0.00       0.00
        1996          ProaFund                     0.00       6.18       0.00      0.00      0.00       6.18      0.00       0.00
        2000          SanAntonio                   34.15      3.70        0.00    62.66     28.90       3.70      0.00      52.91
        2002          San Vicente                  15.00      0.00        0.00      0.00     15.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
        2004          Sonda                        0.00       10.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      10.00      0.00       0.00
        2002          TFSA                         0.00       4.44        0.00      0.00     0.00       4.44      0.00       0.00
        2003          TRANSELEC                    0.00       0.00      60.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     60.00       0.00
        2003          Thames Chile                 33.00      0.00        0.00     33.00    22.50       0.00      0.00      22.50
        2003          U.DiegoPortales              0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00

                                  Total portfilio: 112.15    44.31       75.84     95.66    66.40      44.31     72.09      75.41




         13As of November 16,2004.


                                                                   108

                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                CHILE: ChileRuralInfrastructure Services
                                                                                                                             9115/04

                                                                   Latin    Upper-
                                                                                                                                    I
POUERTYandSOCBU                                                America      mkddle-
                                                        Chile   II Carib.   income      3evalopment diamond.
2003
Population,mid-year fmll/m)                               158       534        335                   Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapna (AFtasm e w , US8                           4,390      3,260      5,340
GNI(Atlas memod, US$tnllbns~                              692      1,941      1$788
AverageannuelgtDwth, 19W-03                                                                                T
                                                           1 3       1 5        1 2
Laborforce (%I
POpUlatkxt(%)
                                                           20        2 1        18      3NI                                  GrosS

Mostrecentestimste(latestyear available,I997-03f                                        ier                                 primary
                                                                                                                          nrdlment
                                                           f ?
                                                           87         n          76
                                                           76         71         73
                                                           10         28         19
Childmalnutrition[% d c/?f!dmunder5)                         1                               Accessto improvedwater source
                                                                                                                                    I
Accass toanimprovedwafer source      of ~wpulabon)         93         86         89
lrteracy (% ofpapu/ahar>age 154                              4        11          9
Grasspnmapyenmliment (% ofSchopI-ggem/atn,RJ              103        129        104        -Chile
   Ma&                                                    1W         $31        t04          -    Upper-nuddle-cncomegroup
   Female                                                 101        126        104

KEYECONQMICR A M SandLONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1883     I993      zoo2       2009      Economicratios'
                                                198       445       674        724
                                                 99       285       22.0       221
                               P                24 0      275       342        345                       Trade
                                                125       24 1      25.6       25.3
                                                 3 9      20.9      208        208                           T
Currenl"I       balance/GDP                               -57        `1.3        1 3
Inkrestpaymd#DP                                  6 9       2 1        24        2 1
Totaldebt/GDP                                   907       45 a      623        49 1
Total deMseMcelexpocts                                    231       329        S5Q
Presentvalueof d&ffGDP                                              61a
Presentvalue of debtlexpofts                                       1773
                                                                                                       Indebtedness
                                    1983-93 199303       2002       zoo3    2003.07
(average anrwalgnwvbh)
GDP                                     75       4.4       2 2        3 3        42
GDP per w l t a                         5 7      3 0       1 0        2 1        3 3
Exportsoi gw& andservices               103      84        56         5 7        61


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                                                                             I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                      5.9       9.2        8.8        8.8    2o

lndustty                                        39.9      35.8      34.3       34.3      0
   Manufacturing                                212       18.5      15.8        15.8
Services                                        54.2      55.0      56.9        56.9    -20

Privateconsumption                              73.3      65.9      63.0        63.3    -401
Generalgovernment consumption                   14.2      10.0      11.5        11.4
Imp& of goods andservices                                                                         --GDI           l O ' G D P



                                             i883-93                2002               [Growth of exportsand imports(%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                              1
Agriculture                                      7.0       2.9        2.1        4.0    al

Industry                                         6.2       4.2        2.1        4.0    10
   Manufacturing                                 6.6       2.3        2.1        4.0
Services                                         8.8       2.9        2.1        4.0     0

                                                                                               -
Privateconsumption                               6.6       4.2       -1.7        3.3    10

General government consumption                   2.0       3.4        2.1        4.0   -201
Grossdomesticinvestment                         15.7       1.8        2.9        5.5                   Exports   -0-lmpOrts
Impottsof gods andservices

Note: 2003 dataare preliminaryestimates.
Thistable wasproducedfromthe DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.
`The diamonds showfour key indicatorsinthe countty(inbold)comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage.If dataare missing,the diamondwill
   beinconwlete.



                                                                  109

                                                                                                                           Chile

PRICESandGOVERNMENTFINANCE                                                                                                       I
                                             1983      1993      2002     2003 -
Domesticprices                                                                                                                   I
(% change)
Consumerprices                               27.3      12.7                        11:
                                                                   2.6      3.0  j10
Implicit GDP deflator                        30.7      10.6        7.6      4.4

Governmenlfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                  ..    23.1       21.5    21.3                96    w      w      01     02
Currentbudget balance                            ..      4.9       2.2      2.6                                                "I
Overall surduddeficit                            ..      2.0       -1.1    -0.7                -GDPdeflator       +CPI


TRADE
                                             1983      1993      2002     2003
(US$millions)
Total exports (fob)                          3,831    9,199     19,133   19,898
 Copper                                      1,875    3,248      7,151   7,437
 Fruits                                        328      870      1,182    1,230
 Manufactures                                1,168    4,056      9,614    9,999
Totalimports(cif)                            3,171    11,134    17,151   18,009
 Food                                          531
 Fueland energy                                592    1.118      2,718    2,854
 Capital goods                                 392    3,013      3,589    3,768

Exportpriceindex (1995=700)                      ..       67        65       64
Importpriceindex (7995=700)                               85       122      120
Tems of trade (1995=100)                         ....     79        53       53

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                             1983      1993      2002     2003
(US$millions)                                                                         Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goodsand services                      _.   11,712    23,019   23,862
Importsof goodsandservices                       .. 12,929      20,594   21,631
Resourcebalance                                  ..   -1,217     2,426    2,231

Net income                                            -1.656    -2,585   -2,654
Net currenttransfers                             ....    320      -739     -493

Currentaccount balance                           ..   -2,553      -898     -916

Financingitems(net)                              ..    3,131     2,063    2,128
Changesinnet reserves                            ..    -578     -1,165   -1,211
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)             ..    9,759    17,495   18,707
Conversionrate (DEC,lowVUS$)                  78.8     404.2     688.9    691.4

EXTERNALDEBTandRESOURCEFLOWS
                                             1983      1993       2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                        :omposition of 2003 de& (Us5 mill.)
Total deMoutstanding anddisbursed           17,928    19,994    41,945   35.534
  IBRD                                         213     1,902       556      503
  IDA                                           19        12          6       5

Total debtservice                            2,631     2,819     7,729    8,515
  IBRD                                          28       314       252      132
  IDA                                            1         1          1       0
Compositionof net resourceRows
  Official grants                               14        84        23
  Officialcreditors                            106      -209       -311    -155
  Privatecrediiors                             943       919     1,385   -6,256
  Foreigndirect investment                     135     1,034     1,713
  Portfolioequity                                0       816       -317                                        F 30,456
World Bankprogram
  Commitments                                  128         0         99       0        4   IBRD                       E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                 24       107         30      45        3--       D Othermultilateral
                                                                                                  -                   F Private
  Principalrepayments                           12       173       202       99        > - IDA
                                                                                           IMF                        G Short-ten
                                                                                                                       ---
  Netflows                                      12       -66       -173     -53
  Interestpayments                              17       142         50      34
  Nettransfers                                  -5      -208       -223     -87


Note:Thistable was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentral database.                                                  9115/04




                                                                    110

