Page  1
CHILE: INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK 
Resettlement Policy (RP) Framework. 
Every reasonable effort is to be made to avoid or 
minimize the need for land acquisition, and to minimize all resettlement-related adverse 
impacts. When voluntary donations of land or assignment of rights take place the 
procedures of this Annex will not apply.  When resettlement and/or displacement are 
unavoidable a resettlement plan must be approved by the World Bank. The 
implementation of the RP will meet the requirements of the Chilean Indigenous Peoples 
Law 19.253 , the Expropriation Decree Law 2186, Dictate 2755 for resettlement, and the 
Environment Law 19.300. Local needs, investment and technical preferences must be 
identified through direct consultation and participatory approach.  It must also meet 
World Bank safeguards such OP/BP 4.12 and Environmental Assessment OP/BP/GP 4.01 
and Cultural Property OPN 11.03 revised as OP 4.10. 
All resettlements plans have to be presented to the World Bank for its review and 
approval prior to the execution of subprojects. All resettlements plans must include: (a) 
interinstitutional agreements as needed for expropriation, compensation, rights-of-way, 
(b) detailed activities and schedule, and (c) detailed costs and financing source. 
The procedures, actions and guidelines contained in this Annex will be applied in all 
cases when resettlement impacts affecting indigenous peoples are generated by project 
interventions.  The objective of the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is to ensure 
that all persons subjected to adverse impacts ("displaced persons" as defined below) are 
compensated
—if displaced—at replacement cost for lost assets and otherwise provided 
with any rehabilitation measures or other forms of assistance necessary to provide them 
with sufficient opportunity to improve, or at least restore, their incomes and living 
standards. 
Responsibility
:
The execution of Resettlement Plans prepared as per the RPF is the 
responsibility of Regional Governments’ Operative Units and Implementation Technical 
Units such as those of the MOPTT or the National Energy Commission under the 
Ministry of Economy. As CONADI plays a key technical role in all regions and 
territories where indigenous peoples reside, as part of the current regional institutional 
framework and procedures, the CONADI will support the steps and procedures involved 
in the application of the RPF. 
Definition of Terms: 
·
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). 
The RPF is a framework with budget 
setting out resettlement strategy, objectives, entitlement, actions, responsibilities, 
monitoring, and evaluation. 
·
Project Affected Person 
(PAP) indicates any juridical person being as it may an 
individual, a household, a firm or a private or public who, on account of the 
RP290 
Page  2
execution of the Project, or any of its components or sub-projects or parts thereof 
would have there: Right, tide or interest in any house, land (including residential, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or moveable asset acquired or 
possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily; or Business, occupation, 
work, place of residence or habitat adversely affected; or Standard of living 
adversely affected. 
·
Severely Affected Person 
for this Project is defined as a person who will (a) lose 
20
percent or more of total agriculture/aquaculture land holding, and/or (b) 
relocate and/or loses more than 50 percent of their main residential and/or 
commercial structure, and/or (c) lose US$200 or more of total income sources due 
to the Project. 
·
Land Acquisition 
means the process whereby a person is compelled by a public 
agency to alienate all or part of the land she/he owns or possesses, to the 
ownership and possession of that agency, for public purpose in return for fair 
compensation. 
·
Replacement Cost 
means the cost of replacing lost assets and incomes, including 
cost of transactions. If land, it means the cost of buying a replacement land near 
the lost land with equal productive potential and it or better legal status, including 
transaction costs. If structures, the replacement cost is the current fair market 
price of building materials and required labor cost without depreciation or 
deductions for salvaged building material or other transaction cost. Market prices 
will be used for crops, trees and other commodities. 
·
Resettlement Plan
,
full or abbreviated, as explained later in pages 84 and 85. 
·
Resettlement Effects 
mean all negative situations directly caused by the 
subprojects, including loss of land, property, income generation opportunity, and 
cultural assets. 
·
Relocation 
means the physical relocation of a PAP from her/his pre-Project place 
of
residence. 
·
Rehabilitation 
means the process to restore income earning capacity, production 
levels and living standards in a longer term.  
·
Compensation 
means payment in cash or in kind to replace losses of land, 
housing, income and other assets caused by a project. 
Framework Principles: 
·
Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be minimized 
as much as possible by identifyin
g
possible alternative subprojects’ designs, and 
appropriate social, economic, operational and engineering solutions. 
Page  3
·
The populations affected by the Project are defined as those who may stand to 
lose, as a consequence of the implementation of subprojects, all or part of 
physical and non physical assets, including homes, homesteads, productive lands, 
commercial properties, tenancy, income earning opportunities, social and cultural 
activities and relationships, and other losses that may be identified during the 
process of resettled planning. 
·
All PAPs who will
 be iden
tified in the project impacted areas as of the date of the 
updated census and inventory of losses, will be entitled to be compensated for 
their lost assets, incomes and businesses at full replacement cost and provided 
with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist them to improve or at least 
maintain their pre- subproject living standards, income earning capacity and 
production levels. 
·
Resettlement would be minimized in indigenous people’s territories (ADIS). If 
necessary action is needed to be taken, for instance, of longitudinal trenches of 
land or for the installation of minor equipment or works, and rights of way, etc it 
would precede only if there is a consensual signed agreement with the community 
in question.  
·
Implementing institutions have a fully understanding that religious sites and 
cultural property must be respected. 
·
All affected populations will be equally eligible for compensation and 
rehabilitation assistance, irrespective of tenure status, social or economic 
standing, and any such factors that may discriminate against achieving the 
objectives outlined above. 
·
The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) cash compensation for houses 
and other structures at replacement cost of materials and labor without deduction 
for depreciation or salvageable materials; (ii) replace agricultural land for land of 
equal productive capacity acceptable to the PAP; full title to replacement 
residential and commercial land of equal size acceptable to the PAP; or, at the 
informed decision of the PAP, cash for replacement land at replacement cost at 
current market value; (iv) cash compensation for crops and trees at current market 
value; and (v) relocation allowances and rehabilitation assistance. 
·
There will be no deduction in payments for salvage value, depreciation, taxes, 
stamp duty, fees, or any other payments 
·
Sufficient time will be allowed for replacement structures to be built before 
construction begins 
·
Temporarily affected land and communal infrastructure will be restored to pre-
project conditions. 
Page  4
·
Existing cultural, archeological sites and religious practices shall be respected 
and, to the maximum extent practical, preserved. 
·
Adequate budgetary support will be fully committed and be made available to 
cover the costs of land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation within the 
agreed implementation period. 
·
Special measures shall be incorporated in the RAP and complementary mitigation 
and enhancement activities to protect socially and economically vulnerable 
groups such as, women-headed families, children and elderly people without 
support structures and people living in extreme poverty. 
·
Executing institution of specific subproject has the responsibility to ensure that 
grievance procedures shall be established and in place and PAPs informed of 
them before any resettlement activities begin. 
·
Details of the RAP shall be distributed to the PAPs and placed in territories’ 
offices for the reference of affected people as well any interested groups. 
·
Appropriate reporting, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms will be identified 
and set in place as part of the resettlement management system and an 
independent monitor hired before commencement of any resettlement activities.  
Each implementing institution will carry out, or cause to be carried out, a census survey 
to identify and enumerate the persons to be displaced by a subproject, if that is the case, 
and a socioeconomic survey to determine the range and scope of adverse impacts in the 
affected area as a consequence of that displacement. The census survey must cover 100% 
of the persons to be displaced; the socioeconomic survey may be undertaken on a sample 
basis. The surveys that may be undertaken separately or simultaneously would determine 
whether a full RP or an "abbreviated" RP is necessary. 
When the number of persons 
affected exceeds 200 a full RP is necessary
.
Otherwise an abbreviated RP may be 
prepared where impacts on the entire affected population are minor or fewer than 200 
people, or that affected people are not physically displaced and/or less than 10% of their 
productive assets are lost. 
Full Resettlement Plan (FRP).  
A
FRP must be prepared based on accurate baseline 
census and socioeconomic survey information, and must establishes appropriate 
mitigation measures (e.g.- compensation for assets, transitional assistance, economic 
rehabilitation assistance) for all categories of adverse impacts. A Full and/or abbreviated 
RP must be reviewed and accepted by the Bank prior approval of subprojects.  
FRP must address, at least, the following issues: (a) description of the activity causing 
land acquisition; (b) range and scope of potential adverse impacts; (c) socioeconomic 
survey and baseline census survey information; (d) specific compensation rates (or 
alternative measures) for all categories of affected assets; (e) other measures, if any, 
necessary to provide opportunities for economic rehabilitation of displaced persons; (f) 
eligibility criteria for compensation and all other forms of assistance; (g) relocation 
Page  5
arrangements, if necessary, including transitional support; (h) selection and preparation of 
sites, if necessary; (i) restoration or replacement of community infrastructure and 
services; (j) organizational arrangements for implementation; (k) consultation and 
disclosure arrangements; (l) resettlement implementation schedule; (m) costs and budget; 
(n) monitoring arrangements; and (o) grievance procedures. 
An abbreviated RP
 also must be based on policy objectives, planning and 
implementation arrangements established in this RPF. An abbreviated RP must include, 
at least, the following issues: 
 
A census survey of displaced persons and valuation of assets; 
 
Description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided; 
 Eligibility 
criteria; 
 
Consultation and disclosure arrangements; 
 
Organizational arrangements for implementation 
 
Timetable and budget; 
 Monitoring 
arrangements; 
 
Grievance procedures; and 
 
Arrangements for monitoring and implementation. 
Eligibility Criteria: 
In General terms, among eligible people are: 
·
Persons with documented property rights; 
·
Persons with rights recognized in law, but not formally documented (e.g. no 
registered deed). This applies, for example, to heirs of a piece of land which 
has not been probated. 
·
Persons with no legally recognized rights, but who are the bona fide 
occupants of a piece of land or a home such as for example, the squatters. The 
recognition of squatter’s rights would depend more on the Chilean Law than on 
World Bank policy framework 
·
Resettlement will be avoided in indigenous peoples’ territories.  If it is 
unavoidable it is an indispensable requirement that the indigenous community 
authority, selected by the indigenous community in question, signs an agreement 
with the community allowing such an action.  Such signed agreement must be 
submitted to the respective implementation technical unit, which will in turn 
submit the agreement to the SUBDERE along with the resettlement plan 
(including the above-mentioned requirements for any resettlement plan).
 
Page  6
·
Expropriation of narrow longitudinal trenches of land to widen rural roads, to 
place electrical poles or water tanks will be agreed between indigenous peoples 
and local implementing technical units with the purpose of taking account the 
indigenous peoples needs and cultural traditions. If this expropriation is 
unavoidable, the indigenous community authority must sign an agreement with 
the relevant Implementation Technical Unit allowing such action. Such signed 
agreement must be submitted to SUBDERE prior to the beginning of the 
subproject interventions.
 
More specifically, the following people are also eligible: 
1.- 
Agricultural Land Lost
.
Displaced persons losing agricultural land will be entitled to 
the following types of compensation and rehabilitation measures: 
1.  Typically, collectively-owned cultivated land remaining after acquisition will be 
reallocated among all members of the community. This would apply more to 
indigenous peoples land named as ADIS, according to Chilean Indigenous 
Peoples Law. Under these circumstances, all displaced persons are eligible for a 
share of reallocated land, and to benefit from collective investment of land 
compensation. 
2.  In situations where land reallocation is not possible, the displaced persons who 
actually are to lose their share of collectively owned agricultural land must be 
identified. In some instances, they may be provided with employment with wages 
at least equivalent to income lost. In other cases they may be paid a resettlement 
subsidy normally equivalent to at least 6 times the average annual production 
output value of the land in the previous three years. If this is not sufficient to 
restore livelihoods, the subsidy may be raised to as much as 14 times the average 
annual output value; 
3.  If land compensation and resettlement subsidies paid are still insufficient, the 
resettlement subsidies may be further increased upon approval by the government; 
4.  Land compensation and resettlement subsidies are paid to PAP, whose land is 
affected and will be used for (i) increasing land areas under cultivation if land is 
available, (ii) intensification of agriculture through provision of irrigation, 
improved agricultural practices and, (iii) development of non-agriculture based 
income generation activities. Individual displaced persons will be compensated at 
replacement cost for the loss of standing crops, fruit or industrial trees, as well as 
any fixed assets: 
5.  Displaced persons whose land is temporarily taken to facilitate construction will 
be
compensated for their loss of income, standing crops and for the cost of soil 
restoration and damaged infrastructures. 
Page  7
2.- 
Auxiliary Structures Lost
.
Displaced persons losing house and auxiliary structures 
will be entitled to the following compensation and rehabilitation measures:  a) Provision 
of replacement housing of equivalent value; or b) Compensation at full replacement cost; 
and c) Compensation for replacement or restoration of all facilities and services (e.g., 
electricity, telephone, cable television, school enrollment fees), d) Transitional 
allowances as necessary to move all belongings, or to obtain temporary housing if 
necessary; and e) Special measures or preferences as necessary to enable poor or 
vulnerable households to obtain replacement housing that meets minimum community 
standards.  If partial acquisition would render a house or structure unsafe or no longer 
functional, it should be acquired in its entirety. 
3.- 
Business Income Lost
.
A
displaced person losing business income (or employment 
income) will be entitled to the following rehabilitation measures: 
·
Mitigation measures for loss of business typically include: (i) the provision of 
alternative business site of equal size and accessibility to customers: or (ii) cash 
compensation to the owner for lost business structure reflecting full replacement 
cost of the structure and all fixtures: and (iii) transitional payment for all moving-
related expenses and for loss of sales or income during the period in which the 
business cannot operate. 
·
Mitigation measures for permanent loss of employment typically include: (i) 
provision of alternative employment at equivalent wages, or (ii) cash settlement 
equivalent to at least three years of lost wages; and (iii) transitional payment for 
re-training, relocation or other measures necessary for obtaining new 
employment. Persons temporarily losing employment because of project 
disruption receive transitional wage support until employment is resumed. 
4.- 
Maintenance Costs
.
Costs of ongoing maintenance are expected to be small, 
consisting of possible damage to business, crops and ground while improvements are 
built.  
Compensation and Administration Costs. 
On the basis of an overall estimate of the 
case when most interventions will trigger the application of the RPF, the compensation 
costs for the Project have been estimated at US$ 12,021,085, including a 20 percent of 
contingency. 
Page  8
Table 1. Summary of Compensation Cost Estimate in US $ 
LAND COSTS 
Cost (US $) 
Electrical poles 
101,526 
Telecommunications 67,684 
Water Tanks 
710,682 
Expand and Improve Rural Roads 
913,734 
COSTS FOR LAND ACQUISITION 
 
Agricultural Land 
2,030,520 
Auxiliary Structures 
676,840 
Business Income 
338,42 
Maintenance or construction Impacts 
676,840 
Resettlement allowance 
1,353,680 
Cost of living allowance 
676,840 
Vulnerability allowance 
338,420 
Compensation cost for trees. 
33,842 
MONITORING 
 
Independent Monitoring 
791,903 
TOTAL ADMINISTRATION  COSTS (15%) 
1,306,640 
TOTAL COMPENSATION COSTS WITHOUT CONTINGENCY  
10,017,571 
TOTAL COMPENSATION COSTS WITH CONTINGENCY (20%) 
2,003,514 
Implementation Schedule. 
The implementation of the resettlement framework and 
specific resettlement plans, compensation actions social and environmental requirements 
shall be part of the overall implementation of the project. The process for implementation 
of resettlement and compensation activities includes the following steps: 
Table 2.  Budget of  Main Resettlement Activities (US$) and Time Frame 
Activity Time 
Frame 
Formation of a RPF committee 
3 months after project initiated execution 
Appointment of staff in PUC that would review RP 
6 months after initiated project execution 
Develop training plan for capacity development in the Project 
executing institution and implementing institutions. 
2
weeks after staff, consultants and 
contractors have been appointed. 
Formation of a Grievance Committee for the project which must 
include representation from affected communities 
4
weeks after staff, consultants and 
contractors have been appointed. 
Confirmation of project effects based on the detailed engineering 
survey, design and construction plan to be carried out. 
7
weeks after staff, consultants and 
contractors have been appointed*.  
 
Carry out final survey and prepare revised inventory of PAPs based 
on the detailed engineering survey, design and construction plan. 
13 weeks after staff, consultants and 
contractors have been appointed 
Declaration of Cut-off-Date for inventory of PAPs. After this time 
no further people will be accepted onto the list of PAPs unless they 
can demonstrate that they were inadvertently missed in the surveys 
and are genuine. 
2
months after final survey and prepared 
inventory of PAP’s has been finalized. 
Carry out further community consultation in conjunction with the 
preparation of the revised inventory of PAPs. 
2
months after Cut-off-Date of inventory of 
PAP’s has been finalized. 
Revise and finalize the Resettlement Plan 
1 week after Cut-off-Date of inventory of 
PAP’s has been finalized 
Formal process for acquisition of land. 
2 weeks after finalized the Resettlement Plan 
Page  9
Compulsory Acquisition Process: 
·
This process can commence from 90 days after communication to acquire land or 
relocate houses or other property has been released.  
·
Issue a formal Notice of Acquisition that land is to be compulsorily acquired or 
houses or other property relocated. This will include the Offer of Compensation, 
which will be determined in consultation with the SUBDERE to ensure the 
compensation package is sufficient to enable the PAPs to regain their pre-project 
living standard in accordance with World Bank requirements. This will be 
communicated to PAPs in person and in writing. 
·
PAPs may appeal against the offer of compensation, within 30 days. If there is an 
appeal, then negotiation shall be carried out, with SUBDERE as observer. If 
compensation value cannot be agreed by negotiation then an independent 
mediator shall be appointed to make a determination.  
Monitoring and Evaluation. 
The contracted IMO will establish contact with local 
authority in each Territory for external monitoring of RAP implementation. Key 
stakeholders, represented by PAPs, and vulnerable groups as members of the contracted 
IMO, will be involved in the process. Both internal and external monitoring will be 
important for providing feedback of monitoring findings to management to take 
necessary action. 
Internal Monitoring. 
The objective of the internal monitoring and supervision is to (i) 
verify that the valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation, 
resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements, has been carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the resettlement policies of Chile and World Bank and the RAP; (ii) 
oversee that the RAP is implemented as designed and approved; and (iii) verify that funds 
for implementation of the RAP are provided by the Project authorities in a timely manner 
and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are used in accordance 
with the provisions of the RAP.  
Monitoring Indicators. 
The main indicators that will be monitored regularly are: 
·
The PAP's entitlements are in accordance with the approved policy and that the 
assessment of compensation is carried out in accordance with agreed procedures. 
·
Payment of compensation to the PAPs in the various categories according to the 
level of compensation described in the RAP. 
·
Public information and public consultation and grievance procedures are followed 
as described in the RAP 
·
Relocation and payment of subsistence and shifting allowances are made in 
timely manner 
Page  10
·
Restoration of public facilities and infrastructure affected by the Project 
·
Job creation, as feasible (number of persons who need job provision and number 
who have found job) 
·
Linkage of satisfactory completion of compensation and resettlement and 
clearance of all encumbrances and commencement of civil works.  
·
All monitoring data shall be disaggregated by gender and indigenous peoples’ 
group. 
External Monitoring and Evaluation.  
An Independent Monitoring Organization (IMO) 
shall be appointed to monitor the resettlement and compensation process and 
implementation of social and environmental requirements to verify that compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation have been implemented in accordance with the agreed 
RAP. The IMO will be under the budget of the RAP. SUBDERE will hire the IMO to 
whom it will directly report. 
Post Implementation Evaluation Study.  
Six months to one year after the end of 
resettlement activities, the IMO shall conduct an evaluation study of severely affected 
PAPs (house relocation and substation land) and the vulnerable groups among the 
affected population to determine whether or not the objectives of the RAP in terms of 
restoration of incomes and living standards have been achieved. The survey data thus 
collected will be compared with the baseline survey information that has been collected 
during the preparation of the RAP. All data for the evaluation study will be disaggregated 
by gender and indigenous peoples. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports. 
The outputs of the RAP monitoring will include:  
a
brief methodological Report submitted to SUBDERE and World Bank within one 
month of beginning the assignment, a second Monitoring Reports submitted to the 
SUBDERE and World Bank within 2 weeks of the monitoring period and a Final report 6 
months of RAP execution.
 
