Page  1
CHILE: INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES PLAN 
Principles for the Application of Safeguard Policies 
A
key element of project implementation consists of the participation of the possible 
beneficiaries in order to establish a virtuous relationship between their demands and 
public interventions.  This is achieved through the application of the social evaluation and 
participatory methodologies developed during project preparation.  In this respect, the 
participation of the population in the eligible territories will be an integral part of the 
PMDT-elaboration process and subproject implementation, regardless of the socio-
economic, gender or ethnic characteristics of that population. 
The territories to be identified and selected under the project will likely present diverse 
socio-economic characteristics and in each case the PMDT will reflect the particular 
heterogeneous profile of the territory’s population, seeking the appropriate social 
inclusion and environmental sustainability.  Both the diagnostic, the technical design of 
subproject, and the estimation of subproject impacts will count with the participation, as 
pertinent, of the public entities involved with social and environmental issues (CONADI-
MIDEPLAN, CONAMA, National Women Service—or Servicio Nacional de la Mujer—
Council for National Monuments, etc.) 
The current Chilean normative and legal framework include appropriate and exhaustive 
consideration of social and environmental issues, and will be an integral part of the 
actions to be carried out under the project and the contracts to be executed for the 
implementation of subprojects.  The project however will not use country systems per se 
albeit it will use the country’s institutional framework and capabilities while meeting all 
Bank standards and requirements.  The key Chilean entities involved in social and 
environmental matters (CONADI, CONAMA) will provide counterpart support to ensure 
the application of the normative and legal framework and the carrying out of capacity-
strengthening actions at the national and regional level, while ensuring the application of 
Bank procedures and requirements. 
Social Assessment Summary 
SUBDERE commissioned the implementation of a comprehensive social assessment as 
part of project preparation to generate information on socio-economic and cultural 
information that are relevant to local infrastructure projects.  The study also addressed 
Bank safeguard issues related to indigenous people (OP 4.20), involuntary resettlement 
(OP 4.11) and cultural property (OPN 4.11).  The extensive study results are included in 
the project files and the recommendations have been integrated into the project design. 
Safeguard issues.
 
Since the rural areas in region IX and part of region VIII where the 
project will be implemented has a good portion of indigenous population, even though 
IPP108 
Page  2
the bulk of beneficiaries are non-indigenous, the project has been designed with the 
provisions of World Bank Policy related to Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), and has 
prepared an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). Although it is unlikely that 
the project will engage in resettlement activities, provisions have still been made in case 
any resettlement issue may arise. The application of Bank policies on Cultural Property 
(OPN 4.11) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) were reviewed in order to prepare 
guidelines for a possible resettlement plan.  The preparation of these plans also included a 
review of Bank policy compared to the Chilean legislation.  It is also worth noting that a 
comprehensive IPDP and RP was prepared as part of a proposed Watershed Management 
Project and these documents also provided a good foundation for the recommendations of 
this project. 
Methodology for the Social Impact and Participatory Assessment
 (SIPA). This was 
conducted using beneficiary surveys and semi-structured interviews of key informants. 
Secondary demographic and socio-economic information also contributed to build a 
detailed characterization and changes that beneficiary communities included in the pilot 
areas of the project have gone through in the last few years. The study carefully analyzed 
demographic and socioeconomic conditions of indigenous and no- indigenous 
populations, and also took into account gender issues. Fieldwork was carried out in the 
VIII and IX regions, and included 4 municipalities and 4 representative communities 
(with a focus on selecting indigenous areas).  The results of these studies were also used 
to prepare the afore-mentioned IPDP. 
The 
objective of socioeconomic impact
 
analysis 
is to assess the magnitude and 
distribution of both direct and indirect effects. Past efforts at assessing the impact of 
infrastructure projects have typically been limited due to the lack of available 
demographic and economic baseline and control data. The SIPA carried out as part of 
project preparation is aimed at providing useful baseline data in diagnostic areas of the 
target population, assess in a more systematic way potential impacts and to identify 
potential risks. 
Some key data on the project regions 
shows that they have the highest percentage of 
rural population compared to other regions of the country. The regions also include the 
largest percentages of indigenous population.  At national level the indigenous population 
registers low rates at 5%, of which 83% is Mapuche, most of whom live in the IX and X 
regions recording 33 and 16, respectively. In terms of age structure, about the 40% of the 
rural population ranks between 30 and 64 years old while an average of 25% belong to 
the age group 0-14 years old and about 20% to the age group 15-29. 
 
Poverty
.
Despite Chile’s improvements in infrastructure, and especially in electricity, 
coverage is still limited in the rural dispersed and isolated populations, and even more so 
where indigenous communities live. These communities have historically registered 
higher poverty rates. From 1992 to 2000, poverty rates in large dropped across the 
country moving from 38% to 21%. But, still the 24% of rural population lives under the 
poverty line. In the same years urban income increased 89% while rural income only 
increased 36%. The project regions register higher poverty rates running from 21% (VII, 
VIII Region) to 33% (X Region). 
Page  3
Ethnicity and Poverty
.
There is a correlation between indigenous peoples and poverty 
since indigent or --extremely poor-- indigenous population is about 10% while non- 
indigenous is only 5.4%. According to official data, in 2000, rural indigent indigenous 
peoples totaled about 14.7% while only 7.5% of non-indigenous registered as indigent 
and 21.4% indigenous peoples were classified as non-indigent rural poor in contrast to 
14.7% non-indigenous rural poor (see MIDEPLAN, 2000, 
Etnia y Pobreza en Chile
). 
While 10% of indigenous poor households depend on subsidies only 7% of non-
indigenous households do so. The SIPA fieldwork confirmed that indigenous households 
have lower income and higher dependency on government subsidies, and that there are a 
large percentage of indigenous peoples living under poverty line in the project areas. 
However, the four municipalities studied are not homogeneous in the indigenous 
population and poverty rates. Ercilla is the most rural (64.2%) and gathers not only the 
most of Mapuche population but also the indigenous rural Mapuche. In Los Alamos 
overall 13% of total population is Mapuche, however in rural areas, this figures increases 
to 38%. The entire community of Renaico registers the lowest Mapuche population, but 
at rural level it gathers a high percentage of Mapuche people 42.8. Poverty data shows 
that there is, indeed, a correlation between ethnicity and poverty since Ercilla and Los 
Alamos show that almost 50% of the population lives under poverty line (Tables 37 and 
39 of SIPA). 
Access to infrastructure services in the five project regions
:
Table 10.1 shows the lag 
in coverage of electricity, potable water and sanitation at the national level between rural 
and urban areas, and as well as the regional differences.  The rural areas of project 
regions in some cases show coverage figures above the national rural average and also 
below. This is a mainly a reflection of a centralized and sectoral approach to planning, 
which does not address the comprehensive development of rural areas on a territorial 
basis. 
Table 1.  Coverage of Basic Services by Urban and Rural Areas in Project Execution Areas 
Electricty 
Potable  
Water 
Sanitation and 
Sewerage 
Región 
1992 
2002 
1992 
2002 
1992 
2002 
Chile 
Urban 
97.5 98.9 97.7 98.7 80.9 96.9 
Chile 
Rural 
53.1 85.7 26.5 42.9 13.9 51.3 
IV 
Urban 
96.4 98.4 96.9 98.9 76.4 96.4 
IV 
Rural 
54.1 78.7 40.3 66.1  8.9  37.7 
VII 
Urban 
95.7 98.9 97.2 98.2 76.3 95.5 
VII 
Rural 
62.6 91.2 28.7 50.9 12.0 45.5 
VIII 
Urban 
94.4 98.5 95.6 98.0 68.5 94.8 
VIII 
Rural 
95.3 87.9 16.5 23.3 10.4 44.7 
IX 
Urban 
93.6 98.1 97.6 98.7 71.3 96.6 
IX 
Rural 
23.0 75.9 9.2 17.9 9.0 48.4 
X
Urban 94.6 97.9 95.5 97.5 68.8 95.4 
X
Rural 37.8 79.3 11.6 22.7 13.4 58.5 
Source: INE. Censo de Población y Vivienda. 2002. 
Page  4
The SIPA provides a detailed analysis of the four pilot areas of the project in terms of 
poverty, ethnicity and access to infrastructure. It also assessed beneficiary priorities for 
infrastructure improvement and willingness to participate in the project and pay for 
services. Communities had a high priority for improvements of their rural roads, and a 
higher willingness to pay for potable water.  However, the SIPA also showed that not all 
communities’ members were willing to pay for project benefits, beyond in-kind 
contributions, and so it will be critically important to implement detailed demand 
assessment and participatory analysis of investment alternatives to ensure that any 
solution proposed meets local willingness and capacity to use and sustain the services.  
Communities also expressed that there is a lack of coordination across sectors and 
government interventions, many of which do not correspond to community priorities. 
The SIPA report recommends specific actions to work with Mapuches and other 
indigenous peoples, which were discussed with top officials of the CONADI, SERPLAC 
and MOPTT
1
.
There also included lessons from other programs and projects executed in 
these regions such as Origenes financed by IADB. Some of the recommendations include 
the need to recognize the traditional forms of organization and respect cultural 
expressions of the indigenous communities. CONADI officials recommend working with 
indigenous traditional forms of organizations, which could: (a) contribute to effectively 
manage investments and foster sustainability, (b) ensure the adequate definition of 
territories, when applicable, (c) fully take into account cultural and language background 
of target indigenous population (and project staff working in Mapuche communities have 
been trained in these aspects) and (d) set a clear system of indicators and monitoring and 
evaluation system which allows for a mid-term review to identify and correct bad 
practices, processes, impacts and or results.  Project regional staff must be trained in 
monitoring and evaluation skills for this purpose. 
Before the initiation of a PMDT in a territory with preponderance of indigenous peoples, 
the Regional Management Unit will consult with the regional CONADI-MIDEPLAN 
offices to identify and take into account the existing Indigenous Peoples Development 
Plans in that territory, in order to articulate the PMDT and project interventions with the 
strategies and actions already identified in those plans.   In this manner, the project will 
strengthen current plans in line with Bank policies. 
Responsibility: 
Design and execution of the IPDP specific actions is the responsibility of 
implementing institutions such as Regional Governments’ Operative Units and Technical 
counterparts of institutions such as MOPTT, specifically the Directorate of Roads (DV), 
the Directorate of Hydraulic Works (DOH) or the Deputy Secretariat for 
Telecommunications (SUBTEL).  CONADI plays a key technical role in all regions and 
territories where indigenous peoples reside.  Therefore, as part of the current regional 
institutional framework and procedures, CONADI will be part of the elaboration of 
PMDTs and subprojects, contributing with its knowledge and expertise in territories with 
preponderance of indigenous peoples, as pertinent, strengthening the consideration of 
ethnic issues in all subprojects and in the evaluation and monitoring systems.  
1
Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Publicas MOPTT) has prepared a Participatory Manual to 
build civil works in Mapuche indigenous peoples communities.   
Page  5
According to the Chilean Indigenous Law 19.243 the institution in charge of indigenous 
peoples development is the National Corporation of Indigenous Peoples (CONADI). The 
CONADI is a decentralized autonomous entity of the MIDEPLAN, subject to the 
oversight of the MIDEPLAN and the 
Intendente
 and authorities at the regional level.  The 
Article 39 of the Law establishes that the CONADI is the organization in charge of 
promoting, coordinating and executing actions oriented to foster an integral development 
of indigenous peoples mostly on the economic, social and cultural issues. It also manages 
the land and water rights fund. 
All implementing institutions will take into consideration the diversity and existence of 
ethnic groups (such as Diaguitas a
nd
Collas) in the project’s eligible territories. 
Some conclusions of the Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Plan are the 
following: 
(a) All regions where the project will be executed have indigenous peoples. However, the 
larger percentage of indigenous peoples is located in the Bio Bio and Araucania 
Regions. The Mapuche predominate in these regions.  
(b) In those regions with presence of indigenous peoples not recognized as “
originarias
”
communities, the project will consider the specific cultural characteristics through the 
social assessment methodology (that will be part of the elaboration of the PMDTs), 
including the traditional forms of land tenure, production activities, and 
organizational representation modalities. 
(c) Most indigenous communities have local forms of community organization upon 
which they rely to faithfully represent community interests, opinions, investment 
areas, definition of territories and development concerns. 
(d) Most indigenous communities have a clear sense of ethnic identity and desire to 
maintain their distinctive identity, and culture. 
(e) Most rural indigenous communities are interested in improving their basic 
infrastructure, and especially roads and potable water. 
(f) Some indigenous communities still have deficits in access to health, education and 
basic services, and exhibit illiterate rates that will require specific and appropriate 
communication strategies. 
(g) Based upon the Chilean law, territories named Development Indigenous Areas (
Area 
de Desarrollo Indigena
)
can be constituted. 
(h) Definition of “territories” based upon “productive variables” might or not coincide 
with the geographic definition and limits of ADIS. When defining project working 
territories or sub territories, these ADIS cannot be divided. 
(i)  Project-related indigenous communities—like other rural communities—are aware of 
their right to participate in governmental projects that affects them.  In the context of 
Page  6
the elaboration of the PMDTs, as it will be done with any other rural populations and 
in all the eligible territories irrespective of their socio-economic characteristics, 
indigenous peoples will be informed and consulted regarding subprojects that affect 
them.  
Based upon on the above, as part of the IPDP, SUBDERE must ensure that the following 
actions are executed, in territories with preponderance of ethnic groups and by the 
relevant entities, for the identification of territories, the elaboration of PMDTs, and the 
preparation of subprojects. All activities related to the IPDP will be financed with 
counterpart funds. 
(a) The Regional governments will include the participation of CONADI in the technical 
working groups in charge of identifying and defining territories. 
(b) Implementation Technical Units will coordinate closely with CONADI when any of 
the following actions need to be executed: (a) facilitation, as applicable depending of 
the requirements of the subprojects, of the acquisition of small parcel of lands or 
possible regularization of land titles for the implementation of infrastructure 
subprojects, (b) regularization of water rights, (d) definition of timetable and 
procedures for land and water regularization, (d) initiation and processing of land and 
water rights to ensure that indigenous peoples will benefit from subprojects,  and (e) 
ascertaining that indigenous territories that constitute a geographic unit are not 
divided to execute specific subprojects. 
(c) Implementing institutions must design and execute the specific actions listed at the 
end of this Annex to ensure synergies between the PMDTs in those areas with 
preponderance of indigenous peoples and existing indigenous peoples development 
plans in the territories, including specific institutional arrangements and detailed 
costs for each subproject to be developed in indigenous territories (ADIS), in 
indigenous territories not organized as ADIS and/or, in general, in areas where 
indigenous peoples reside. 
(d) Implementing institutions have an understanding that participatory process must 
follow a demand-based approach (see Annex 10.E).  The indigenous communities 
will be taken into account in the design, and execution of subprojects including 
technical options, cost sharing and willingness to work in micro enterprises and 
maintenance. Indigenous people as key beneficiaries must be taken as well into 
account in participatory monitoring and evaluation of subprojects. 
(e) Implementing institutions have a full understanding that religious sites and cultural 
property must be respected. 
(f)  Implementing institutions and/or consultants hired by these institutions will take into 
account the indigenous peoples characteristics
—as identified in the social assessment 
to be carried out as part of the process of elaboration of the PMDTs—in all steps of 
the subproject cycle including definition of territory, subproject’s design (technical 
options), execution, and evaluation, seeking their participation.  
Page  7
(g) Implementing institutions and/or consultants hired by these institutions must ensure 
that all personnel possess the needed communication and cultural skills for carrying 
out the PMDTS and subprojects on a culturally appropriated methodology.  
(h) Indigenous social forms of organization and leaders in each relevant territory will be 
taken into account in the design and implementation of subprojects. 
In addition to the actions specified in the definition of territories, definition of their 
respective plans and identification and implementation of subprojects the actions listed 
below will be taken in project implementation.  The budget costs indicated after each 
action will be financed under the project, and represent preliminary estimations to be 
defined with precision by the SUBDERE upon the definition of the respective terms of 
reference. 
·
SUBDERE will carry out a consultation process to ensure that all implementing 
institutions and coordinating agencies such as CONADI are properly informed and 
are aware of project scope, objectives and components. This activity is part of 
Component 3 and would be carried out during the first six months of project 
execution. Budget: US$ 15.000. Responsible: SUBDERE 
·
In the context of the elaboration and validation of PMDTs, the Regional Management 
Units, with guidance from the SUBDERE, will develop and implement dissemination 
campaigns, as part of the pertinent participatory processes, to seek and obtain the 
views of indigenous peoples.  These campaigns will take into account illiteracy 
levels, ethnic and cultural issues, and a variety of communication means. This activity 
is part of Component 3 and would be developed during the first six months of project 
execution. Budget: US$ 25.000. Responsible: SUBDERE. 
·
Training workshops and seminars to strengthen the skills and capacities of project 
regional managers to take into account social, cultural and ethnic issues in the 
elaboration of Territorial Development Framework Plans (PMDTs). This activity is 
part of Component 3 and would take place during the first two months of execution in 
each of the regions where the Project would be executed.  Budget: US$ 35.000. 
Responsible: SUBDERE. 
·
For those territories with presence of indigenous peoples, complementing the social 
assessment that is part of the process of elaboration of PMDTs, preparation of a 
specific file of a representative sample of beneficiaries’ households specifying ethnic 
group and gender of household head. This file must include basic information such as 
number of members, age and gender, economic activity, identification of 
subproject(s), implementing institution(s), predisposition to cooperate in kind, 
financially or as labor force, predisposition to participate in a micro enterprise or 
committee in charge of maintenance of civil works built by subprojects. This activity 
is part of Component 3 and would be developed as the PMDTs are elaborated. 
Budget: US$ 35.000. Responsible: Regional Management Units. 
Page  8
·
Training workshops and seminars to strengthen the understanding of implementing 
institutions about the participatory approach, including the social, cultural and ethnic 
issues needed to design and execute culturally appropriate subprojects. This activity is 
part of the Component 3 and would be carried out during the two years of project 
execution.  Budget: US$ 40.000. Responsible: SUBDERE (in coordination with 
implementation technical units). 
·
Set in place a Monitoring and Evaluation system that will process beneficiaries’ 
information collected in the files. The objective is to measure the social impact of 
subprojects at mid-term and project conclusion. Budget: US$ 50.000. Responsible: 
Regional Management Units (under the supervision of SUBDERE). 
·
Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation system aimed at evaluating process, impacts 
and results of : (a) explanation of procedures, (b) accomplishments of procedures and 
rules, (c) quality of subprojects, (d) quality of training, (e) participation process of 
institutional and population actors. This activity is part of Component 3 and would be 
executed all over the four years of Project execution period. Budget: US$ 50.000. 
Responsible: Units of Regional Implementations (under the supervision of 
SUBDERE). 
 
