Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7269-CH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7269-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 (a) 
“Beneficiary” means any individuals, family, group of families, 
community, or Municipality located in a rural area, or an association comprising rural 
Municipalities, which benefits from a PMDT or Subproject pursuant to the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual and, in respect of ICT Subprojects, any school, health 
center or other public service facility; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Beneficiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through an Implementation Technical Unit, and each Beneficiary 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the Beneficiary Agreement; 
(c) “CNE” 
means 
Corporación Nacional de Energía
,
the Borrower’s agency 
in charge of energy development established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree Law 
2224 published in the Official 
Gazette
 on June 8, 1978; 
(d) “CONADI” 
means 
Corporación Nacional de Desarrollo Indígena
,
the 
Borrower’s agency in charge of indigenous peoples development established pursuant to 
Title VI of the Borrower’s Law 19.253 published in the Official 
Gazette
 on October 5, 
1993; 
(e) 
“CONADI Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through the Regional Government, and CONADI (ratified by 
MIDEPLAN) pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
CONADI Agreement; 
(f) 
“Electricity Subproject” means a set of activities or investments covered 
by Part B. 1 (c) of the Project which is eligible for financing in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(g) 
“Eligible Region” means any of the Borrower’s regions of Coquimbo, 
Maule, Bio Bio, Araucanía and Los Lagos and any other region as may be proposed by 
the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank; 
(h) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework for the 
management of environmental aspects of the Project set forth in a letter from SUBDERE 
to the Bank dated November 18, 2004; 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“ICT” means Information and Communications Technology 
Infrastructure; 
(k) 
“ICT Subproject” means a set of activities or investments covered by 
Part B. 1 (d) of the Project which is eligible for financing in accordance with the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“Implementation Technical Unit” means MOPTT, CNE or other 
governmental agency, a Municipality, a legally established company, a cooperative or a 
community-based organization which meets the criteria of the Operational Manual to 
carry out a Subproject; 
(m) 
“IPDP” means the indigenous peoples plan set forth in a letter from 
SUBDERE to the Bank dated November 18, 2004; 
(n) “MIDEPLAN” 
means 
Ministerio de Planificación y Cooperación
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Cooperation; 
 (o) 
“MOPTT” 
means 
Ministerio de Obras Públicas, de Transportes y de 
Telecomunicaciones
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Transport and 
Telecommunications; 
 (p) 
“Municipality” means any of the municipalities referred to in the 
Borrower’s Municipalities Organic Law No. 18.695 published in the Official 
Gazette
 on 
March 31, 1988 as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(q) 
“National Directorate” means the Directorate referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) (A) of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“National PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (i) (B) of this Agreement; 
(s) “Official 
Gazette
”
means the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial
;
(t) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
(u) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 18, 2004, covering the initial 12 month period of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“Regional Council” or “CORE” means the council referred to in Chapter 
III of the Borrower’s Organic Law for Regional Governments No. 19.175 published in 
the Official 
Gazette
 on
March 20, 1993; 
(x) 
“Regional Government” means the government of an Eligible Region as 
referred to in Title II of the Borrower’s Organic Law for Regional Governments No. 
19.175 published in the Official Gazette on March 20, 1993; 
 
(y) 
“Regional PCU” means any of the Project coordination units referred to 
in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy 
framework set forth in a letter from SUBDERE to the Bank dated November 18, 2004; 
(aa) 
“Road Sector Subproject” means a set of activities or investments 
covered by Part B. 1 (a) of the Project which is eligible for financing in accordance with 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(cc) “SUBDERE” 
means 
Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional y 
Administrativo,
 the Borrower’s Subsecretariat for Regional Development within its 
Ministry of the Interior; 
(dd) 
“SUBDERE/Eligible Region Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through SUBDERE, and each Regional Government 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules to the SUBDERE Eligible Region Agreement; 
(ee) 
“Subprojects” means collectively Road Sector Subprojects, Water and 
Sanitation Subprojects, Electricity Subprojects, and ICT Subprojects; 
(ff) 
“Subproject Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, through the Regional Government, and each 
Implementation Technical Unit pursuant to Section 3.01(d) (i) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subproject Implementation Agreement; 
(gg) 
“Territorial Development Framework Plan” or “PMDT” means a 
framework plan to support the development of a Territory within an Eligible Region 
Page  6
-
5
-
which: (i) integrates rural infrastructure and productive investments; (ii) is prepared by a 
Regional Government following the participatory procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and (iii) is favorable endorsed by the  Regional Council based on the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 (hh) 
“Territory” means a geographic area within an Eligible Region selected 
based on the development priorities and potential of such area and following the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) 
“Water and Sanitation Subproject” means a set of activities or 
investments covered by Part B. 1 (b) of the Project which is eligible for financing in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million two 
hundred and sixty thousand Dollars ($50,260,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, services and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank (or a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment). Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall
 be
considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. The Subsecretary for SUBDERE and any person or persons whom 
he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through SUBDERE and the Regional 
Governments, with the assistance of the Implementation Technical Units, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, 
technical, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
before commencing implementation of the Project establish and 
thereafter maintain at the national level:  
(A) 
a national directorate: 
(I) 
comprising SUBDERE, MIDEPLAN, MOPTT,  
and the Borrower’s Ministries of Economy, 
Agriculture, and Finance (through its Budget 
Directorate); and  
Page  9
-
8
-
(II) 
with powers and responsibilities which shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
powers to decide on policies 
and strategies as needed to meet the Project’s 
objectives, to facilitate inter-institutional 
agreements or arrangements between relevant 
governmental institutions as needed for the 
implementation of the Project; to provide 
institutional support to the Regional 
Governments as they may require it; and to 
facilitate the allocation of budgetary resources 
for Territories by the relevant agencies of the 
Borrower; and 
(B) 
a Project coordination unit; and 
(ii) 
before commencing implementation of the Project in any of the 
Eligible Regions, establish through the Regional Governments in 
coordination with SUBDERE and thereafter maintain, a Project 
coordination unit for said Eligible Region, 
the National PCU and the Regional PCUs with duties and responsibilities 
as set forth in the Operational Manual and staffed with personnel with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
 (c) 
The Borrower shall, through SUBDERE, before commencing the 
implementation of Parts A and B of the Project, enter into an agreement with the 
respective Regional Government, under terms and conditions substantially similar to 
those of the model form contained in the Operational Manual, such agreement to provide 
for:  
(i) 
the transfer to such Regional Government of the funds required 
to finance the preparation and monitoring of PMDTs and 
Subprojects;   
(ii) 
the obligation of such Regional Government to follow the 
requirements of this Agreement and the Operational Manual in 
respect of such PMDTs and Subprojects; and 
(iii) 
the commitment of such Regional Government to arrange for the 
implementation and financing of the productive investments of 
the PMDT. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
The Borrower shall, through the Regional Government, before 
commencing implementation of any Subproject, enter into an agreement, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the model form contained in the Operational 
Manual, with: 
(i) 
the respective Implementation Technical Unit to provide for, 
inter alia
:
(A) the Regional Government’s obligation to make 
available to the Implementation Technical Unit the proceeds of 
the Loan required for implementation of the Subproject; (B) the 
Implementation Technical Unit’s obligation to carry out the 
Subproject following the requirements of this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual, including any actions required from such 
unit in the implementation of the IPDP, the Resettlement Policy 
Framework and the Environmental Management Framework; 
and 
(ii) 
the respective Beneficiary to set forth the Beneficiary’s 
obligations for the operation and maintenance, as the case may 
be, of the Subproject. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall, through the Regional Government before 
commencing implementation of any PMDT or Subproject in Eligible Regions with 
indigenous populations, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with CONADI, 
ratified by MIDEPLAN, to provide for, 
inter alia
,
CONADI’s obligation to: (i) assist in 
the implementation of the IPDP; and (ii) facilitate the processing and granting of
 
any land 
and water use rights as may be needed for implementation of Subprojects. 
(f) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each of the SUBDERE/Eligible Region Agreements, the Subproject Implementation 
Agreements and the Beneficiary Agreements, and the CONADI Agreement, in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any 
SUBDERE/Eligible Region Agreements, Subproject Implementation Agreements, or 
Beneficiary Agreements or the CONADI Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2005, establish and 
commence operating a procurement management system in SUBDERE satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, financial and environmental requirements thereof); 
(b) 
the criteria for the approval, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of 
PMDTs and Subprojects including the technical, social and economic criteria approved by 
MIDEPLAN for evaluation of such Subprojects; 
(c) 
the criteria for eligibility of Territories, PMDTs, Subprojects and 
Beneficiaries; 
(d) 
model agreements for implementation of PMDTs and Subprojects with: 
(i) Regional Governments; (ii) Implementation Technical Units; and (iii) Beneficiaries; 
and 
(e) 
the IPDP, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the Environmental 
Management Framework, the procedures to safeguard cultural property and the 
Performance Indicators. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall
 
through SUBDERE: 
 
(a) 
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
Page  12
-
11
-
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
(i)  
to review with the Bank, within no more than two months after 
each such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section; and 
(ii) 
thereafter, to take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank's views on the matter. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.03 (e) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall through SUBDERE: 
(a) 
(i) 
prior to the implementation of a Subproject in which the 
Resettlement Policy Framework applies, furnish to the Bank for 
its prior approval, the resettlement plan prepared in accordance 
with such Framework; and 
(ii) 
thereafter: (A) enter into the inter-institutional agreements that 
may be necessary; and (B) carry out such resettlement plan in 
accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
carry out the IPDP in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall, not later than a date two years after the 
Effective Date: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, the methodology 
developed under Part C.4 (a) of the Project; and 
(b) 
thereafter test and apply such methodology in the evaluation of 
Subprojects, as appropriate. 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  13
-
12
-
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through SUBDERE, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through SUBDERE: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
through SUBDERE: 
Page  14
-
13
-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) ena
ble the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year, referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
,
through 
SUBDERE,
 prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
Page  15
-
14
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any Implementation Technical Unit 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the respective Subproject 
Implementation Agreement or CONADI shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the CONADI Agreement. 
(b)  
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, it is understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
expenditures in respect of the concerned Subproject. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
SUBDERE has adopted the Operational Manual; 
(b) 
the Borrower has issued a decree, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, establishing the National Directorate; and 
(c) 
SUBDERE has established the National PCU. 
Section 6.02. The date June 16, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
15
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Teatinos 120 
 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile:  (56-2) 698-8903 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  17
-
16
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Santiago, Chile, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
By /s/ Nicolas Eyzaguirre Guzmán 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
 Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean  
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By:  
/s/ Gianni Lambertini López 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Noemí Rojas Llanos 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ José Manuel Insulza Salinas 
Minister of the Interior 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) Subprojects: 
 
(a)  works and goods 
31,760,000 
50% 
 
(b) 
consultants’ services 
7,240,000 
70% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services (other 
) 
70% 
 
than for Subprojects) and Training: 
) 
 
)
(a)  for Part A of the Project 
2,625,000) 
 
)
(b)  for Parts B.2 and B.3 
1,825,000) 
 
of
the Project 
) 
 
)
(c)  for Part C of the Project 
3,122,000) 
 
(3)  Goods other than for Subprojects 
250,000 
70% 
 
(4)  Incremental Operating Costs 
308,000 
70% 
 
(5)  Front-end fee 
251,300 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
0 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
2,878,700
TOTAL 50,260,000
Page  19
-
18
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means communication, office 
supply, and local travel costs directly related to the performance of the Project activities 
by the National PCU and the Regional PCUs which would not have been incurred absent 
the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the training activities under Parts B 
and C of the Project, including local travel costs, per diem of trainers, trainees, facilitators 
and stakeholders, and training materials. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
2004; and 
(b)  
payments made for expenditures for Part A and B of the Project in 
respect of an Eligible Region unless the respective: (i) SUBDERE/Eligible Region 
Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto; and (ii) the Regional PCU has 
been established. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) 
goods and consultants’ services (other than for Subprojects) in respect of 
which prior review of contracts is not required pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
Subprojects, in respect of which prior review of contracts is not required 
pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
training and incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the effective and productive use of 
sustainable infrastructure services by poor rural communities in Territories of the Eligible 
Regions. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Participatory Territorial Planning
Preparation, monitoring and evaluation of Territorial Development Framework 
Plans in Eligible Regions including, 
inter alia
,
the carrying out of: (a) socio-economic 
and environmental diagnostic studies of the Eligible Region and Territory; and (b) 
consultations with Beneficiaries, Municipalities and other stakeholders. 
Part B
:
Infrastructure Service Delivery
1. 
Carrying out of feasibility studies and provision of rural infrastructure services in 
transport, water and sanitation, electricity and ICT as needed under the 
PMDT
s
for:  
 
(a) 
upgrading of existing secondary rural roads, paths, bridges and foot 
bridges as needed to improve transportation accessibility to and from the Territories 
(Road Sector Subproject); 
 
(b) 
rehabilitation and construction of piped water systems, point source 
water improvements, on-site sanitation and sewers with appropriate treatment processes 
(Water Supply and Sanitation Subproject); 
 
(c) 
expansion or upgrade of grid-based electricity supply facilities and 
installation or upgrade of least-cost renewable energy or conventional energy systems in 
remote areas, for productive and other use (Electricity Subproject); and 
 
(d) 
enhancement of the connectivity of the Territories to the 
telecommunications access network (ICT Subproject). 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
Establishment and strengthening of a local service providers program to operate, 
maintain and administer such services, including: 
 
(a) 
assisting micro-enterprises in their constitution, putting in place contract 
arrangement and payment systems, and providing on-the-job management training to 
staff of micro-enterprises; 
(b) 
carrying out, supervising and monitoring pilot programs of road 
maintenance by micro-enterprises including a dissemination campaign among 
Municipalities to sensitize them about the benefits of the micro-enterprise maintenance 
program; 
(c) 
assisting water and sanitation providers in the improvement of their 
management structures at the community level, analysis of tariff structures and hygiene 
and water conservation practices dissemination; and 
(d) 
assisting electricity and ICT service providers to set up business models 
to operate the customer interface of the service. 
3. T
raining and dissemination workshops for Municipalities’ staff to strengthen 
their capacity in infrastructure service provision, operation and maintenance, and 
monitoring. 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to deliver infrastructure services based on 
a
territorial approach including: 
1. 
(a) 
strengthening the capacity of SUBDERE and the Eligible Regions 
through the establishment of the National PCU and the Regional PCUs, and the training 
of their staff; and 
(b) 
training of Implementation Technical Units and other agencies involved 
in territorial development. 
2. 
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, including the collection of 
baseline data in SUBDERE. 
3. 
Information dissemination, learning and communications campaigns to 
systematize good practices and build a foundation for expanding the territorial 
Page  22
-
21
-
development approach (including PMDTs and Subprojects) to other regions of the 
country. 
4. 
Carrying out of studies to improve the Borrower’s policy and institutional 
framework for territorial development and management at the regional level including: 
 
(a) 
development of a new methodology for the technical, social and 
economic evaluation of investments (including Subprojects) based on a territorial 
approach, as well as development of streamlined procedures for approving simple and 
low-cost investments in small communities; 
 
(b) 
identification of new approaches in the water and sanitation sector for 
inter alia
:
(i) the provision of services to rural dispersed populations; (ii) improved cost 
recovery; (iii) introduction of lower cost technologies; and (iv) legal recognition of 
community-based water and sanitation service providers; and 
 
(c) 
development of a rural transport policy including: (i) enhancements of 
incentives for transport service providers in isolated areas; (ii) identification of road 
safety issues in the rural (secondary) network and strategies to address them; and (iii) 
definition of a medium-term strategy for the articulation of responsibilities at the local 
level in the management of the road networks within their jurisdictions. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
June 15, 2010 
25 % 
 
December 15, 2010 
   25 % 
 
June 15, 2011 
25 % 
 
December 15, 2011 
   25 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other
than Consultants’ Services)
A. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding using 
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, including the following provisions:  
1. 
All bid-related documents shall be submitted together with the bid, and bidders 
shall not be required to submit any bid related documents in advance of the deadline for 
submission of bids. 
2. 
All bids received on or before the deadline for bid submission shall be admitted 
for evaluation at the bid opening ceremony. 
3. 
The evaluation process shall be confidential and, after the public bid opening, 
information relating to the bids, their examination and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with 
this process until the publication of contract award, except for the results of the post-
qualification process, which should precede the opening of the second bid envelope. 
Page  26
-
25
-
4. 
Unit price contracts for works construction shall be priced on the basis of unit 
prices quoted by bidders after correction of computation errors, and maintaining the total 
bid price and changing unit prices in accordance to official cost estimate
s
(“compensatory 
pricing”) is not acceptable. 
5. 
Foreign contractors shall be allowed to bid and such contractors shall not be 
required to: (a) register as a condition for biding; or (b) have a local representative to bid. 
Foreign contractors shall, however, register before contract signature. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $45,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Subprojects 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent per Subproject may be procured on the basis of 
community participation in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
proposals received from a short-list of qualified consultants and no open bidding shall be 
carried out. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and Section V of this Schedule. 
Page  27
-
26
-
2.  
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks required for the preparation of 
PMDTs and Subprojects in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph of 
3.10 of the Consultants Guidelines for Single Source Selection, and estimated to cost not 
more than $20,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured from non-governmental organizations and legally established communities in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more; 
(b) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or 
more; 
(c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000
 
or more; 
(d) 
the first three contracts for goods and for works procured, irrespective of 
contract value, pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of this 
Schedule; 
(e) 
the first three contracts for consultants services provided by firms, 
irrespective of value, and procured pursuant to the provisions of  Section III, Part A and 
B.1 of this Schedule; and 
(f) 
each contract procured pursuant to Section II, Part B.2 of this Schedule.  
In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
Page  28
-
27
-
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be subject to Prior Review by 
the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $5,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  30
-
29
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  31
-
30
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
