Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1147 
Project Name 
Chile Infrastructure for Territorial Development 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (35%);Roads 
and highways (30%);General information and communications 
sector (25%);General energy sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P076807 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of Chile, Ministry of Finance 
Teatinos 120 
Chile 
Tel: (56) 2 473-2517   
mpv@dipres.cl  
SUBDERE 
Julio Ruiz, Jefe Division Desarrollo Reg 
Zenteno 234 
Chile 
Tel: 562 636 3625 
 
julio.ruiz@subdere.cl 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 12, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 18, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 14, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Over the past decade, the Chilean government has made impressive strides in economic growth, 
poverty reduction and increasing access of the poor to public services, including in rural areas. 
Infrastructure services are essential to ensure all Chileans have sufficient opportunities for 
achieving basic standards of living, generating income and rising out of poverty.  Despite the 
highly urbanized nature of the country, 2 million Chileans reside in rural areas, of which 500,000 
live in poverty and many lack basic services. 
 
The Chilean government has made a significant commitment to expanding rural infrastructure 
services as a means to address poverty and income inequality in the rural space.  This has taken a 
variety of forms: the creation of rural infrastructure programs and expertise within technical 
ministries, the establishment of specialized funding streams, and applying versatility to the 
selection of service delivery options.  The sectoral agencies have gathered the human and 
financial resources necessary for planning, evaluating and implementing rural infrastructure 
Page  2
projects of high standardized quality.  Over the past five years, the government has invested 
approximately one billion dollars in rural potable water, electricity, roads, and public telephones, 
with the majority designated for roads.  Government’s focus on rural infrastructure has increased 
the pace of service expansion over the past decade, allowing Chile to achieve high rural 
infrastructure coverage rates:  86% in electricity and over 90% in water supply provision for 
concentrated rural populations, in addition to constructing 6,093 new public telephone centers 
covering 2.2 million people, 25,000 individual rural telephone lines and an extensive rural road 
network.   
 
Chile now faces the challenge of continuing coverage expansion into primarily dispersed rural 
populations while maximizing the sustainability and productive and social impact of existing 
infrastructure investments.  The needs are large and the remaining unserved populations are the 
most difficult to reach.  Currently, 77,118 rural households lack electricity, 680,000 households 
in dispersed rural areas are without potable water service, and many more lack access to basic 
sanitation facilities, all-weather roads, and a working phone or internet service.
 
Household 
studies conducted in two regions showed that communities in poor rural municipalities identified 
roads, sanitation, and potable water services as their primary needs.     
 
The design of an improved multi-sectoral program to address the challenge of reaching the 
unserved rural population must build on the strengths of the existing service delivery models, but 
also address some limitations of the current single-sector, target-driven service delivery 
mechanisms in several areas, specifically: 
 
·
Inefficiencies in the way services are planned and financed
,
due
to centralized 
decision-making based on sectoral funding allocations and an extremely long project 
preparation and approval process 
·
Unrealized development impact 
due to the lack of coordination across sectors and  
investments that do not always respond to community and municipal priorities or to a 
local economic development strategy 
·
Overly rigid social and economic evaluation 
methodologies that do not allow for 
innovative multi-sectoral project designs and lack the flexibility to adapt to realities of 
dispersed populations and small settlements 
·
Inappropriate technical standards
 resulting in services that are expensive to maintain 
and an inability to reach the dispersed populations with more cost-effective solutions  
·
Focus on coverage expansion without ensuring quality and sustainability of existing 
services 
by strengthening the capacity of local management bodies (such as water 
committees, SMEs, etc), increasing cost recovery and improving the efficiency of rural 
road maintenance.
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objective  is to increase the effective and productive use of sustainable 
infrastructure services by poor rural communities in selected territories of the regions of 
Coquimbo, Maule, BíoBío, Araucania, and Los Lagos.  The infrastructure services include water 
supply, sanitation, roads,  Information  Communications Infrastructure Technology (ICT) and 
Page  3
electricity. As an intermediate institutional objective,  the project will strengthen the capacity of 
participating agencies to implement territorially-based, demand-responsive and multi-sectoral 
approach to  rural infrastructure as a contribution to local economic, social and environmental 
sustainability. The learning and results of the project will provide a basis for implementing a 
longer-term institutional reform on how rural infrastructure services are planned, financed and 
delivered in Chile. 
 
Project outcomes will be measured by the increased use of sustainable and quality services by 
the rural population and their contribution to economic and productive activities (see Annex 3 for 
indicators). The institutional outcomes will  be measured by the mainstreaming of the territorial, 
demand-responsive and multi-sectoral approach to rural infrastructure within government 
programs, namely: (a) new methodologies for integrated economic and social evaluation of 
multi-sectoral projects implemented by MIDEPLAN; (b) more effective, decentralized service 
delivery models and appropriate technical solutions adopted by relevant sectoral agencies to 
reach unserved and dispersed population; and (c) multi-sectoral territorial-based planning and 
service delivery model replicated in other non-project territories and regions. 
 
The 2002 CAS set three broad goals: (a) sustaining economic growth and social progress, (b) 
heightening inclusion, especially of rural populations and vulnerable groups, and (c) 
modernizing the state as an underpinning of the two previous objectives. To achieve these goals, 
the CAS incorporates a project on rural infrastructure following the completion of the sector 
work. The proposed project aims to improve livelihoods of rural communities by i) developing 
more appropriate strategies for efficiently extending services for those rural households without 
access to one or more infrastructure services, and ii) improving the efficiency, sustainability and 
developmental impact of the infrastructure services already provided.  The project will also 
support reforms of institutional processes to improve government capacity to attend the needs  of 
the rural population and vulnerable groups in a more effective manner. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Government is very interested in finding new approaches to rural infrastructure service delivery, 
and started working with the Bank in 2003 on the implementation of an ESW to identify areas 
where existing strategies could be improved (the results of ESW are summarized in Annex 1).  In 
particular, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has delineated an action plan to transition away from 
the centralized sectoral-driven approaches to investment decision-making.  During the past few 
years, it has progressively increased the amount of fiscal transfers to regional governments, 
particularly via the 
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
 (FNDR) which is managed by 
Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional
 (SUBDERE) of the Ministry of the Interior, to allow 
regional governments (GORE) prioritize investments within each sectoral allocation, especially 
in the rural infrastructure sectors (water, roads and electricity).  MOF and SUBDERE would like 
to further advance regional government discretionality in the allocation of resources across 
sectors, and particularly in the infrastructure sectors which are the domain of FNDR.. At the 
same time, MOF would like to ensure continued efficiency in resource expenditures on rural 
infrastructure while increasing their impact on improving the economic development potential of 
the rural poor. 
 
Page  4
In this context, the Government of Chile sees the Bank as a source of strategic advice in 
designing new approaches to rural infrastructure and territorial development, based on its 
international experience and analytical work.   At the same time, as government looks for more 
appropriate institutional arrangements for planning and delivering rural infrastructure services, 
the Bank serves as a more neutral third party to help bring together a large number of actors at 
the national, regional and local levels to increase cross-sectoral coordination and jointly develop 
a
new way to provide rural infrastru
cture services within a territorial approach.  The Bank’s 
provision of $50M of funding enables government to introduce a new a multi-sectoral budgetary 
allocation within FNDR specifically targeted to infrastructure service improvements for the rural 
poor. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project will include the following three components: 
 
1. 
Participatory Territorial Planning (US$9.7 million)
:
this component will assist local 
stakeholders and regional government agencies to: (a) prepare in prioritized rural 
territories in the 5 project regions comprehensive development plans, (b) identify 
demands for improved infrastructure services and prepare sub-project proposals to submit 
for financing under Component 2, and (c) monitor progress with plan implementation. 
2. 
Infrastructure Service Delivery (US$75.4 million)
:
this component will support: (a) 
rehabilitation of rural roads and construction, rehabilitation and expansion of rural water, 
sanitation, electricity and ICT infrastructure, and (b) establishment and strengthening of 
local service providers to operate, maintain and administer the services to achieve quality 
and sustainability. 
3. 
Institutional Strengthening (US$4.9)
:
this component will support: (a) project 
coordination units at national and regional levels, (b) implementation of studies and 
capacity building to strengthen policies and institutions in areas of territorial planning and 
rural infrastructure service delivery, and (c) project monitoring, evaluation and learning 
as a contribution to national level expansion of the program. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 40 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
50 
 Total 
90 
 
6. Implementation 
 
At the national level, 
the overall responsibility for project implementation and coordination will 
rest with SUBDERE, through the Management and Development Unit (UGD), within the 
Dirección de Desarrollo Regional
 
(DDR).  Regional governments will be in charge of the 
execution of the rural infrastructure investment plans, using the existing legal and fiduciary 
framework of the FNDR. The FNDR was established by Decree 573/74, by the Government of 
Page  5
Chile to decentralize public investment at regional level, and works under the overall supervision 
of  SUBDERE (see box below).  
 
The SUBDERE, through the UGD, will be the guarantor of compliance with the requirements 
and procedures established in the Loan Agreement and the Project Operational Manual, and as 
such will be responsible for overseeing project implementation.  The SUBDERE, also through 
the UGD, will be responsible for monitoring the achievement of the project development 
objectives and performance indicators and in charge of providing technical assistance
—directly 
or through the contracting of specialized consultants—to the entities at the regional and local 
levels. SUBDERE will be directly responsible for implementing Component 3 of the project. A 
national level Project Steering Committee comprising representatives of MOPTT, MOF, 
MIDEPLAN, and Chile Emprende will provide oversight of project implementation.  MOUs will 
also be signed with other key national institutions involved in the operational implementation of 
the  project, including SUBTEL, DV and DOH of MOPTT, CNE and CONADI. 
 
Within each region
,
a
Unidad de Gerenciamiento Regional (UGR) will be put in place, under 
the supervision of the Regional 
Intendentes
 and in coordination with the relevant units in the 
regional governments (such as the Chief of Staff of the 
Intendente 
or
the SERPLAC).  The 
SUBDERE will sign an Implementation Agreement (“convenio de trabajo”) with each of the 
Regional 
Intendentes
 (executive heads of the regional governments and chairs of the regional 
councils, as regulated by Law No. 19175 of January 2003), laying down the administrative and 
fiduciary responsibilities, including those related to social and environmental safeguards, as 
specified in the Project Operational Manual, and  reporting requirements.   The UGR will 
implement Component 1 of the project in close coordination with UGD, through government 
staff and consultants for the development of the Territorial Development Plans and investment 
program. As is usual practice in Chile, the Regional Government will also oversee 
implementation of Component 2, through Execution Agreements (“Convenios Mandatos”) 
signed with the qualified Technical Executing Units, as described below. 
 
Box.  The Fund for Regional Development (FNDR) 
 
The FNDR is the principal instrument of the Government of Chile for channeling central funds to the regions 
and was designed as a territorial compensation fund.  Its objectiv
e
is to favor the relatively less developed 
regions by providing the means to finance social and economic infrastructure in order to achieve harmonious and 
equitable development across the country.  FNDR has been in operation since 1976, and starting in 19
85, the 
government’s own financing has been supplemented by a series of Inter-
American Development Bank (IADB) 
loans.  Funds are allocated between regions following a formula that includes institutional complexity of the 
Regional Government, size of servic
es offered, volume of investments, and other criteria.  FNDR establishes 
clear procedures for the allocation of funds across sectors and programs, eligibility criteria for project selection 
and the methodology for distributing the resources across the regi
ons. The nation’s annual budget law clearly 
establishes the purposes and regional distribution of each FNDR budgetary allocation.  For the year 2005, the  
total provisions under the FNDR budget line amount to about US$325 million.  The funds for the projec
t
will be 
included as a specific provision within the FNDR. 
 
Page  6
The project will be implemented following a territorial approach to the identification of needs 
and the execution of the selected infrastructure investments and the subsequent operation and 
maintenance. The project will work through existing institutions, including regional 
governments, deconcentrated sectoral agencies and municipalities, which will be adequately 
supported as required by project managers and technical specialists.  At the same time, a strong  
coordination effort will be made through the formal establishment of directorates or commissions 
where the representatives of the key entities at the national, regional or local levels will be 
represented.  Annex 6 details the institutional framework and responsibilities. 
 
In each region, the project cycle is initiated by the identification of territories that respond to a 
minimum set of socio-economic criteria, with the consensus of the Regional Council (CORE).  
In these territories, the participatory planning process leads to the design of territorial 
development plans which will identify the priority rural infrastructure investments, to be funded 
by the project, as well as other activities, such as productive initiatives, that would be 
implemented by other government programs, or with private financing (e.g., productive 
initiatives).  The plans and infrastructure investments would be validated by the CORE.  All 
infrastructure projects would also need to be approved by MIDEPLAN, based on the socio-
economic appraisal performed by its regional units (SERPLACs).   
 
Technical Executing Units (“
Unidades Técnicas
”
or
UTs) made up of staff of the sectoral 
agencies (MOPTT,  CNE, municipalities, legally recognized community-based groups with 
demonstrated technical and financial capacity, etc)  at the regional and local levels will be 
responsible for preparation, procurement and supervision of project investments within their 
respective areas of  expertise.  The Execution Agreements signed between Regional 
Intendentes
 
and the UTs will specify responsibilities for carrying out the implementation of the specific 
infrastructure components in a particular region.  These UTs will be responsible for the 
implementation of their respective projects, including for example,  preparing bidding 
documents, carrying out the bidding processes,  contract award and signing, payments to 
contractors, and supervising of the contracted works and services).  The Execution Agreements 
will also specify the scope of the project, the allocation of budgetary resources, procurement 
guidelines and procedures, supervisory and reporting requirements, and transfer mechanisms of 
completed works for their operation and management
1
,
and specify that the procedures of the 
Project Operational Manual would be followed. 
 
The selection of UTs will be carried out by the Regional Government in consultation with the 
UGR, based on the specific technical needs of each set of projects identified in a PDT.  In 
addition, with the principle of devolving responsibilities to the local level, the UGRs, in 
agreement with the UGD, and with resources from the project, will build up the capacity of more 
locally-based UTs, such as  municipalities or local committees, so that they can be engaged in 
project implementation activities. 
 
The UGRs and the COREs, supported by the existing Regional Control Units (deconcentrated 
units of SUBDERE that are responsible for collecting and reviewing documentation on 
1
This type of agreements have been used by the SUBDERE for the execution of FNDR-supported projects and 
other regional initiatives (those previously financed by central budgetary allocation subject to regional decisions
—
the so-called ISAR).  The most recent example is the IDB-financed Rural Electrification Project. 
Page  7
expenditures under the FNDR), will conduct the oversight of the UTs.  The UGRs will be staffed 
with a limited number of personnel, including as necessary by the size of the project portfolio in 
the region, with specialists in financial and administrative management. 
 
Schedule of project implementation
.
The project  will require  a long-start up period to fully 
develop in each territory, in a participatory and coordinated manner, including: (a) the 
elaboration of Territorial Development Plans; (b) sub-project identification, design, approval and 
procurement with due consideration to safeguards; and (c) agreements with the Technical 
Executing Units. The implementation schedule and disbursement profile reflect this expected 
longer startup period. 
 
Partnership arrangements
.
The preparation of the project has taken place in coordination and 
partnership with a broad spectrum of Chilean entities involved in activities in rural areas.  This 
partnership will be preserved during project implementation through the establishment of a 
Project Steering Committee for overall strategic direction and project oversight (this is a 
condition for effectiveness).  Regional and territorial coordinating bodies will also be put in 
place for carrying out specific project activities.  This scheme will allow to achieve the necessary 
synchronization with complementary government programs (such as ChileSolidario, FOSIS, 
Origenes, Emprende Chile) and the investment projects of the sectoral institutions (MOPTT, 
SUBTEL and CNE).  In this respect, specific Memoranda-of-Understanding will be signed 
between the SUBDERE and each of the sectoral entities and the MIDEPLAN. 
 
Within the SUBDERE, the project will coordinate its activities with those being undertaken 
under the World Bank-financed Municipal Development Project (PROFIM), currently in its 
seco
nd
phase.  The exchange of information and strategies between PROFIM’s national and  
regional offices and those of the project is paramount towards increasing the involvement of 
municipalities in the management of rural infrastructure services, and their development in 
general.  Furthermore, the municipal Communal Development Plans (PLADECOs) and  
Strengthening Development Plans, will provide an important input into the Territorial 
Development Plans. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability is a cornerstone of the overall project strategy to ensure the quality, continuity and 
reliability of the infrastructure services that will be put in place. 
 
In the rural water sector, despite a highly effective strategy, which puts in place well organized 
community-based service providers that have demonstrated excellent technical and 
administrative capacity to operate their services, the ESW identified several gaps in their 
capacity to be fully sustainable without continued government subsidy.  The largest threat comes 
from the established financial policy of the sector, whereby government fully subsidizes the 
investment cost and only requires the tariff to cover basic operational and maintenance costs, 
with no reserves for depreciation or major repairs.  At the same time, many of the water 
committees lack legal recognition and are therefore unable to access credit to self-finance system 
rehabilitation and expansion.  These issues have been brought to the attention of government, 
Page  8
and Component 3 of the project includes resources for funding additional studies and policy 
work to encourage government to redress the situation.  
 
Sustainability of the rural roads that will be rehabilitated in the project will be enhanced by 
following a three-pronged approach: (a) Direccion de Vialidad (DV)  will be in charge of the 
design, implementation and maintenance of the roads within their network, (b) DV will also 
strengthen the capacity of municipalities in project territories to take on increasing 
responsibilities for managing of the networks within their jurisdiction, and (c) community-based 
micro-enterprises [specific modality to be confirmed at appraisal] will be formed and trained so 
that they can be hired by DV and municipalities to undertake maintenance activities.  Component 
3
includes additional resources to delineate a rural transport policy and help identify strategies 
and actions in the provision of transport services and attend road safety issues on the rural 
(secondary) networks. 
 
In terms of the networked and well-regulated services such as grid electricity and ICI, the active 
role of the private sector as service providers coupled with an adequate regulatory framework, 
investment subsidy and tariff structure, provide the technical, administrative and financial means 
for the services to be sustainable as long as consumer pay their tariffs.   On the other hand, the 
project will need to support government put in place local management structures to operate the 
non-networked decentralized electricity services, and the management of Infocenters, building 
on the successful experiences in Chile of the rural water sector. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The study on Rural Infrastructure Services allowed to analyze the strengths and limitations of the 
different delivery mechanisms implemented in Chile. All these lessons (characteristics successful 
programs, limited investment coordination among sectors, focus on coverage rather than long 
terms sustainability, need to adapt technical standards to reach dispersed populations, etc.) were 
incorporated in the project design resulting in a cross-sectoral approach that aims to increase 
impact and add value to existing single-sector investments by providing a full package of 
demand-appropriate infrastructure services required to undertake meaningful productive 
activities in rural areas.  At the same time, such an approach could bring about greater efficiency 
and sustainability of services to the remote and unserved populations by offering opportunities 
for single and cross-sectoral service bundling.  The project seeks to build on successful existing 
experiences and at the same time introduce some innovations in the timing and sequencing of 
project evaluation and funding allocation processes to move from a sectoral to a territorial 
approach within an established budgetary framework. The approach would also identify 
complementary programs to assist communities to make more efficient and productive use of 
their infrastructure services, by associating infrastructure investments with other productivity 
enhancement programs. 
 
Key lessons from those other experiences include: 
 
Page  9
·
Need to incorporate 
participatory approaches
 in the design and implementation of rural 
infrastructure projects as a means to enhance ownership, tailor the investment to local 
demands, and improve the sustainability of investments. 
·
There are a 
range of technical options
 for improving infrastructure services in rural 
areas, each with its associated cost and service delivery options. In Chile, investments 
have often relied on technical standards that are more appropriate to larger populations 
and have led to facilities that are more expensive to maintain and operate..  There is a 
need to introduce more appropriate and lower cost technologies, especially to serve the 
large number of rural dispersed communities, and assess their willingness to pay and 
preferences for operating the services as a means to enhance sustainability. 
·
Mechanisms that promote 
local involvement in the operation and management of 
infrastructure services
 tend to lead to better management and maintenance practices.  
The experiences of other countries in the operation of rural infrastructure services has 
been brought to the preparation of this operation.  For instance, the successful 
experiences of the road maintenance micro-enterprises in countries such as Colombia, 
Peru and Bolivia has been taken into account and with the adaptations required by the 
specificities of the Chilean rural areas. Chile has already developed successful 
community-managed approaches to rural water supplies, and through this project, these 
could be expanded to the off-grid electricity and operation of Infocenters. 
·
Sectoral policies and approaches to rural infrastructure, while necessary, are not 
sufficient to achieve the impacts necessary to increase living conditions in rural areas.  
Territorial approaches
 can provide a means to improve coordination and 
complementarity of investments, and also build linkages to productive activities. This 
approach, however, requires a shift in the manner the investments are identified and 
evaluated. Studies in other countries, such as Peru, show that when the services are made 
available simultaneously in the same rural area, the impact is greater that the sum of the 
individual effects when the services are provided individually in separate areas. . 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
In addition to the ESW (Report 29037-CL), the following background papers are on file
2
:
·
“Pobreza e Infraestructura Rural en Chile” 
by Mauricio de La Barra and ESW team
 
·
“Análisis de los Servicios de Infraestructura Rural: Región del Maule” 
by
Universidad 
de Talca 
 
·
“Infraestructura Rural IX Región de la Araucanía” 
by Instituto de Desarrollo Local y 
Regional - Universidad de la Frontera (IDER-UFRO) 
 
·
“Estudio de Sustentabilidad de los Servicios de Agua Potable Rural en Chile” 
by 
Alfonso Alvestegui and ESW team  
 
·
“Desafíos de la Electrificación Rural en Chile” 
by Francisco Covarrubias, Ignacio 
Irarrázaval and Ramón Galáz 
 
·
“Análisis de la Política de Subsidios al Transporte Rural y de la Accidentabilidad en los 
Caminos Rurales” 
by Eduardo Núñez 
 
·
“Identificación de Componentes y Acciones en la Gestión y el Mantenimiento de 
Caminos Comunales Primarios y Secundarios y Vecinales” 
by Hernán Otoniel Fernández 
 
·
Consultoría para el Fortalecimiento del Modelo de Gestión Comunitaria, 
by Deuman 
Consultancy Services 
 
·
Estrategia de Diseño Institucional para la Operación del Programa de Inversión en 
Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial,
 by IGT Invertec 
 
·
Metología Participativa en la Identificación de Deficits de Infraestructura y Desarrollo 
Productivo a nivel Sub-Territorial,
 by GIA Consultancy Services 
 
·
Estrategia Participativa con Pertinencia Étnica y Enfoque de Genero para el Proyecto 
de Infraestructura Rural,
 by GIA Consultancy Services 
 
·
Consultoría para el Diseño de las Guías Ambientales del Proyecto de Infraestructura 
para el Desarrollo Territorial,
 by Golder Associates 
 
·
Manual Operativo del Proyecto de Infraestructura Rural,
 by Jorge Barrientos 
2
This papers are also digitally available from 
http://lnweb18.worldbank.org/External/lac/lac.nsf/Sectors/Energy&Mining/9413D772F0470C8F85256D80005A9C
10?OpenDocument
Page  11
·
Consultoria para el Diseño de un Programa de Conservación de Red Rural (Comunal 
Secundaria) con Participación Comunitaria,
 by Jaime Carramiñana 
 
Previous World Bank studies, including 
“Chile: Poverty and Income Distribution in a High 
Growth Economy” 
(2001), 
 “
Estudio de equidad y eficencia - Sistema de Tansferencias del 
Govierno Nacional a los Municipios
”
(2003), and 
“Chile: New Economy Study”
 (2003) provided 
additional background information for the present document. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Aurelio Menendez/Jennifer Sara 
Title: Sr Transport. Econ./Lead Infrastructure Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-0009/(202) 473-3091 
Fax:  (202) 676-9594 
Email: 
Amenendez@worldbank.org
jsara@worldbank.org
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
