                                 Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                     Report No: 00002342




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72690)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.26 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                      FOR THE

      INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                     June 18, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Country Management Unit – LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 29, 2012)

                    Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (CLP)
                         CLP 1.00 = US$ 0.00195
                          US$ 1.00 = CLP 512.77

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 to December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CONADI     Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo Indígena (National Corporation
           for Indigenous Development)
DIPRES     Dirección de Presupuestos – Ministerio de Hacienda (Budget
            Directorate – Ministry of Finance)
DOH        Dirección de Obras Hidraúlicas (Directorate of Hydraulic Works)
EMF        Environmental Management Framework
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
FNDR       Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (National Fund for Regional
            Development)
GOC        Government of Chile
GORE       Gobiernos Regionales (Regional Governments)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ICT        Information Communication Technology
KPI        Key Performance Indicators
IPDF       Indigenous Peoples Development Framework
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIDEPLAN   Ministerio de Planificación y Cooperación (former Ministry of
            Planning and Cooperation – currently Ministry for Social Development,
            Ministerio de Desarrollo Social)
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOP        Ministry of Public Works
MOPTT      Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PIRDT      Proyecto de Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial
            (Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project)
PMDT       Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial (Territorial Development
           Framework Plan)
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
QAT        Quality Assurance Team

                                                                               ii
SERPLAC   Secretaría Regional Ministerial de Planificación (Regional Secretariat
          of MIDEPLAN)
SIL       Single Investment Loan
SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
SUBDERE   Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional (Subsecretariat of Regional
           Development)
SUBTEL    Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones (Subsecretariat of
           Telecommunications)
TU        Technical Unit
UDG       Management Development Unit




                     Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                   Country Director: Susan Goldmark
                    Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
               Project Team Leader: Veronica I. Raffo
                  ICR Team Leader: Veronica I. Raffo




                                                                                   iii
                       REPUBLIC OF CHILE
      INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information…………………………………………………………….... v
    B. Key Dates……………………………………………………………………… v
    C. Ratings Summary……………………………………………………………… v
    D. Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………....... vi
    E. Bank Staff……………………………………………………………………… vi
    F. Results Framework Analysis…………………………………………………. vii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs……………………………………… xii
    H. Restructuring ………………………………………………………………… xii
    I. Disbursement Graph…………………………………………………………. xiii
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design…………………………… 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes…………………………… 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes………………………………………………………….13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome…………………………………...18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance…………………………………18
  6. Lessons Learned…………………………………………………………………...20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ……………………………………………….22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis………………………………………….31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes……...43
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results………………………………………………...45
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results………………………………..48
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR…………….51
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders……………..65
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents……………………………………………..66




                                                                                                                    iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Infrastructure for
Country:                Chile                   Project Name:            Territorial
                                                                         Development Project

Project ID:             P076807                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                         IBRD-7269-
ICR Date:                                       ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                        USD 50.26M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 50.26M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 50.26M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional (SUBDERE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A


B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/21/2003     Effectiveness:                            08/16/2005
                                                                               02/12/2009
Appraisal:            10/20/2004     Restructuring(s)
                                                                               09/04/2009
Approval:             12/16/2004     Mid-term Review:                          10/30/2007
                                     Closing:              06/30/2010          12/31/2011


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                                                               v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                                  9                      4
General public administration sector                                  12                  10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 30                  10
Roads and Highway                                                     27                  76
Telecommunications                                                    22                      0


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               14                  14
Infrastructure services for private sector development                14                  14
Participation and civic engagement                                    14                  14
Rural policies and institutions                                       29                  29
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                  29


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan Tuluy                          David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Susan Goldmark                       Axel von Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Veronica I. Raffo                    Aurelio Menendez/Jennifer Sara
ICR Team Leader:           Veronica I. Raffo
ICR Primary Author:        Mirtha Pokorny




                                                                                                  vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective is to increase the effective and productive use of
sustainable infrastructure services by poor rural communities in selected territories of the
regions of Coquimbo, Maule, Bio-Bio, Araucanía, and Los Lagos (or any other region as
may be proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank).




                                                                                         vii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                         Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
  Indicator      Baseline Value
                                           approval         Target        Completion or
                                          documents)        Values        Target Years
             Increase in use of quality and sustainable services in selected territories, as
 Indicator 1
                                             measured by:
                                           Water and
                                      Sanitation: 90% of
                                           population
                        0%              benefiting from
                                        project PMDTs
                                         with sustained
                                           access and                   100%
                                        effective use of
                                       services provided
                                         by the project

                                           Roads: 20% of
    Value
                                          increased use of
quantitative or                                                   na
                          0%             transport services               increased used of
  qualitative
                                               along                      transport services
                                         rehabilitation road
                                           infrastructure

                                           Electrification:
                                         90% of population                 Not applicable. See
                                           benefiting from                 comments below
                                           project PMDTs
                          0%              increased use of
                                            electricity for
                                              economic
                                              activities
Date achieved        11/19/2004              06/30/2010
              Water: Rural water supply subprojects were designed taking into consideration
              sustainability. In a survey carried out in November 2011 (comprising 12 water
              subprojects financed under the program), it was reported that all of them were
              working, and that the systems were generating enough resources to cover
              operational and maintenance costs. Based on this, the achievement of this
              output was 111% of the original target.
 Comments
              Roads: In a survey carried out in November 2011 (comprising 22 subprojects
  (incl. %
              financed under the program) beneficiaries reported an increase in the
achievement)
              availability of transport services, but it was not possible to quantify such
              increase (only one case reported that the availability of transport before the
              project was once per day, and after the project it was once per hour).
              Beneficiaries also reported that they could increase their production because of
              the improved condition of the road (e.g. production of berries, very sensitive to


                                                                                               viii
              damage during transportation). This increase in production is also linked to an
                  increase in usage of public transport.
                  Electricity: This indicator is not consistent with the project’s objective of
                  supporting productive activities. In any community only a minority of the
                  population uses electricity for economic activities. In the case of this project,
                  electricity benefitted activities such as small fisheries, olive oil production
                  among others (a total of 12 electricity subprojects were reported to have been
                  financed under the program).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

Component 1
                                         Original Target               Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                           Values (from                 Achieved at
  Indicator            Baseline Value                      Revised
                                             approval                  Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                            documents)                 Target Years
 Indicator 1                      Number of PMDTs approved by the CORE
    Value
quantitative or                5                     25                na                31
  qualitative
Date achieved        11/19/2004            06/30/2010             na          12/31/2011
              31 PMDTs have already been approved by COREs: 18 correspond to the first
  Comments generation and 13 to the second one. In addition, 14 PMDTs are under
   (incl. %   preparation (third generation of PMDTs) for a total of 45 PMDTs. The
 achievement) achievement of this output was 124% of the original target. If ongoing PMDTs
              were included, the achievement of the output increases to 180%.




                                                                                                      ix
Component 2
                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
  Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                     Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                     Target Years
 Indicator 2         Annual percentage level of compliance with targets set in PMDTs
                                    Water and Sanitation: 95%                   100%
                                    of connections constructed
                                      with service providers
                                   having revenues greater than
                                       cost of operation and
                                           maintenance

                                         Roads: 95% of roads
    Value
                                      rehabilitated with sustained                    100%
quantitative or          na                                            na
                                         routine maintenance
  qualitative
                                        mechanisms established

                                            Electricity: 95% of
                                        electrification constructed
                                          with service providers
                                       having revenues greater than
                                         the cost of operation and
                                                maintenance                            100%
Date achieved        11/19/2004               06/30/2010               na           12/31/2011
                Water and Electricity: In the case of revenue generating sectors (i.e. water and
                electricity) tariffs are set with the help of the private suppliers to fully recover
                marginal costs. In the case of water, affordability is ensured by local subsidies
                going directly to the users.
  Comments
                Roads: Roads under the jurisdiction of Vialidad are routinely maintained.
   (incl. %
                Vialidad also agreed to incorporate in their maintenance programs all roads
achievement)
                improved under the PIRDT (even if not formally under their responsibilities, i.e
                “no enroladas? )
                For the three indicators proposed, the achievement of the targets was 105% of
                the original values.
                Percentage of PMDT subprojects managed by local organizations or entities,
 Indicator 3
                          with adequate consideration of indigenous and gender issues
    Value
quantitative or              na                      80%              na               100%
  qualitative
Date achieved           11/19/2004               06/30/2010           na            12/31/2011
                Social considerations are fully embedded in project design, including both
                indigenous and gender issues. The consultation process is inclusive; the National
  Comments Corporation for Indigenous Development considered the methodology as the
   (incl. %     most appropriate to represent indigenous’ points of view.
achievement) There are 7 subprojects identified were all beneficiaries are indigenous.
                Women are highly represented in the Water Management Committees: 40% of
                elected members are women.


                                                                                                  x
Component 3
                                                Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                        Achieved at
  Indicator             Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                    approval                       Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                  documents)                        Target Years
                     MIDEPLAN evaluation methodology expanded to include assessment of
 Indicator 4
                     subprojects within the territorial development advanced by the Project
    Value                                         Methodology
                                                                                 Methodology tested
quantitative or        No methodology          tested and applied         na
                                                                                     and applied
  qualitative                                    as appropriate
Date achieved             11/19/2004               06/30/2010             na         12/31/2011
                  The methodology was formally approved by MIDEPLAN in March 2010. An
  Comments        updated version was prepared in August 2010. The formulation of the
   (incl. %       methodology has been recognized as one of the main Project contributions. The
 achievement)     methodology is now used for other than the PIRDT program (e.g. it contributed
                  to prioritize investments for reconstruction works after the 2010 earthquake).
 Indicator 5                      New approaches adopted in water and sanitation
                                       (a)      Appropriate
                                       technologies for water for
                                       dispersed populations and rural
                                       sanitation, (b) improved
                                       financial policy to increase
                                       cost recovery, (c) legal
    Value                                                                             Implemented
                                       framework that would allow
quantitative or            na                                                 na     (see comments
  qualitative                          providers higher management                      for details)
                                       and revenue raising capacity,
                                       and (d) assignment of
                                       institutional responsibilities for
                                       rural sanitation and water
                                       dispersed population

Date achieved     11/19/2004              06/30/2010                 na        12/31/2011
              The project contributed in the elaboration of a comprehensive rural water
  Comments manual, which is currently being used by SUBDERE, DOH and municipalities
   (incl. %   for the selection and implementation of appropriate low cost technologies. This
 achievement) work provided substantial inputs to drafting a Rural Water Law, which is
              currently under review by Congress.




                                                                                                 xi
                  Number of quality PMDTs implemented outside project regions using non
  Indicator 6         project resources or % of regional public investments program
                    implemented with a territorial approach, outside Project financing
    Value
                                                   3
quantitative or              0                                       na
                                                  25%
  qualitative
Date achieved         11/19/2004              06/30/2010         na           12/31/2011
              New Regions by the end of 2012: By the end of 2012 three new regions were
              incorporated into the program: Los Rios, Aysen and Libertador. Los Rios and
              Libertador have PMDTs, Aysen is beginning the process for new PMDTs. In
  Comments 2012 three additional regions were incorporated, and will begin with the
   (incl. %   preparation of its PMDTs.
 achievement) In terms of financing, the project was envisaged to have a total cost of
              US$90.26 million. Until December 2012, US$ 153.7 million were invested only
              in infrastructure subprojects (additional US$12.9 million have been invested in
              productive initiatives identified in the PMDTs).



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
        Date ISR
No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     04/22/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     11/21/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                          0.25
  3     06/23/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                          2.54
  4     12/13/2006    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         2.54
  5     04/13/2007    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         3.45
  6     07/20/2007    Moderately Unsatisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                   4.80
  7     12/18/2007    Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                    7.76
  8     03/20/2008     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                    7.76
  9     10/22/2008     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                   12.31
 10     05/21/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                         20.46
 11     11/10/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                         24.79
 12     05/15/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                         27.77
 13     02/18/2011       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                         43.27
 14     07/27/2011       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                         44.93
 15     01/13/2012       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                         50.26

H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Rating at     Amount
                   Board
                             Restructuring   Disbursed at
Restructuring     Approved                                     Reasons for Restructuring & Key
                                             Restructuring
   Date(s)          PDO                                                 Changes Made
                             DO        IP       in USD
                   Change
                                               millions
10/11/2007                                        6.33       Inclusion of Los Rios as Eligible


                                                                                                 xii
                              Region (Los Rios was created in March
                              2007, as the result of the division of the
                              region of Los Lagos).
02/12/2009                    Measures taken in order to accelerate
                              project implementation: (i) retroactively
                              increase financing percentages for
                              works and consulting services; (ii)
                              expand the definition of eligible sub-
             S    S   14.49   projects; (iii) allow financing of pre-
                              investment studies for productive sub-
                              projects; (iv) allow for financing
                              operation and maintenance activities;
                              and (v) modify the role of national
                              coordination body for the project
09/04/2009                    Extension of the project closing date by
             S    S   24.79   18 months from June 2010 to December
                              2011
07/20/2010                    Reallocation of proceeds from category
                              1.b (Consultant’s services) to 1.a
                              (works and goods). Following OP 13.25
             S    S   31.90   this does not constitute a reallocation
                              since it was due to cost savings (the
                              GoC financed consultant services with
                              national funds).
04/14/2011                    Inclusion of “del Libertador Bernardo
                              O’Higgins? and “Aysen del General
             HS   S   43.27
                              Carlos Obanez del Campo? Regions as
                              Eligible Regions.




                                                                   xiii
xiv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

By the time of project appraisal Chile had already at least two decades of impressive economic
growth and poverty reduction. While important strides had been made to increase access of the
poor to public services, including in rural areas, there were still about 500,000 of the estimated
2,000,000 rural populations that lived in poverty and lacked basic services. The Chilean
government had made a significant commitment to expanding rural infrastructure services as a
means to address poverty and income inequality in the rural space. This took a variety of forms:
the creation of rural infrastructure programs and expertise within technical ministries, the
establishment of specialized funding streams, and applying versatility to the selection of service
delivery options. The sector agencies gathered the human and financial resources necessary for
planning, evaluating and implementing rural standard infrastructure subprojects of high quality.
During the 1998-2003 period, the government invested approximately one billion dollars in
rural water supply, electricity, roads, and public telephones, with the majority designated for
roads. This focus on rural infrastructure allowed Chile to achieve high rural infrastructure
coverage rates. 1

The challenge was then to continue coverage expansion into the highly dispersed and hard to
reach rural populations while maximizing the sustainability and productive and social impact of
existing infrastructure investments. To find new approaches to the delivery of rural
infrastructure services the Government of Chile (GOC) started working with the Bank in 2003
on the preparation of a comprehensive economic and sector work (ESW) that became the
project underpinning. These studies identified the major constraints of the existing system of
which the main one was the use of social and economic evaluation methodologies that
prevented the approval of project designs able to adapt to the realities of dispersed populations
and small settlements. Other major constraints were: (i) inefficiencies due to centralized
decision-making based on individual sector programs and funding allocations; (ii) a long project
preparation and approval process; (iii) unrealized development impact due to lack of
coordination across sectors; (iv) investments that did not always responded to community and
municipal priorities or to a local economic development strategy; (v) inappropriate technical
standards that were expensive to maintain and an inability to reach the dispersed populations
with more cost-effective solutions; (vi) excessive focus on coverage expansion without ensuring
quality and sustainability of existing services by strengthening the capacity of local
management bodies (such as water committees, SMEs, etc); and (vii) need for increasing cost
recovery and improving the efficiency of rural road maintenance. The studies provided the
project with an instrument to develop, test and expand solutions for improving the access,
quality, sustainability and impact of rural infrastructures within a territorial approach to local
economic and social development. So the dialogue with the GOC evolved from a possible loan
to partially finance specific sector investments to the design of an operation supporting a new
system for the delivery of rural infrastructure that would empower regional and territorial
entities with a decisive role in the planning and allocation of resources.

Key to the new approach was the GOC decision to transition away from the centralized sector-
driven approaches to investment decision-making. During the years before project preparation,
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) was progressively increasing the amount of fiscal transfers to
regional governments, particularly via the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR)
which is managed by Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional (SUBDERE) of the Ministry of the

1 At the time of appraisal, coverage rates were estimated at 86% in electricity and over 90% in water supply for
concentrated rural populations. In addition the government constructed 6,093 new public telephone centers covering
2.2 million people, 25,000 individual rural telephone lines and an extensive rural road network.
Interior, to allow regional governments (GOREs) prioritize investments within each sector
allocation, especially in the rural infrastructure sectors. MOF and SUBDERE were keen to
further advance regional government’s discretion in the allocation of resources across sectors,
and particularly in the infrastructure sectors that were the domain of FNDR. At the same time,
MOF wanted to ensure continued efficiency in resource expenditures on rural infrastructure
while increasing their impact on improving the economic development potential of the rural
poor. On this basis, the GOC requested Bank support in preparing and financing a multi-sector
rural infrastructure program (Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project - Proyecto de
Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial - PIRDT).

The PIRDT was expected to address both cross-sector constraints as well as the limitations of
the existing institutional and policy frameworks of the water, sanitation, transport, electricity
and ICT sectors as they relate to services in rural areas. The project rested on three basic
conceptual pillars: (i) decentralization accompanied by greater community representation,
participation, and accountability: (ii) a “spatial or territorial development? approach as reflected
in regional development plans (Territorial Development Framework Plans – Planes Marco de
Desarrollo Territorial - PMDTs) involving productive transformation of the region and
ensuring investments geared towards that end; and (iii) integration of different levels of
government and different sectors to ensure a holistic method for rural development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective as stated in the PAD was to increase the effective and
productive use of sustainable infrastructure services by poor rural communities in selected
territories of the regions of Coquimbo, Maule, Bio-Bio, Araucanía, and Los Lagos (or any other
region as may be proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank). The infrastructure
services include water supply, sanitation, roads, information communications infrastructure
technology (ICT) and electricity.

As an intermediate institutional objective, the project was also expected to strengthen the
capacity of participating agencies to implement territorially based, demand-responsive and
multi-sector approaches to rural infrastructure as a contribution to local economic, social and
environmental sustainability. The learning and results of the project was to provide a basis for
implementing a longer-term institutional reform on how rural infrastructure services are
planned, financed and delivered in Chile.

Project outcomes were to be measured by the increased use of sustainable and quality services
by the rural population and their contribution to economic and productive activities as spelled
out in Annex 3 of the PAD. The institutional outcomes were to be measured by the
mainstreaming of the territorial development approach to rural infrastructure within government
programs, specifically: (i) new methodology for integrated economic and social evaluation of
multi-sector projects implemented by MIDEPLAN; (ii) more effective, decentralized service
delivery models and appropriate technical solutions adopted by relevant sector agencies to reach
unserved and dispersed populations; and (iii) multi-sector territorial-based planning and service
delivery model replicated in other non-project territories and regions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The above development objectives and key indicators remained unchanged during the project
execution period. In 2009 the GOC found, as part of a project evaluation exercise, that the
original PDO and key indicators did not fully capture the spirit of the project and revised them




                                                                                                  2
to emphasize the income generating nature of the objective. 2 These changes, however, were not
formally incorporated in Bank documents, reflecting the Bank’s team emphasis to allocate the
limited supervision resources to address the implementation complexities of a difficult project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The proposed project was expected to benefit the inhabitants of the participating rural
communities by (i) better and more productive use of the infrastructure; and (ii) empowering
their members through increased participation in the decision making process.

Rural population in Chile approximates 2,000,000 inhabitants, of which 500,000 are located in
dispersed rural communities. The project has benefitted 320,000 inhabitants in poor dispersed
rural communities.

1.5 Original Components

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) listed the following project components:

(a) Participatory Territorial Planning (US$3.94 million): this component was to assist local
stakeholders and regional government agencies to: (i) prepare in prioritized rural territories in
the five eligible regions development framework plans (PMDTs); (ii) identify demands for
improved infrastructure services, and (iii) monitor progress with plan implementation.

(b) Infrastructure Service Delivery (US$80.29 million): this component was to support: (i)
feasibility and design studies of subproject proposals to submit for financing under this
component, (ii) rehabilitation of rural roads and construction, rehabilitation and expansion of
rural water, sanitation, electricity and ICT infrastructure, (iii) supervision of the mentioned
works, and (iv) studies and support for the establishment and strengthening of local service
providers to operate, maintain and administer the services to achieve quality and sustainability.

(c) Institutional Strengthening (US$5.52): this component was to support: (i) project
coordination units at national and regional levels, (ii) implementation of studies and capacity
building to strengthen policies and institutions in areas of territorial planning and rural
infrastructure service delivery (including those related to the application of social and
environmental safeguards), and (iii) project monitoring, evaluation and learning as a
contribution to national level expansion of the program.

1.6 Revised Components

In February 2009 the Loan Agreement was amended to (i) expand the definition of eligible
subprojects to include the financing of small port works; (ii) allow financing of pre-investment
studies for productive subprojects (something that would help communities access additional
funding, under other programs); and (iii) allow for financing operation and maintenance.

1.7 Other significant changes

In addition to the changes listed in 1.6 above, the February 2009 amendment included the
following changes: (i) retro-actively increase financing percentages for works and consulting
services; and (ii) modify the role of a national coordination body for the project. These measures
were seen as needed to accelerate overall project implementation and keep the project relevant
for Chile's evolving territorial development strategy. In addition, the amendment enabled the

2
  The GOC is defining the POD of the PIRDT as “to contribute to the development of the selected productive
territories through the effective and productive use of the rural infrastructure services? and identifies as the key
indicator “the percentage increase in production in the key areas identified in the PMDTs?.


                                                                                                                       3
loan to finance up to 100% of works and consultant services (originally 50% and 70%
respectively). These changes were expected to speed up subproject implementation and
disbursements. The Government agreed to finance the additional necessary
subprojects/consultancies to keep the same overall pari passu (44%).

A second amendment took place on September 2009 when the loan closing date was extended
from the original June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011.

Finally, in April 2011 the GOC and the Bank agreed to include for financing under the loan
projects in the regions Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins and Aysen del General Carlos Obañez
del Campo.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project quality at entry was satisfactory for the reasons described below.

The project was fully in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The background
analysis that supported the project design was sound as it was fully aligned with the main pillars
of the 2002 CAS that set three broad goals: (i) sustaining economic growth and social progress,
(ii) heightening inclusion, especially of rural populations and vulnerable groups, and (iii)
modernizing the state as a foundation of the two previous objectives. The CAS emphasized that
one of the building blocks for sustained economic growth and social progress was maintaining
and improving key rural infrastructure assets that facilitated regional development and the
inclusion of marginal rural areas in the market economy. Finally, the project supported the CAS
objective of modernizing the state to better achieve the inclusion of rural population and
vulnerable groups through: (i) efforts to strengthen the capacity of national and regional
agencies to implement the project; (ii) conducting policy and institutional reform studies; and
(iii) supporting a program for monitoring, evaluation and replication.

Lesson learned from other projects were incorporated. The project incorporated in its design
the lessons learned from both previous Bank-financed operations and the comprehensive ESW
carried out prior to project preparation, essentially related to:

    • Avoiding the main shortcomings related to lack of inter-sector coordination and
      sustainability identified by the ESW of the different delivery mechanisms implemented
      in Chile. The key lessons from this work (characteristics of successful programs, limited
      investment coordination among sectors, focus on coverage rather than long terms
      sustainability, need to adapt technical standards to reach dispersed populations, etc.) were
      incorporated in the project design.

    • Incorporating participatory approaches in the design and implementation of rural
      infrastructure projects as a means to enhance ownership, tailor the investment to local
      demands and needs, and improve the sustainability of investments.

    • Looking into a range of technical options for improving infrastructure services in rural
      areas, with the objective of introducing more appropriate and lower cost technologies,
      especially to serve the large number of rural dispersed communities, and assess their
      willingness to pay and preferences for operating the services as a means to enhance
      sustainability.

    • Acknowledging that territorial approaches can provide a mean to improve coordination
      and complementarity of investments, and also build linkages to productive activities.
      Project design incorporated the experience in other countries showing that when several


                                                                                                4
       infrastructure services are made available simultaneously in the same rural area, the
       impact is greater than the sum of the individual effects when the services are provided
       individually in separate areas.

Institutional and implementation arrangements were highly complex, multi-layered but
well defined. Most of the officials interviewed for the ICR acknowledged the quality and
effectiveness of the Project Operational Manual in delineating the myriad of steps necessary to
select PIRDT supported territories and subprojects. Community participation, approvals,
signing of working agreements, validations, just to mention a few, were required at one point or
another from community representatives, municipalities, local elected legislators, central
government appointed local authorities, representatives of the sector infrastructure agencies
both at the central and regional levels, MIDEPLAN and any other agency supporting productive
infrastructure and activities.

Project design was pragmatic, allowing for a meaningful size and scope for learning. It
recognized the difficulties of adopting a completely novel approach to infrastructure planning
which involved different levels of government, multiple sector agencies, community
participation, interface with other rural development program. Thus its main focus was on
learning and eventually replicating successful experiences. The possibility of a LIL, considered
at one time during project identification, was correctly rejected because of the constraints it
would have imposed on the size of the project and its learning possibilities.

A range of risks was identified during project preparation and appropriate mitigation
measures were considered. In particular, the possible limited capacity of the different levels of
government to deal with new participatory approaches to planning were mitigated though the
inclusion of legal instruments clearly specifying the roles and accountability of the different
agents, incentives to counterbalance possible resistance by local governments to switch to new
forms of planning and financing rural infrastructure, and flexibility to support through technical
assistance and consultants any possible weakness in institutional capacity.

The attention and documentation in regard to social issues in general, and social
safeguards specifically, was considered outstanding by the QAT 3. The specific regions to
which the project was targeted had about 42% of Chile’s Mapuche Indian population, according
to the 1992 census of adults. As noted in the Social Assessment carried out during project
preparation, the Mapuche and other indigenous groups are generally among Chile’s poorest and
most disadvantaged populations. Appropriately, an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) was
prepared 4 and the National Corporation for Indigenous Development (Corporación Nacional de
Desarrollo Indígena – CONADI) was consulted during project preparation. The PAD indicated
that SUBDERE would monitor the specific participation of women and indigenous groups in
the process of preparing regional development plans.

During preparation, the Government’s commitment and support to the project, at different levels
were very good.

The less than highly satisfactory rating is based on the considerations listed below:

    (i)       The PDO did not fully capture the strong emphasis of the project on supporting
              only existing productive activities and enhancing their potential for income
              generation. 5 The project key instrument, the PMDT, aimed to develop and

3
  Currently Safeguards Advisory Team (SAT).
4
  The IPP was prepared according the requirements of Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous People. The project
was appraised prior to the approval of OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples.
5
  During the preparation of the ICR both Chilean officials and Bank members presented this very specific and
focused view of the project objectives. In fact, a necessary criterion for the selection of a territory to be included
under the project was the existence of ongoing potentially viable economic activities.


                                                                                                                    5
              implement a “business plan? approach for ongoing rural activities requiring multi-
              sector infrastructure investments to increase their profitability. This concept does
              not clearly and/or explicitly appear in the PAD.
    (ii)       The less than explicit association of the PDO with income generating activities
              resulted in a strong consideration of the use of infrastructure as an output rather
              than an input while “the increase in annual production for the key priority areas
              identified would be tracked separately by SUBDERE as it involves a broader set of
              actions not under the control of the project.? The need for a stronger linkage
              between investments and income generation (or any other measure of wellbeing)
              was to be addressed later in the project as discussed in section 2.3 of this report.
    (iii)      Although recognizing and explicitly stating in the PAD that because of its
              characteristic project implementation needed a substantial lead time, the expected
              pace of execution and disbursements were unrealistic and resulted in an early
              downgrading of the performance rating which in turn at one point jeopardized
              Chile’s continuous support of the project.

QAG did not evaluate nor rate the Quality at Entry of the project.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation experienced two distinct stages; with the project emerging from a period
of unsatisfactory ratings because of serious execution problems to a remarkable turnaround that
progressively transformed the project into a highly successful and effective instrument for
streamlining the territorial development approach.

Early implementation period (2005-2008): The project became effective in August 2005 once
the main effectiveness condition of creating the Project Steering Committee6 was complied
with. The committee was to ensure high-level coordination for a project that challenged the
existing sector approach to infrastructure development and thus shifted responsibilities from the
sector agencies to the Management and Development Unit (UDG) of SUBDERE. One of the
main linchpins of the project was the Territorial Development Framework Plans (PMDTs).
Adoption of these plans were the culmination of a process that started with the identification of
territories responding to a minimum set of socio-economic criteria, with the consensus of the
Regional Council (CORE). Subsequently, participatory planning led to the design of a PMDT
that identified the priority rural infrastructure investments -the subprojects- to be funded by the
project, as well as other activities such as productive initiatives, that would be implemented by
other government programs, or with private financing (e.g., productive initiatives). The plans
and infrastructure investments had to be validated by the CORE. All infrastructure subprojects
also needed to be approved by MIDEPLAN, based on the socio-economic appraisal performed
by its regional units (SERPLACs).

Almost from the start of the implementation period Bank supervisions reported execution
problems and about a year after effectiveness the project was rated unsatisfactory. The many
reasons for the delays were identified and widely discussed by both the Bank and the Chilean
institutions. The latter (i.e. MoF, Contraloría, MIDEPLAN) thoroughly scrutinized and
evaluated the project during this period and contributed to find and implement remedial actions.
A summary list of the main problems affecting project performance were:

    • Lack of coordination at the highest level to ensure the smooth inter-sector bundling
      of subprojects. National Directorate meetings, which initially were expected to be at the
      level of under-secretaries, never took place. A project that introduced a new paradigm

6
   The Project Steering Committee (Directorio Nacional) was to comprise high level representatives of the Ministry
of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications (MOPT), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), MIDEPLAN,
Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Economy and provide overall strategic directives for project implementation.


                                                                                                                   6
      moving individual sector decisions to a more “collegiate? process involving new
      stakeholders required a supra-institutional cohesion that did not take place as planned.
      Only in 2008, when the project started to regain its momentum, a technical committee
      was formed to provide the type of coordination originally expected from the Directorate.

    • SUBDERE’s lack of experience with project execution and project coordination.
      SUBDERE successfully went through the preparatory stages of conveying the merits of
      the territorial planning approach to the future beneficiaries in the regions and securing
      their early ownership and commitment to the project. However, once the project moved
      into the implementation stage poor project management and coordination skills became
      evident. These weaknesses were in time overcome through changes in personnel,
      incorporation of procurement experts and active Bank handholding.

    • Sectors agencies difficulties to change. Chile’s outstanding public sector management
      includes very strict and efficiently enforced rules and regulations that standardized the
      process of project selection and execution. The PIRDT program challenged and, to a
      certain extent undermined, the existing arrangements. Technical Units (TUs) at the
      regional level comprising representatives of the MOPTT or each sector, were in charge of
      implementing their respective subprojects. New procurement rules together with
      investment priorities that differed from those identified in the central sector agency
      programs and could not pass the strict economic evaluation filters of MIDEPLAN took
      time to be accepted by the relevant sector agencies. The latter were either resistant to
      change and/or were extremely cautious in making decisions against their long established
      modus operandi.

    • Inordinate lead-time to produce the initial PMDTs. The first PMDTs (which were to
      be known as the “first generation? or PMDT1) were a rather alien concept to the main
      regional stakeholders. Lack of clear terms of reference for their development and the
      rather uneven capabilities of the local consultants retained for their preparation
      contributed to the problem. The fact that the development and approval of an evaluation
      methodology able to quantify the combined economic merits of a bundle of subprojects
      was not in place at the time also delayed MIDEPLAN’s approval of the subprojects
      identified in the PMDTs.

Mid-Term Review and Ministry of Finance (DIPRES) Report: By the time of the mid-term
review (October 2007) project performance had been categorized as unsatisfactory for 10
months. Actual disbursements were only 20% of those planned at appraisal. Support at the
regional level was weakened and the project started to be seen by some regional officials as a
rigid and slow alternative to single sector opportunities. Some officials even thought that
cancellation was a better alternative than keeping a non-performing project in SUBDERE’s
portfolio.

It was clear that by then a combination of unrealistic expectations developed during the initial
“selling? of the territorial approach to the regions plus the severe delays in implementation had
substantially eroded the project attractiveness. A very thorough and critical review of the
PIRDT program by Dirección de Presupuesto (DIPRES, Budget Office within the Ministry of
Finance) confirmed this view. It found that the project was: (i) slow to implement; (ii)
complicated by multiple objectives; and (iii) too restrictive (both in terms of eligible
infrastructure subprojects and the non-inclusion of financing for productive activities). More
importantly, the report identified the flaws of the project’s logical framework, which eventually
resulted in launching an exercise to review the framework, identify relevant monitoring
indicators, and set up an impact evaluation study.

Throughout this initial period Bank supervision missions and SUBDERE proactively tried to
reverse the slow pace of implementation. This was supported by new managers in SUBDERE


                                                                                               7
that firmly believed in the merits of the project. As a result: (i) comprehensive and closely
monitored action plans were agreed to smooth out main constraints to finalize PMDTs; (ii)
workshops were launched to improve communication at the political and technical levels; (iii)
re-launching meetings were made when the unfulfilled expectations at the community level
started to erode the original enthusiasm for the project; and (iv) expert consultants were hired by
some regions to help in the preparation of the PMDTs and strengthen procurement capabilities.

Late implementation period (2009-2011). The concerted GOC-Bank’s efforts to improve the
project performance soon started to show visible results. The necessary time elapsed to
complete the first few plans, validate them through the different agencies, and contract works.
Results in some regions could be shown to others more skeptical about the project. Additional
circumstances that helped strengthen positive developments were: (i) the GoC’s commitment
towards decentralization and the decision of reforming SUBDERE to increase its role as a
coordinator of regional investments; (ii) the GoC strong pressure to public entities to accelerate
disbursements as part of a US$700 million macroeconomic stimulus package emphasizing
regional infrastructure; and (iii) Bank approval of financing pre PMDTs “obvious subprojects?,
that is, those with such an evident priority that could be included even when the PMDT was not
yet completed.

In the 12 months between late 2008 and 2009, the project disbursed almost as much as during
the previous three years of implementation, building on the pipeline of rural infrastructure
investments prioritized by the PMDTs. Execution accelerated even more, as a result of the loan
amendment that increased loan financing to 100% of the cost of works and services and
expanded the definition of works eligible under the project.7

By late 2009 it was clear that the project started to be positively perceived by national and
regional stakeholders and its outputs were starting to influence Chile's territorial development
policies. After years of uncertainties due to the initial implementation delays, the project
successfully rebuilt its credibility. The PIRDT by then was having a better execution record than
all other SUBDERE programs, largely due to the quality and quantity of the infrastructure
pipeline that was built through the territorial planning process. At the regional level, the
territorial development concept became progressively streamlined: some regions started the
preparation of new Territorial Development Plans.8 These PMDT2 are now fully accepted tools
for rural development in Chile.

A key element of the project turn-around was the completion and gradual formal adoption of the
new methodology for the economic evaluation of subprojects to be included in the PMDTs. A
basic tenet of the project was that the cost-benefit analysis used in Chile for the inclusion of an
investment in the budget were inadequate to capture the economic merits of many initiatives in
highly dispersed rural areas. Good subprojects were systematically ruled out by analysis based
on consumer surpluses rather than the more appropriate producer surpluses. More importantly,
individual project merits are increased when the benefits brought about by the synergies of
bundling investments in several sectors at the same time are quantified but these extra benefits
were not included.

Development of the new methodology capturing the concept of integrated territorial
development experienced the same delays than the rest of the project. The idea of bundling

7
  The list was expanded to include financing of small port works, pre-investment studies for productive subprojects,
and operation and maintenance.
8
  For instance, the region of Maule conducted an external evaluation that ranked the project's approach first among
three territorial planning methodologies. That same region adopted the project's approach as part of its own regional
development strategy. At the national level, the Project's Steering Committee met in order to discuss options to
generalize MIDEPLAN's new economic evaluation methodology for rural infrastructure investments.




                                                                                                                   8
subprojects, a concept that for many years was seen in MIDEPLAN as a possible sign of hiding
bad projects under good ones, was hard to adopt. A local consultant was finally retained in 2009
to develop the new methodology and the proposal was subjected to a thorough process of
consultations and revisions until it was fully accepted by MIDEPLAN in 2010. Its usefulness
was fully recognized when the government adopted it for the reconstruction process after the
earthquake of 2010.

                                             BOX 1: What is a Territory?

As in the case of other aspects of the project, the selection of a territory evolved with time as part of the development
of the different generations of PMDTs (See Box 2). Selection of the original territories was the result of ad-hoc
identifications carried out by the local legislatures with varying degrees of political considerations. As concepts
became better understood and the views of the communities acquired a heavier weight in the process, the ideas of
cultural identity, social cohesion, economic relationships, interactions and networks started to be weaved in the
definition.

For practical purposes the PIRDT territory is now defined in MIDEPLAN’s methodology for the evaluation of
PMDTs as “a space of public/private and community consensus and of decision making about investment priorities,
thus becoming an integral planning unit at the sub-regional level. In a territory several economic and social relations
take place that, thus, determine the flow of exchanges affecting their own population and that of other territories and
external entities. Within the interior of the territory we can identify the focused areas of investments or sub-territories
that correspond to concrete spaces where the program takes place, identifying the local demand, project ideas, and
investment allocations.? 9



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1. Design.

The PAD’s outline of M&E arrangements was fairly comprehensive. It envisaged:

(i) SUBDERE to implement an M&E system to:
   a. assess the gradual impacts of the implementation of the infrastructure components of the
      PMDTs on the communities in the selected territories and on the related productive
      activities;

    b. keep track of the achievement of the project performance indicators included in the
       Results Framework. These indicators would track final and intermediate project
       outcomes, while SUBDERE was to have a more elaborate M&E system to report on
       project results and processes.

(ii) During the preparation of each PMDT, coverage rates, quality and use of the
infrastructure services in the territory would be measured to establish a baseline of
information. Upon completion of subproject activities in that territory a new measurement of
the same data would be carried out to assess progress in increasing coverage rates, quality and
use of those services.

(iii) The Project was also to undertake an assessment of intermediate socio-economic
impact indicators related to the contribution of infrastructure services to productive activities
and the socio-economic wellbeing of participating families. Control cases would be included to
compare similar territories that were not subject to project interventions.

(iv) A participatory monitoring process was to be incorporated into the overall M&E system
to include a beneficiary assessment of adherence to project rules, progress and results of
implementation. It would track overall participation, but also that of indigenous peoples and

9
 MIDEPLAN’s integrated economic and social evaluation for multi-sector projects (Chile 2011), available at:
http://sni.ministeriodesarrollosocial.gob.cl/documentos/Sectores_2011/Pirdt/guia_pmdt2011.pdf


                                                                                                                         9
women. Household data sheets were to be completed in a representative sample of households
within benefiting territories to collect demographic and ethnic data, gender information,
infrastructure priorities, and willingness to pay for improved services and to participate in
implementing local service delivery systems.

2.3.2. Implementation

The planned M&E system was only marginally implemented. Readily available data such as
physical output, number of PMDTs completed, potential aggregated beneficiary population in a
given territory, etc. was routinely collected and reported. That was not the case of the more
complex (and more relevant) impact assessments. Both the Borrower and the Bank claim that
the continuous struggle to keep the project alive reduced the priority conferred to M&E. In
2006 there was a period in which the project M&E was rated unsatisfactory. But this was
mostly related to the delays in contracting a consultancy for “Project Management and
Monitoring? which was not directly related to the tracking of the key indicators. The monitoring
of subproject implementation by the TUs and compliance with the established procurement and
financial management was carried out by SUBDERE and scrupulously reviewed by the
Contraloría Nacional, Chile’s main auditing entity.


                           BOX 2: Territorial Development Framework Plan - PMDTs
                                     Main Characteristics and Evolution

First Generation (PMDT1)
      • Uneven quality among regions due to lack of clear TORs

    • Lack of an unifying evaluation methodology

    • Limited familiarity with the concept of an integrated territorial planning

    • Limited availability of qualified consultants for the preparation of the plans

    • Did not include a reliable and homogenous base line for future assessment

Second Generation (PMDT2)
    • Territories, subterritories and project selection and evaluation based on newly approved MIDEPLAN
      methodology

    • Include reliable and homogenous baselines

    • Benefitted from technical assistance to implementation units, detailed TORs and workshops with consultants
      preparing PMDTs

    • Brings early in the planning period the participation of key actors in the technical and/or financial support of
      economic activities

Third Generation (PMDT3)
     • Social capital and participatory processes are further strengthened by including the “nucleo gestor?, headed by
       community leaders, local producers and local political and technical authorities in charge of coordinating and
       leading the participatory planning and implementation of PMDTs

    • Methodology includes now a standardized questionnaire for baseline surveys, and information to carry out
      comprehensive IE studies, including control groups

    • Methodology is further improved to include iterative process to strengthen priorization of subprojects and
      exclude subprojects with low economic, financial and social rates of return



Late in the project implementation period, and as the government confirmed the PIRDT’s


                                                                                                                  10
importance as a full-fledged tool for the delivery of rural infrastructure, the interest in
evaluating its impact on productivity and rural incomes resumed. Project results for the initial
first generation PMDTs (or PMDT1) were inferred from simple community surveys since: (i)
they did not include baselines; and (ii) they were developed prior to the existence of the
approved methodology thus casting doubts on the quality of the selected subprojects in terms of
their productive impact (i.e. social rather than productive considerations in many cases may
have prevailed). Also, consultants have been retained to: (i) redefine the logical framework of
the PIRDT (emphasizing the income enhancing objectives for those involved in the existing and
potentially more productive economic activities); (ii) develop the relevant key indicators closely
linked to the actual economic activities; (iii) define the baseline for the PMDT2 (second
generation plans); and (iv) establish a control group of territories not involved in the PIRDT
with whom to compare the results (for PMDT2).

As a result, for the second generation of PMDTs, the definition of the baseline has been
completed (for both the sample and the control group) and the impact assessment will be carried
out in about two years time, once the civil works have been completed and their impact become
measurable. The GoC key definitions on the frequency of the assessments and the
dissemination of the results are still pending.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Procurement

Procurement issues were one of the main roadblocks hindering the early stages of project
implementation. A CPAR for Chile carried out prior to appraisal revealed that local legislation
differed from Bank rules in several aspects. These differences became part of the legal
documents agreed upon at negotiations, and were to be taken into account in the elaboration of
the national bidding documents for the project. This proved to be a difficult task in part because:
(i) notwithstanding the Bank’s preference for centralizing procurement in SUBDERE, the GOC
decided that decentralization efforts would be better served by carrying out procurement
through the regional TUs; (ii) TUs comprised the technical representative of each sector agency
(MOPTT’s Vialidad and DOH for roads and water, respectively) who were responsible for the
implementation of the subprojects in their sector but had no procurement experience with Bank
documents); (iii) sector technical staff in many regions were reluctant to contradict long
established procurement rules and risk the Contraloria’s sanctions; and (iv) SUBDERE had no
authority over the other Ministries to enforce international agreements. The high level project
Steering Committee, designed to coordinate and resolve these types of inter-agency issues,
never met.

Early in the project implementation period, a consultant was retained to harmonize the Bank’s
and MOPTTs bidding documents with the approval of the Contraloria. After a protracted
exercise that included the review of existing legislation supporting adherence to international
agreements a document was completed in October 2005. In mid 2006 MOPTT sent to its
regional representatives the order to use the new bidding documents. Training and hiring of
procurement experts helped to incorporate the new documents although there were still some
regions reluctant to change. Full acceptance of the Bank’s agreed documents with the consent
of Contraloria took place in a formal act in 2007, about 2 years after loan effectiveness.

2.4.2 Financial Management.

In terms of Financial Management arrangements, the project was characterized by a satisfactory
performance and a low risk. In particular, SUBDERE has maintained qualified staff and
adequate internal controls. As the project pre-financed expenditures, SUDBERE put in place a
mechanism to validate information from regional governments and interact permanently with
regional governments to assure expenditures eligibility. The project used the Integrated


                                                                                                11
Financial Management System SIGFE complemented by SUBDERE’s own system to produce
financial information. Interim un-audited reports (IFRs) have been sent on timely basis, except
for the IFR for the second semester 2011 which is overdue and it is expected to arrive before the
end of April 2012. Audit reports were by and large submitted on time, with unqualified audit
opinions and considered acceptable by the Bank. Although the project closing date was on
December 2011, the project continues executing final activities with local counterpart funds.
Therefore, it was agreed the last audit covers the period January 2011 to June 30, 2012. The
audit report is expected to arrive before December 2012.

2.4.3 Safeguards

Social Safeguards. The project triggered OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples (the project was
approved prior to the issuance of OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples) and OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. A Social Assessment and an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) were prepared to
comply with OD 4.20. During project supervision the Bank observed that the project delivered
significant benefits to communities of Indigenous Peoples in the regions of Araucanía, Maule
and Bío Bío and that negative social impacts were minor or nonexistent. Subprojects responded
to needs expressed by the community and facilitated productive activities. Community
participation in the planning and implementation of subprojects was a critical ingredient of their
success, particularly in the case of subprojects to provide rural water supply to indigenous
communities.

A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared to comply with OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. In practice, the project did not cause physical displacement (relocation of
people). Land for subprojects was acquired through voluntary transactions, except in the case of
a road rehabilitation subproject that required the expropriation of narrow strips of land adjacent
to the road. Expropriation became necessary in this subproject due to changes in its original
design. The expropriation was carried out by the Roads Department of the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP), which allocated funds for the compensation payments; however, some of the
payments had to be deposited in the courts because the expropriated owners did not have title to
the land affected. These persons are entitled to the payments as soon as they legalize their
tenure status.
Environmental Safeguards. Project preparation with respect to environmental assessment was
carried out in accordance with the World Bank operational policy 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. The project was correctly categorized as B given the scope and nature of planned
infrastructure subprojects which were rather simple in environmental terms and thus would
probably not require screening according to national regulations. A high quality Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) provided procedures to screen infrastructure subprojects and
mitigate potential impacts that went beyond national requirements. This procedure included: (i)
a preliminary environmental assessment, (ii) subproject categorization, (iii) selection of the
environmental assessment instrument, and (iv) implementation of a given environmental
assessment instrument. However, with regard to preparation of Planes Marco de Desarrollo
Territorial (PMDTs), the EMF prepared by the Borrower did not include information and
guidance for mainstreaming of environmental considerations into formulation of PMDTs.
Furthermore, the project’s Operations Manual did not incorporate the aforementioned procedure
nor the environmental guidelines. Even though the procedures agreed with the Bank during
project preparation were not implemented, SUBDERE followed the national environmental
requirements for infrastructure projects, and supervision missions did not detect any negative
environmental impacts.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The PIRDT has become a well-established mechanism for the delivery of sustainable
infrastructure to rural areas. The demand for PMDTs in new regions is exploding. In 2012 the
regions of Arica, Parinacota, Tarapaca and Magallanes are being incorporated to the program.


                                                                                               12
The inclusion of Antofagasta and Atacama is being planned for 2013 while Valparaiso and the
Metropolitan regions are programmed to join in 2014 (by then the program will have national
coverage). In addition, the allocation of resources in the 2012 budget for the continuation of
the PIRDT beyond the loan closing date for up to US$33 million, above 2011 budget levels,
attest to the attractiveness and developmental merits of the territorial approach and the very high
likelihood of its sustainability.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High overall relevance

The PIRDT objectives remain highly relevant to the country’s priorities of rural development
and decentralization. GOC is satisfied with achievements under PIRDT and its sustained
relevance, as proven by the continued expansion of the program and the commitment of the
former and present administrations to improving the quality of the PMDTs and their
implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective: Increase the effective and productive use of sustainable infrastructure services by
poor rural communities in selected territories of the regions of Coquimbo, Maule, BioBio,
Araucania, and Los Lagos (or any other region as may be proposed by the Borrower and
agreed to by the Bank).

This objective was achieved:

The project successfully achieved all the intermediate institutional targets leading to the GOC
full adoption of a novel territorial planning approach that is providing disperse populations with
productive infrastructure subprojects that would have not been approved or considered before.
The project has become the main vehicle of the Chilean Government to satisfy previously
unmet demand for rural infrastructure having a direct and tangible impact on rural incomes,
increasing the effective and productive use of infrastructure services by rural communities. In
particular, the PIRDT financed 250 subprojects (158 road subprojects, 65 water supply
subprojects, 7 sewage subprojects, 12 energy subprojects, 6 ICT subprojects and 2 port
subprojects) benefiting about 320,000 beneficiaries in participating, poor rural communities.
These outcomes include subprojects financed directly with loan proceeds, national counterpart,
SUBDERE’s funds (different from the project counterpart) and other sources 10 (the project
envisaged only the first two sources at project preparation). Investments in infrastructure
subprojects amounted to US$153.7 million: roads accounted for 75% of total investments, with
15% going to water, 5% to sewerage, 3% to energy, 1% for ICT and 1% to ports. Regarding the
nature of the funds, the loan contributed with 30% of total investments in infrastructure,
whereas counterpart funds accounted for 25%, SUBDERE’s funds (different from project
counterpart) represented 26% and others 19%.


           Figure 1: Number of Subprojects              Figure 2: Investments per Sector




10
     Mainly budget from sectoral ministries and FNDR.


                                                                                                13
                   Number of Projects                                  Total Investment (US$ Million)
 180                                                       140.0
                            158                                                         114.7
 160                                                       120.0
 140
                                                           100.0
 120
                                                            80.0
 100
  80    65                                                  60.0
  60
                                                            40.0
  40                                                               22.9
                                     12                     20.0              7.5
  20               7                         6      2                                            5.4     1.8   1.6
   0                                                         0.0
       Water   Sanitation   Roads   Energy   ICT   Ports           Water   Sanitation   Roads   Energy   ICT   Ports

SOURCE: SUBDERE and UGRs                                       SOURCE: SUBDERE and UGRs




                                                                                                                       14
Figure 3: Investments per Source                                       Figure 4: Investment per Sector and Source
                    Project Financing   (US$Million)
                                                                   Ports
50.0         45.9
45.0                                       40.6                       ICT
40.0                        38.1
35.0                                                                                                 Bank
                                                                  Energy
                                                        29.2
30.0                                                                                                 Counterpart
25.0                                                              Roads                              Other SUBDERE
20.0
                                                                                                     Other
15.0                                                           Sanitation
10.0
 5.0                                                              Water
 0.0
             Bank        Counterpart   Other SUBDERE   Other                0   50     100     150

SOURCE: SUBDERE and UGRs                                               SOURCE: SUBDERE and UGRs


A total of 45 PMDTs were prepared under the project (some of them are still in the process)
covering 185 territories. 18 PMDTs belong to first generation of PMDTs (covering 74
subterritories in 5 regions); 13 PMDTs belong to the second generation (covering 71
subterritories in 3 regions); and 14 PMDTs belong to the third generation (covering 40
subterritories in 3 regions).

PMDTs also identified productive activities. It was reported that 27 of such initiatives were
financed under the program, representing an additional investment of US$12.9 million (it was
not envisaged that the project would finance productive activities). Initiatives included mainly
studies, training and irrigation.
As already discussed relevant information on the PIRDT’s impact on incomes and the well
being of the beneficiaries is still pending (baseline data has been collected for sample and
control group for PMDT2). Many subprojects have long preparation periods. That is the case
for instance of rural water supply subprojects which require on average three or four years
between identification and completion. Also, considering that many of the productive activities
supported under the project have substantial maturing periods the lag between investments and
incomes might be considerable. This is particularly true for non-farm activities such as tourism
or fishing that require investments other than basic infrastructure. Thus any quantitative
measurement of the project impact on income before three or four years is unlikely to be
meaningful.

A qualitative assessment of the project achievements fully confirms the effect of the new
infrastructure on economic activities and the welfare of the population. Every community
visited during project supervision and during the preparation of this report reported the positive
developments that could be attributed to the project. They ranged from the basic avoidance of
loss of perishable goods because of better roads, to the opening of export markets for berries or
sea food because of rural water supply for cleaning products or electricity for refrigeration.

The PAD identified as intermediate institutional objectives:

(i) the project will strengthen the capacity of participating agencies to implement territorially-
based, demand-responsive and multi-sector approach to rural infrastructure as a contribution
to local economic, social and environmental sustainability. The learning and results of the
project will provide a basis for implementing a longer-term institutional reform on how rural
infrastructure services are planned, financed and delivered in Chile.

These intermediate institutional objectives were fully achieved. The institutional outcomes
were to be measured by the mainstreaming of a territorial, demand-responsive and multi-
sectoral approach to rural infrastructure within government programs, namely:

       (a)            new methodologies for integrated economic and social evaluation of multi-sector


                                                                                                                     15
         projects implemented by MIDEPLAN.

This objective was fully achieved. As discussed before the methodology for the integrated
economic and social evaluation of multi-sector projects was completed in 2010 and formally
adopted by MIDEPLAN for the evaluation of PMDTs. This new methodology filled a vacuum
in MIDEPLAN’s conceptual resources for economic evaluations that were negatively affecting
the possibility of including in the government’s budget necessary investments for disperse
populations.

   (b)        more effective, decentralized service delivery models and appropriate technical
         solutions adopted by relevant sector agencies to reach un-served and dispersed
         population.

This objective was fully achieved. The decentralized PIRDT approach has become the
preferred mode of the Chilean government to help dispersed populations to enhance their
productive capabilities. Moreover, the project brought to the forefront of the GOC’s agenda
sector shortcomings that needed to be addressed and made remarkable inroads in bringing sector
policies and/or processes in line with the needs of the rural communities. In particular:

   • Water Sector. The Manual on Water and Sanitation Technical Solutions for Rural Areas
     financed under the project had vast influence in reshaping the sector. The changes in the
     legal and regulatory framework of the water sector that took place in the 90s to
     concession the urban systems left the rural areas, particularly the sewage services, in a
     normative vacuum. The study’s contributions were twofold: (i) it resulted in the
     preparation and SUBDERE’s adoption of a manual of different water and sewage
     technical and financial solutions for the rural sector that are now broadly used for project
     preparation; and more importantly (ii) it served as the basis for the drafting of a Water and
     Sewage Sector Law that is now on the way of being sanctioned. The law addresses the
     issues of putting in place adequate rules in terms of community participation, targets,
     appropriate technical regulation, and clarity in terms of institutional responsibilities for
     service delivery. One of the main contributions of the law is the creation of the
     “Superintendencia de Saneamiento? (Sanitation Superintendency) in the MOPTT.

   • Transport Sector. The most important pending issue in the sector is the maintenance of
     “caminos no-enrolados? (unregistered roads that are currently not enrolled under the
     periodic maintenance system) and of roads in indigenous areas. MOPTT has under its
     jurisdiction a network of 80,000 km of secondary and tertiary roads. Rural roads lack
     clear classification, leading to difficulties in analyzing traffic safety and maintenance data,
     and the evaluation of resource needs is carried out on a basis similar to that of inter-urban
     roads which results in a reduced level of maintenance funds available for low-traffic
     roads. There is a need to enhance the assessment and categorization of rural roads, as well
     as the evaluation of maintenance needs and the assignment of responsibilities and
     allocation of funds at an appropriate level to meet local economic development priorities.
     The GOC is in the process of reviewing the maintenance policy and responsibilities for
     non-enrolled rural roads. Meanwhile it was agreed that the maintenance of any road
     rehabilitated under the PIRDT, regardless of its classification, would be the responsibility
     of the MOPTT.

   • Telecommunications. The Bank, SUBDERE and SUBTEL worked closely during project
     implementation in search of possible collaboration. In many cases subprojects identified
     for possible PIRDT financing were carried with alternative sources (6 subprojects have
     been financed under the program, all of them with SUBDERE’s own resources). More
     importantly, SUBTEL acknowledges that the PIRDT has been instrumental in the revision
     of their policies and that the PMDT provides the right umbrella for the delivery of
     services to disperse populations. In their words, they perceive the SUBTEL-PIRDT


                                                                                                 16
      synergy as a win-win situation that combines the former’s know-how on
      telecommunications with the latter’s grasp on regional information. SUBTEL now
      adopted as a public policy the support of the regions though the PIRDT. To that end they
      have appointed regional technical units and incorporated into their surveys the productive
      aspects of demand.

    (c) multi-sector territorial-based planning and service delivery model replicated in other
        non-project territories and regions.

This objective was fully achieved. Currently PIRDT is being replicated in other than the
initial territories (since 2011 five regions were incorporated to the program), and is planned to
cover the full national territory by 2014.

3.3. Efficiency

 Economic and Financial Evaluation. Due to the demand-based nature and characteristics of
the multiple, relatively small subprojects that was to be financed, it was not feasible to carry out
an ex-ante specific economic or financial rates of return type of analysis for the project. Since
the project was considered a framework-type of project, the eligibility criteria, procedures and
methodologies for evaluation and screening of the subprojects were determined at appraisal.
These methodologies relied largely on the systems in use by MIDEPLAN until 2010 adjusted so
that it: (i) accounted for the complementary benefits that stem from a combined set of rural
infrastructure subprojects; and (ii) introduced more streamlined procedures for evaluating
smaller scale subprojects through the application of per capita investment thresholds and
promoted the use of more appropriate and cost-effective technologies for dispersed rural
populations.

Once the new evaluation methodology was introduced, PMDTs were subjected to: (i) a financial
evaluation based on the net revenues of the productive activities accruing to the community
quantifying as costs the outlays of the community members but considering the government’s
investments in infrastructure as sunk costs; and (ii) an economic evaluation in which all the
costs to the economy are included and benefits are calculated on the basis of the producer
surplus generated by the productive activities. When justified, the benefits also include the
consumer surplus of users of the infrastructure other than those engaged in the productive
activities being considered. The strict controls of MIDEPLAN for the inclusion of subprojects
in the national budget ensured that both before and after the introduction of the new
methodology all subprojects financed under the PIRDT had positive Net Present Values at a
discount rate of 6%. Full description of MIDEPLAN’s evaluation methodology and examples
of these evaluations are presented in Annex 2 of this report.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating of Satisfactory follows Bank guidelines for ratings. However this
ICR considers that the project achievements are outstanding. Starting with a pilot concept of
“learning by doing?, the community driven vision of development based on territorial cohesion
spread to all the regions of Chile and the PIRDT is now the instrument that disperse rural
populations are adopting to enhance their productive capacity. In addition:

    (i) project objectives remain highly relevant to the rural development of Chile. The new
    territorial approach has been fully adopted as a government policy. This is confirmed by
    the inclusion of the PIRDT in the 2012 budget, the expansion of the project to cover the
    entire national territory by 2014, and the growing demand for PMDTs in participating
    regions.



                                                                                                 17
      (ii) the project demonstrated satisfactory achievement of its DOs, especially in regard to the
     institutionalization of a territorial development approach and the introduction of a sound
     inter-sectoral agenda as part of Chile’s national policy/strategy.

     (iii) policy gains at individual sectors level are substantial as shown by: (a) the now
     widespread use of a manual with alternative cost effective technologies in the water and
     sanitation sector; (b) the shortly expected approval of a new Rural Water and Sanitation
     Law ; (c) the decision of MOP to revise road classification issues plus the commitment for
     the maintenance of the “no-enroladas? improved under the PIRDT; and (d) the policy
     changes of SUBTEL to reach disperse rural communities through the PIRDT.

     (iv) there is a good outlook for the sustainability of subproject investments through the
     introduction in the latest generation of PMDTs of a ‘management group’ comprising local
     officials, technical experts and beneficiaries to follow up on PMDTs implementation and, if
     necessary, periodic updating. GOC’s strong ownership of the ongoing efforts to revise the
     project logical framework and set the basis for a carrying out a sound impact assessment of
     the project is another proof of sustainability.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impact

(a) Gender
According to an evaluation of the social and environmental aspects of the PIRDT, 11 women
account for about 40% of the members of the “Water Committees? (the local social
organizations/entities that managed the operation and maintenance of PIRDT’s rural water
supply subprojects) and women’s participation grew substantially during the life of the Project.

(b) Indigenous People:
The Project delivered significant benefits to poor, indigenous communities lacking basic
infrastructure and services. Specific subprojects contributed to improving the quality of life in
these communities by removing bottlenecks to productive activities and making indigenous
territories more habitable. The Project was also instrumental in the issuance of legislation that
removed obstacles to public investments within indigenous territories.

(c) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project contributed to important institutional changes and/or strengthening such as: (i)
MIDEPLAN’s ongoing revision of their methodological approaches for the evaluation of rural
infrastructure subprojects; (ii) strengthening the coordination of different government agencies
for the delivery of rural infrastructure services; (iii) acting as a catalyst for the mobilization and
coordinated actions of different government programs to support the development of small
enterprises; (iv) enhancing the capabilities local and community actors for planning and
implementing productive activities while maximizing the use of available institutional
resources; (v) actively and effectively supporting the improvement of the legal and regulatory
framework of the rural water and sanitation sector; (vi) the revision of the classification of rural
roads; and (vii) the introduction in SUBTEL of new policies for reaching disperse rural areas
with coverage and relevant content of new communication technologies.

(d) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A




11
  “Evaluación Social y Ambiental Independiente del Programa de Infraestructura Rural para el
Desarrollo Territorial, PIRDT?, Krisol Ingeniería Ambiental and Capablanca Ltda., February 2012.



                                                                                                   18
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Subprojects undertaken under the first generation PMDT (or PMDT1) were selected prior to the
development of the subsequently agreed methodology. These subprojects, while responding to
the demand of the communities, were identified during a period in which the whole PMDT
concept was only starting to be fully grasped by all the stakeholders (including the consultants
retained for their preparation), lacked a reliable baseline and to a certain extent, might have been
influenced by pressures to accelerate the initially slow project implementation. Therefore they
are inadequate for a full impact assessment, which is being carried out with the PMDT2 and
PMDT3 subprojects. To gather data on the qualitative effect of the PMDT1 subprojects on the
wellbeing of the communities a results survey of around 40 communities was carried out during
November 2011. Survey results are summarized in Annex 5, and they show a very positive
assessment of the beneficiary communities on the impact of the project in their economic and
social life.

During the stakeholders workshops carried out in January 2012 and May 2012 to discuss the
ICR, key project stakeholders emphasized that a valuable contribution of the program has been
the inclusion of systematic and sound participatory approaches, which are an important
innovation in terms of how infrastructure investments are planned and implemented in Chile as
they are now based on demand-driven processes. In particular, sector agencies such as SUBTEL
and CONADI have pointed out that the PIRDT program has become a key tool for planning
new investments in rural areas and working on the ground with beneficiary communities.

4. Assessment of risk to development objectives
Rating: Moderate

Sustainability: Factors taken into account include: (i) most subprojects implemented to
specification; (ii) social capital formation, permanence and functionality of many community
associations, and evidence of community capacity to leverage new benefits/resources; and (iii)
major changes in the national institutional framework supporting rural development.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

 5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR reaches the satisfactory rating on the basis of the following considerations: the project
concept and approach, technical aspects, environmental and social features, financial
management, institutional capacity, risk assessment and sustainability elements as well as
incorporation of lessons of experience and consideration of design alternatives were highly
satisfactory. However, readiness for implementation is being rated as marginally satisfactory
due to inadequate realism in the planned pace of implementation. Also marginal satisfactory
were an imprecise PDO and consequent weak causal links to the KPI, inadequate arrangements
for M&E and lack of baseline data, and lack of sufficient attention to the local-procurement
decision processes.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating is based on the following: (i) regular supervision, candidly reported, with monitored
and agreed actions; (ii) strong relationship with SUBDERE throughout, appropriate advice and
solutions to the Borrower, and consistent effort to remain abreast of significant implementation
difficulties; (iii) commitment to maximizing the project’s disbursement and achieving the DO;
(iv) good procurement oversight; (v) highly effective dialogue on sector issues and policies


                                                                                                 19
supported by the inclusion of sector experts in most supervision missions; (vi) adequate
emphasis on maximizing the PIRDT potential to mobilize different agencies and/or programs to
participate in the project’s territorial approach. These factors are balanced by certain
weaknesses: (i) the intense and commendable efforts to turn around a quasi-problem project
were at the expense of a more even attention to safeguards; (ii) insufficiently intensive
consideration to the development of initial quality PMDTs including the development of
reliable baselines for future impact assessments; and (iii) lack of follow-up on SUBDERE’s
obligations for M&E.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating tries to balance performance against a series of complicated factors such as (i)
difficulties of a complete change in the paradigm of rural infrastructure delivery in Chile; and
(ii) the complexities inherent in projects involving multiple actors and layers of government.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating reflects the following: (i) Government’s willingness to support a novel and complex
operation designed to overhaul Chile’s system of infrastructure delivery to rural populations; (ii)
continuous support for decentralized, demand-driven approaches, and for giving local
communities and agencies substantial latitude to develop their own strategies for rural
development; (iii) Government’s endorsement of a completely new methodology for the
evaluation of rural infrastructure subprojects and their subsequent inclusion in the national
budget; (iv) eventual high receptiveness of sector agencies to review and revise ongoing policies
for rural infrastructure; and (v) outstanding project overseeing particularly by the Contraloría
de la Nación and DIPRES. The less than highly satisfactory rating is due to the government’s
failure to convene the Steering Committee as legally agreed, and the shortcomings in the
implementation of the safeguards screening mechanisms agreed as part of the EMF of the
project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating is based on the following: (i) SUBDERE for the most part showed decisive efforts to
keep the project alive during its most difficult stages; (ii) the fluctuations in leadership,
management quality and progress experienced during the initial implementation period were
promptly remedied in line with Bank’s recommendations; (iii) these initial periods were
balanced later on by the continuity and professionalism of the project’s core technical and
administrative teams; (iv) at the regional level SUBDERE successfully conveyed the support
necessary to implement a decentralized and demand-driven rural investment program with
excellent results and meeting a high proportion of key targets. However, (i) efforts to establish
organized project monitoring and data management had only modest results and the ground
work for a meaningful impact assessment exercise has only started recently; and (ii) complying
with agreements such as the ESF and reporting on monitoring indicators.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating balances the Borrower’s efforts – reflected in successful outcomes for critically
important activities – against its incapability to provide needed sector coordination through the
Steering Committee and agreed M&E framework.



                                                                                                20
6. Lessons learned

The main lessons to be derived from the project are:

Operational processes

(a)     The design and implementation of complex projects involving substantial involvement
of specialists in several disciplines requires above average resource allocations. The thorough
preparation which involved comprehensive studies, very detailed multi-layered institutional
arrangements and a high quality operational manual, required above average Bank resources
which were complemented by a PHRD grant. On the other hand, the strengths and weaknesses
of the project to a certain extent reflect the tradeoffs faced by Bank teams in allocating limited
resources to achieve project objectives in several sectors and several regions with different
challenges while ensuring compliance with fiduciary and safeguard requirements.

(b)      The design of fairly complex technical assistance for planning in projects with
national coverage in poor rural areas might require higher than usual preparation in terms
of a thorough assessment of existing community needs and available optimal social delivery
systems. Rural development projects need to diagnose the quantity and quality of technical
assistance services at an early stage of project preparation and include appropriate measures for
their improvement, which may include public/private arrangements, piloted in selected
territories, and strategies for ensuring the delivery of services consistent with the type of
expected product.

(c)      The right amount of flexibility in project design and implementation might be key to
project success. In retrospect the project was too specific on certain areas thus imposing a level
of rigidity that challenged its viability. Some of these rigidities were eventually corrected. In
particular (i) the amendment of February 2009 allowed for the expansion in the type of activities
eligible for project financing and changed the financing arrangements in a way that unlocked the
pace of works; and (ii) the acceptance of “obvious subprojects? for Bank financing disengaged
subprojects with evident economic merits from the slow approval of the overall investment plan
(PMDT). Less successful were the attempts to solve procurement differences with a country
with undisputable governance qualities, which remains a pending issue in Bank policy.

Sectoral perspective

(d)      Institutions with a strong mindset and with the capacity to manage a decentralized
program of interventions as well as the selection of territories with ample social capital were
key to project success. To a great extent the important project achievement can be attributed to:
(i) the presence of highly effective Chilean institutions with the national reach to provide
thorough project implementation and oversight; (ii) the selection of a leading agency with a
clear mandate to ensure the coordination required in a multi-sector and multi-layered project,
and with a decentralized mindset open to involvement from the local level; (iii) the selection of
territories with ample social capital and ongoing potentially viable economic undertakings; and
(iv) a culture of participation and accountability in selected rural communities, which was built
over the course of project implementation; in this sense, PMDTs were a mechanism that helped
structure the dialogue and the participation as they reflected the agreements on what
investments were going to be financed and implemented.

(e)     Managing expectations should become an integral part of projects pioneering
substantive and complex changes in servicing rural communities. The project showed the
importance of (i) having realistic estimates of intermediate and final targets and the lead time to
achieve them; (ii) having in place continuously open channels of communication with
beneficiaries to discuss progress/problems/remedial actions to reach the agreed targets; and (iii)
creating synergies, disseminating information and building participatory networks which


                                                                                                21
promote direct interface between government officials of different regions and beneficiaries of
different communities.

(f)      Inclusion of productive activities in the project might add a level of complexity in
design and implementation but could be the key for project success. This is particularly true in
countries that do not count with the rich array of programs that Chile has to support
entrepreneurial productive activities in rural communities. But even when these programs exist,
it is crucial for the project to ensure an adequate coordination by facilitating community access
to these programs through, for instance, financing pre-investment studies for productive
activities, providing technical assistance and training to producers in the communities,
establishing the initial contacts with the agencies and/or programs that would be relevant for the
long term success of the productive activity.

(g)      M&E should remain a high priority during both project design and implementation
and weaknesses in the original arrangements and responsibilities should be addressed as
soon as detected. This is even more important in quasi-pilot projects having to prove their effect
for the purpose of future replication. Project design should consider establishing M&E as a
legally binding obligation that if necessary could persist beyond project closing so as to ensure
reliable measurement of impacts with substantial lags. In the case of this particular project that
because of its quality might become a reference for future operations, the Bank should strongly
consider alternatives (such as AAA or FBS engagement) to follow up on the Government
impact assessment, identify best practices and disseminate the results.

(h)      Sustainability of the investments. This project shows the increased impact of multi-
sectoral investments that provide a full package of demand-driven infrastructure services linked
to productive activities, which brings greater efficiency, complementarity, and sustainability of
services through cross-sectoral service bundling based on a territorial development approach.
For the project to really achieve its objectives, it is important to have sustainable arrangements
in terms of operation and maintenance. The introduction of lower cost technologies, and the
assessments of willingness to pay and preferences for operating services which were carried out
through participatory processes proved to be key for ensuring enhanced sustainability. Local
involvement in operation and maintenance, in particular in the case of rural water supply
subprojects but also in rural electrification and ICT subprojects, proved to be instrumental in
improving management and maintenance practices.

(i)      Lessons for decentralization efforts. Tools under PIRDT program offer important
lessons for decentralization processes in other areas, such as education and health sectors, as
they reflect the importance of territorial planning processes, participatory approaches, and social
capital dimensions in order to better tailor to particular needs the pace and scope of the
decentralization process.




                                                                                                22
                                        Annex 1
                               Project Costs and Financing

 A. Project Cost by Component (in USD Million Equivalent)


                                        Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                        Percentage of
           Components                 Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                         Appraisal
                                         millions)         millions)

Participatory Territorial Planning

Elaboration and approval of PDTs      2.625            1.809            68.9%

                           Sub-total 2.625             1.809            68.9%

Infrastructure Service Delivery

Pre-investment project formulation    5.600            0.000            0%

Execution of investments              31.760           44.657           146.6%

Supervision of execution of           1.640            0.000            0%
investments

Support to establish local            1.825            0.000            0%
management mechanisms for O&M

                           Sub-total 40.825            44.657           109.4%

Institutional Strengthening

Strengthening capacity to             2.112            3.078            145.7%
implement territorial development
program

Policy improvements                   0.385            0.346            89.9%

Monitoring & evaluation, and          0.875            0.000            0%
program expansion

Incremental operating costs           0.308            0.119            38.6%

                           Sub-total 3.680             3.543            96.3%

Contingencies                         2.879            0.000            0%

Front-end-fee                         0.251            0.251            100.0%

TOTAL                                 50.260           50.260           100.0%




                                                                                   23
   B. Financing

                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                    Type of Co-                                            Percentage at
Source of Funds                      Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                     financing                                              Appraisal
                                        millions)          millions)
Borrower                                 40.00             40.00 (*)            44%
International
Bank           for
Reconstruction                             50.26              50.26             56%
and
Development
(*) The Borrower allocated additional resources to the program. SUBDERE contributed with
US$40.6 million from its own budget (for a total contribution of US$80.6 million). Sectoral
ministries and FNR contributed with US$29.2 million. In addition, 27 productive initiatives
linked to the PMDTs were financed, amounting US$12.9 million.




                                                                                        24
                                          Annex 2
                                   Outputs by Components


Component 1: Participatory Territorial Planning – PMDTs

A total of 45 PMDTs have been prepared (or are in the process), covering 185 PMDTs
subterritoriess: 18 PMDTs belong to first generation of PMDTs (covering 74 subterritories in 5
regions); 13 PMDTs belong to the second generation (covering 71 subterritories in 3 regions);
and 14 PMDTs belong to the third generation (covering 40 subterritories in 3 regions). The
following tables present the PMDTs by generation.

Table 1: PMDT – First Generation
       REGION                             COQUIMBO
       Territory                          Targeted Area (Subterritory)
       Costero Norte                      Cuenca de Los Choros (Comuna La Higuera)
 1                                        Borde Costero de La Higuera (Comuna La Higuera)
       Corredor Limari                    Fray Jorge – Valle del Encanto (Comuna Ovalle)
                                          Ribera Sur del Embalse Paloma (Comuna Monte Patria)
 2                                        Parte Norte de la Comuna de Putinaqui (Comuna Putinaqui)
                                          Comunidades Agricolas Combarbalá Poniente (Comuna
                                          Combarbalá)
       Valle Interior                     Ruta Antakari (Comunas Vicuna, Río Hurtado y Andacollo)
                                          Turismo Mágico (Comuna Paihuano)
 3                                        Sector Norte de la Cordillera de Las Cardas (Comuna
                                          Coquimbo)
                                          Cuenca del Río Turbio (Comuna Vicuna)
       Cuenca Choapa                      Desembocadura del Río Choapa y Cuenca del Río Illapel
 4                                        (Comunas Canela e Illapel)
                                          Valle del Quillimarí (Comuna Los Vilos)
       REGION                             MAULE
       Cuenca de Mataquito                Palquibudis – El Corazón (Comuna Rauco)
                                          Duao – Lipimavida (Comuna Licanten y Vichuquen)
                                          Boyeruca – Lloncaben (Comuna Vichuquén)
                                          El Parrón – Barba Rubia (Comunas Rauca y Hualané)
 5                                        Idahue – Leonera (Comuna Licanten)
                                          Espinalillo (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Hualané)
                                          Uraco (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Vichuquén)
                                          Rarin (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Vichuquén)
       Maule Sur                          Coronel Maule – Quinhue (Comuna Cauquenes)
                                          Carreras Cortas – Santa Rosa (Comuna Chanco)
                                          Loanco – Pahuil (Comuna Chanco)
 6                                        Quilicura – Canelillo (Comuna Pelluhue)
                                          Pocillas (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Cauquenes)
                                          Name (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Cauquenes)
                                          Cauquenes Costa (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Cauquenes)
       Area Influencia Embalse Ancoa      La Ballica – Los Batros (Comuna Linares)
                                          Santa Elena – Maitencillo (Comuna Yerbas Buenas)
                                          Pataguas – San Manuel (Comuna Villa Alegre)
                                          Embalse Ancoa (Comunas Linares y Colbún)
 7                                        Carrizal – Melozal (Comuna San Javier)
                                          San Dionisio – Caracoles (Comuna Colbún)
                                          Huerta de Maule (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna San Javier)
                                          Nirivilo (CONAF-PIRDT) (Comuna San Javier)
       Area Poniente de la Provincia de   La Orilla (Comuna Pencahue)
       Talca                              La Aguada – El Boldal (Comuna Empedrado)
                                          Palmas de Toconey – Cancha Quillay (Comuna Pencahue)
 8                                        Guaquen – Limavida (Comuna Curepto)
                                          Estancilla (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Curepto)
                                          Secano Costero Sur (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Constitucion)
                                          Llongocura (CONAF – PIRDT) (Comuna Curepto)


                                                                                                     25
      REGION                        BIOBIO
      Valle del Itata               Minas de Leuque – trehuaco (Comunas de Trehuaco y
 9                                  Portezuelo)
                                    Guarilihue – Batuco (Comunas Coelemu y Ranquil)
      Punilla                       Tanilvoro (Comuna Coihueco)
 10                                 Secano de Transicion (Comuna de San Carlos y Niquen)
 11   Pencopolitano                 Los Cerezos (Comuna Tomé)
      Laja Diguillín                Santa Rosa – Bulnes (Comuna Bulnes)
 12                                 Rinconada – Calle Dávila (Comuna El Carmen)
 13   Bio Bío Cenro                 Quiebra Frenos (Comuna Laja)
      Bio Bío Cordillera            Las Canoas (Comunas Negreto y Mulchen)
 14                                 Paralillo – Tinajón o Precordillera de Quilleco (Comuna
                                    Quilleco)
      REGION                        LOS RIOS
      Valdivia                      Liquiñe (Comuna de Panguipulli)
                                    Lago Maihue (Comuna Futrono)
                                    Maiquillahue (Comuna Mariquina)
                                    Chaihuin (Comuna Corral)
 15                                 Cumleufu (Comuna La Unión)
                                    Riñinahue (Comuna Lago Ranco)
                                    Antilhue – Chosday (Comuna Lanco)
                                    Río Bueno Rural (Comuna Río Bueno)
      REGION                        LOS LAGOS
      Borde Costero Pacífico Sur    Pucatrihue – Tril – Tril (Comuna San Juan de la Costa)
                                    San Pedro Hueyelhue – Riachuelo – El Bolsón – Millatue –
                                    Putrihue (Comunas de Río Negro y Purranque)
 16                                 El Dao – Yaco Bajo y Alto Aguantao – Huayun (Comuna
                                    Calbuco)
                                    Llico Bajo – Estaquilla Hua Huar – Quenuir (Comunas Fresia,
                                    Los Muermos y Maullín)
      Chiloé                        Peninsula de Lacuy y zona noroeste de la comuna Ancud
                                    (Comunas Ancud, Castro y Chonchi)
                                    Parque Nacional Chiloé y Cuencas de los Lagos Huillinco y
                                    Cucao (Comunas Castro y Chonchi)
                                    Península de Rilán y Borde Interior Costero de Chonchi
 17                                 (Comunas de Castro y Chonchi)
                                    Estero de Huildad y Zona Centro Interior de Quellón (Comuna
                                    Quellón)
                                    Borde Costeri Interior Centro Norte Isla Grande de Chiloe
                                    (Comunas Ancud, Quemchi, Dalcahue)
                                    Islas de Quinchao (Comunidad de Quinchao)
      Palena                        Pichicolo – El Manzano (Comuna Hualaihué)
                                    Villa Santa Lucía (Comuna Chaitén)
 18                                 Río Azul – La Dificultad – Las Escalas (Comuna Futaleufu)
                                    Puerto Ramírez – El Malito – El Tranquilo (Palena)

Table 2: PMDT – Second Generation
       REGION                       BIO BIO
       Territory                    Targeted Area (Subterritory)
       Valle del Itata              Montaña Sur
                                    El Manzano – Salamanca
 1                                  Cayumanqui – Coyanco
                                    Dadinco – Monte León
                                    Cuna de Prat
      Punilla                       San Fabián Cordillera
                                    Precordillera del Punilla
 2                                  Precordillera Coihueco
                                    Arrocero
      Laja Diguillín                Saltos del Itata
 3                                  Valle Regado
                                    Pemuco Poniente
      Arauco                        Los Patos – Nine
 4                                  Punta Morguilla
                                    Lonalhue Sur


                                                                                              26
                                          Lleu – Lleu Norte
      Bio Bío Centro                      Santa Fé
 5                                        Choroico
                                          Rucahue Sur
      Bio Bío Cordillera                  Mulchén Oriente
                                          Alto Quilaco
 6                                        Los Boldos
                                          Bajo Duqueco
                                          Valle del Laja
      Amdel                               Circuito Campesino
                                          Torre Dorada
 7                                        Ruta de Las Flores
                                          Cuenca San Cristobal
      REGION                              ARAUCANIA
      Vergel del Sur                      Collipulli
                                          Angol
                                          Renaico
                                          Angol
 8                                        Angol
                                          Ercilla
                                          Gorbea
                                          Gorbea
      Territorio Nahuelbuta (ex Cluster   Traiguén
      Forestal)                           Lumaco
                                          Los Sauces
                                          Puren
 9                                        Puren
                                          Galvarino
                                          Galvarino
                                          Galvarino
      Araucanía Andina                    Lonquimay
                                          Cunco
                                          Curacautín
                                          Curacautín
 10                                       Victoria
                                          Victoria
                                          Vilcun
                                          Melipeuco
      Valle Araucanía                     Nueva Imperial
                                          Freire
                                          Nueva Imperial
                                          Cholcol
                                          Nueva Imperial
                                          Nueva Imperial
 11                                       Perquenco
                                          Perquenco
                                          Lautaro
                                          Lautaro
                                          Lautaro
                                          Lautaro
      REGION                              LOS LAGOS
      Estuario del Reloncaví              Comunidades Costeras
      Cuenca del Lago Llanquihue          Sector Rural Puerto Octay
 12                                       Norde Costero Norte (Comuna Llanquihue)
                                          Borde Costero Frutillar
                                          Río Pescado – Ralun
      Corredor Bioceanico                 Eje Ruta 215
 13                                       Ribera Sur Río Bueno

Table 3: PMDT – Third Generation
       REGION                              MAULE
       Territory                           Targeted Area (Subterritory)
 1     Curicó Oriente                      Itahue – Parque Inglés (Comuna de Molina)



                                                                                       27
                                            Villa Prat – El Durazno (Comuna de Sagrada Familia)
                                            Santa Berta – La Laguna (Comuna de Teno)
                                            La Laguna – Los Coipos (Comuna de Romeral)
                                            Potrero Grande – Tutuquén (Comuna de Curicó)
       Talca Oriente                        Colin – Duao (Comuna de Maule)
                                            Carretones – La Mina (Comuna de San Clemente)
 2                                          Santa Rita – Huncuecho Norte (Comuna de Pelarco)
                                            San Camilo de Bella Vista – La Chispa (Comuna de Río Claro)
                                            Pangue Abajo – Los Cuncos (Comuna de San Rafael)
       Tierra de Neruda                     Los Robles – Santa Rosa (Comuna de Retiro)
 3                                          Canelos – El Carmen (Comuna de Longavi)
                                            San Eugenio – Villa Baviera (Comuna de Parral)
       REGION                               LIBERTADOR
       Unidad de Desarrollo Estrategico     Subterritorio No 1 (Comuna de Marchingue)
       No 2                                 Subterritorio No 3 (Comuna de Marchingue)
 4                                          Subterritorio N 2 (Comuna de Pichilemu)
                                            Subterritorio No 4 (Comuna de Paredones)
                                            Subterritorio No 5 (Comuna de Paredones)
       Unidad de Desarrollo Estrategico     Subterritorio No 1 (Comuna de Peralillo)
       No 4                                 Subterritorio No 2 (Comuna de Pumanque)
                                            Subterritorio No 3 (Comuna de Lolol, Santa Cruz)
                                            Subterritorio No 4 (Comuna de Palmilla)
 5                                          Subterritorio No 5 (Comuna de Santa Cruz)
                                            Subterritorio No 6 (Comuna de Nancagua)
                                            Subterritorio No 7 (Comuna de Chepica)
                                            Subterritorio No 8 (Comuna de Lolol)
       Unidad de Desarrollo Estrategico     Subterritorio No 1 (Comuna de Placilla)
       No 7                                 Subterritorio No 2 (Comuna de Chimbarongo, San Fernando)
 6                                          Subterritorio No 3 (Comuna de Chimbarongo)
                                            Subterritorio No 4 (Comuna de Chimbarongo)
       REGION                               LOS RIOS
 7     Panguipulli                          Liquiñe
 8     Lanco                                Antilhue Chosdoi
       Mariquina                            Maiquillahue
 9                                          Tralcao
       Corral                               Chaihuin
 10                                         Isla del Rey
 11    Futrono                              Huienahue
       Lago Ranco                           Riñinahue
 12                                         Rupumeica
 13    La Unión                             Puerto Nuevo
 14    Río Bueno                            Mantilhue

Analysis of First Generation of PMDTs

As stated before, the first generation of PMDTs comprises 18 PMDTs, covering 74
subterritories in 5 regions (Coquimbo, Maule, Bio Bio, Los Rios and Los Lagos). Since those
PMDTs were elaborated before the formal development of the methodology, it was agreed that
no impact evaluation would be undertaken.

Each region presented a report assessing the status of PMDT1. Unfortunately each region
followed a different structure in presenting the results, making it impossible to consolidate all
the information. Results are shown based on available data. The report also included some
surveys (following questionnaire prepared by the Bank). The results of the surveys are
presented in Annex 5.




                                                                                                    28
Table 4: Region El Maule
                            Cuenca de         Maule           Embalse            Talca            TOTAL
                            Mataquito          Sur             Ancoa           Poniente           MAULE
                             Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned
                                                                                                           Actual (*)
                             (PMDTs)    (*) (PMDTs)    (*)    (PMDTs)   (*)    (PMDTs)     (*)    (PMDTs)
Number of Beneficiaries                6,584          8,415            43,606             2,829              61,434
Water                                5      3       4       2       19      14          9       5       37         24
Sanitation                           2      1       2       1       23       4          3       1       30          7
Roads                                9      9       9       8       24      22          9       9       51         48
Electricity                          2      1       0       0        3       0          1       1        6          2
ICT                                  1      1       1       1        2       2          2       1        6          5
Port                                 1      1       1       1        0       0          0       0        2          2
SUBTOTAL                            20     16      17      13       71      42         24      17      132         88
Sports (not PIRDT)                   1      0       0       0        0       0          0       0        1          0
Cycling Safety (not PIRDT)           1      0       0       0        0       0          0       0        1          0
Productive Inf. (not PIRDT)          1      0       0       0        0       0          0       0        1          0
Channels (not PIRDT)                                0       0        1       0          0       0        1          0
TOTAL                               23     16      17      13       71      42         24      17      135         88
(*) Incl udes both compl eted a nd under cons tructi on


Table 5: Financing of PMDT MAULE
                   Cuenca de                          Maule             Embalse            Talca
                                            %                    %                     %             %          TOTAL         %
                   Mataquito                           Sur               Ancoa           Poniente
PIRDT                  8                  34.8%         7       41.2%     28       38.9%    11     45.8%          54         39.7%
MOP                    3                  13.0%         1       5.9%       7       9.7%      1     4.2%           12         8.8%
SUBDERE                3                  13.0%         3       17.6%      4       5.6%      2     8.3%           12         8.8%
Private Investment     2                  8.7%          2       11.8%      0       0.0%      0     0.0%           4          2.9%
FNDR                   0                  0.0%          0       0.0%       4       5.6%      2     8.3%           6          4.4%
SUBTEL                 0                  0.0%          0       0.0%       0       0.0%      1     4.2%           1          0.7%
No Advance             7                  30.4%         4       23.5%     29       40.3%     7     29.2%          47         34.6%
                      23                 100.0%         17     100.0%     72      100.0%    24    100.0%         136        100.0%


Table 6: Region Coquimbo
                                                                  COQUIMBO
                               Costero Norte Corredor Limari Valle Interior Cuenca Choapa        TOTAL
                              Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual                       %
PIRDT Infrastructure
                                  15          9           20    7       20        10       36   16         91          42    46.2%
Projects

No PIRDT
                                  14          2           15    6       18        2        7     4         54          14    25.9%
Infrastructure Projects
(Fomento Productivo)

Table 7: Region Bio Bio
                         Completed        Under Excecution         Other              TOTAL
                               Amount               Amount             Amount             Amount
                     No of                 No of              No of              No of
                                 (US$                (US$               (US$               (US$
                    Projects              Projects           Projects           Projects
                               Million)             Million)           Million)           Million)
Roads                       23     11.989         5    5.878       21     6.567       49    24.434
Energy                       2      0.277         1    0.153         0                  3      0.43
Water                        2      0.447         3    2.337         6   10.578       11    13.362
Sanitation                   0          0         2    3.518         3    3.652         5      7.17
TOTAL                       27     12.713       11    11.886       30    20.797       68    45.396




                                                                                                                               29
Component 2: Infrastructure Service Delivery

The project financed 250 subprojects: 65 water subprojects, 7 sewerage subprojects, 158 road
subprojects, 12 energy subprojects, 6 ICT subprojects and 2 port subprojects. Total investment
amounted US$153.7 million: 15% for water, 5% for sewerage, 75% for roads, 3% foe energy,
1% for ICT and 1% for ports. Regarding the source of the investment: 30% was financed
through the Loan, 25% with counterpart, 25% with SUBDERE’s own budget (different from the
counterpart) and 18% from other sources (mainly sectoral ministries budgets and FNR). The
following figures illustrate the outputs achieved until December 2012.
           Figure 1: Subprojects per Sector                                                            Figure 2: Investments per Sector

                             Number of Projects                                                                   Total Investment (US$ Million)
     180                                                                                     140.0
                                        158                                                                                         114.7
     160                                                                                     120.0
     140                                                                                     100.0
     120
                                                                                               80.0
     100
      80                                                                                       60.0
            65
      60                                                                                       40.0
                                                                                                            22.9
      40
                                                                                               20.0                     7.5
                                                       12                                                                                           5.4          1.8           1.6
      20                     7                                       6               2
                                                                                                0.0
       0
                                                                                                            Water    Sanitation     Roads         Energy         ICT           Ports
           Water         Sanitation    Roads         Energy          ICT            Ports

                   Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.                                                                      Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.


           Figure 3: Investments per Source                                                 Figure 4: Investment per Sector and Source

                         Project Financing            (US$Million)                               Ports
    50.0         45.9
    45.0                                                    40.6                                      ICT
    40.0                              38.1
                                                                                                                                                                       Bank
    35.0                                                                                        Energy
                                                                                  29.2                                                                                 Counterpart
    30.0
    25.0                                                                                        Roads                                                                  Other SUBDERE
    20.0                                                                                                                                                               Other
    15.0                                                                                     Sanitation
    10.0
     5.0                                                                                        Water
     0.0
              Bank               Counterpart         Other SUBDERE            Other                         0            50                 100            150


                   Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.                                                                      Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.

      Figure 5: Financing per Source (Water)                                                Figure 6: Financing per Source (Sanitation)

                       Financing per Sector: Water                                                              Financing per Sector: Sanitation
                                      (US$ Million)                                                                               (US$ Million)
                                                                                                                                    0.7
                                               4.5
                   5.0                                                                                                                        0.7
                                                                           Bank                                                                                        Bank
                                                                           Counterpart                                                                                 Counterpart
                                                                           Other SUBDERE                                                          1.4                  Other SUBDERE
                                                                           Other                            4.7                                                        Other
                 4.2
                                                 9.2




    Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.                                                               Source: SUBDERE and UGRs.




Figures for ICT and Ports were not included since investments were financed only with
SUBDERE’s own resources.


Component 3: Institutional Strengthening

The Loan contributed with US$3.54 million to finance several studies (versus US$3.68 million
originally envisaged). Main activities covered were: (i) strengthening capacity to implement
territorial development program (US$3.08 million versus US$2.12 initially envisaged), (ii)


                                                                                                                                                                                       30
policy improvements (US$0.36 million versus US$0.39 million initially envisaged), and (iii)
incremental operating costs (US$0.12 million versus US$0.31 million initially envisaged). The
only shortcoming of this component was the in the monitoring and evaluation expenditures.
Nevertheless, it is important to note that even though the Loan did not finance this activity,
several     analysis       were      undertaken      financed     with       local     funds.




                                                                                           31
                                                  Annex 3
                                       Economic and Financial Analysis

     1. Economic and financial analyses

Due to the demand-based nature and characteristics of the multiple, relatively small subprojects
that were to be financed by the project, an ex-post specific economic or financial rates of return
analysis for the overall project is not feasible (the PAD did not include an ex-ante overall rate of
return). Since this was a framework-type of project, the eligibility criteria, procedures and
methodologies for evaluation and screening of the subprojects were determined at appraisal
These methodologies relied largely on the systems then in use by MIDEPLAN although with
some adjustments since one of the major shortcomings of MIDPLAN approaches was the
inability of capturing investment benefits accruing to disperse populations. These adjustments
entailed (a) taking into account the territory-based approach and so that complementary
benefits that stem from a combined set of rural infrastructure subprojects and (b) more
streamlined procedures for evaluating smaller scale subprojects through the application of per
capita investment thresholds and to promote the use of more appropriate and cost-effective
technologies for dispersed rural populations. This "adjusted" framework was in place until the
development of the new methodology for the evaluation of territorially-based multi-sector
infrastructure plans. The new methodology, considered one of the main contributions of the
project and now fully in use in Chile, is described below.

Methodological Framework

The methodology is designed as a sequence of steps to guide the process of formulation,
approval and execution of PMDTs. The steps are:

PMDTs. Formulation and Approval Stages.

1. Identification of territories 12 and subterritories.
2. Technical and Political validation of the proposed territories and subterritories.
3. Identification of productive activities and business opportunities associated with the
    territories and subterritories.
4. Diagnosis of the social and institutional capital of the territory.
5. Generation of mains stakeholders of a joint vision of territorial development (participatory
    approach).
6. Definition of the vision for the subterritory and identification of the restrictions (gaps) of the
    productive processes and of the environment for the development jointly agreed business
    opportunities.
7. Identification of instruments for productive enhancement and (infrastructure or public
    services) that facilitate the development of business opportunities (pipeline identification)
8. Optimized private evaluation (business evaluation for each type of a standard productive
    unit considering the increased productivity derived from the application of the development
    instruments and the effect of the public investments identified for the subterritory.
9. Social evaluation of public and private initiatives identified for the development of the
    subterritory, considering the total productive units.
10. PMDT proposal preparation for the territory.


   For practical purposes the territory is defined as a space of public/private and community consensus and of decision
making about investment priorities, thus becoming an integral planning unit at the sub-regional level. In a territory several
12



economic and social relations take place which, thus, determine the flow of exchanges affecting their own population and
that of other territories and external entities. Within the interior of the territory we can identify the focused areas of
investments ore subterritories that correspond to concrete spaces where the program takes place, identifying the local
demand, project ideas, and investment allocations. This focus is developed by the political and technical regional
institutions.



                                                                                                                         32
11. Approval of the PMDT and definition of priorities for the pipeline identified for the
    subterritory.
12. Definition of the Logic Framework Matrix (LFM), definition of the base line of the
    subterrritory development and targets for the program.
13. Presentation to MIDEPLAN of the program according to current regulations.

2. Implementation Stage of PMDTs

1.   Design of a monitoring and evaluation system.
2.   Execution of the investments.
3.   Integrated management of the PMDT.
4.   Monitoring and periodic updating of the PMDT.
5.   Impact assessment of the results of the PMDTs implementation.

The following sections present the Matrix with a summary of the methodological development.




                                                                                         33
Summary Matrix: Objectives – Processes - Products
Stage I: Formulation and Approval of PMDTs

       General Objective
                                   Specific Objectives/Recommended Methodology                                                                  Intermediate Products
        Process/Activity
                                                                                                                             ■ Technical Report on the productive potential of
                                                                                                                                territories focused and prioritized and the productive
                                                                                                                                strategic guidelines of each one of the territories to be
                                                                                                                                submitted to the CORE.
                                                                                                                             ■ A power point presentation to be submitted to the
                                                                                                                                CORE
                                                                                                                             ■ A check list and confirmation of at least the following
                                                                                                                                criteria:
                                                                                                                              -     The territories are being considered in strategies,
                                                                                                                                    sector or local regional plans as areas of rural
                                    Specific objectives:                                                                            development,
                                   ■ Identify specific territories, where through the updating or creation of public          -     The productive sector(s) have real and/or potential
                                      investment plans, the achievement of objectives and the development targets in                markets.
                                      the Strategic Plans of the institutions that govern and administer the territory can
1. Identification and selection of                                                                                            -     In the development of productive activities there is
                                      be achieved.
territories                                                                                                                         some experience of working with institutions of
                                    Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                                    productive development.
                                   ■ Gathering and analysis of relevant information
                                                                                                                              -     The development of productive activities does not
                                   ■ Seminars, Workshops and Meetings with the participation of the different
                                                                                                                                    face any legal or institutional restrictions that cannot
                                      institutional levels that govern the territory.
                                                                                                                                    be easily resolved within the next two years (land
                                                                                                                                    ownership, water rights, and use restrictions).
                                                                                                                              -     There are public institutions with associative
                                                                                                                                    experience able to manage the PMDT.
                                                                                                                              -      There is at the municipal level enough capacity or
                                                                                                                                    the existing capacity can be strengthened to
                                                                                                                                    formulate and manage projects.
                                                                                                                              -     In the identified territories there is a social capital
                                                                                                                                    (even an incipient one) that can be strengthen for the
                                                                                                                                    sustainable development of the PIRDT subprojects

2.   Technical and political Recommended methodology:                                                           ■ CORE’ act approving the documents and the list of
     approval of the territories • This is a technical –political process recommended by the Mayor which should   territories and subterritories.
     and subterritories            lead to the CORE’s decision on the specific territories where the PIRDT will ■ Start of the public bidding process to carry out the
                                   intervene.                                                                     following aspects of the methodology.
                                      Specific objectives:
                                      ■ Diagnosis of the current level of development of the productive activity in each Diagnosis Report of the productive activity(ies) in the
                                        subterritory.                                                                     subterritory including the identification and analysis of the
                                                                                                                          possible scale of production and the size of the production
                                      ■ Viability analysis of the business opportunities associated with the productive units.
3. Identification              and
                                        activities of each subterritory.                                                  ■ Technical reports on the viability of the productive
evaluation      of      productive
                                     ■ Approval of the subterritories selected by the CORE                                    activities considering the sustainability that would
activities by subterritory and the
                                     Recommended methodology:                                                                 permit to know the magnitude of the physical and
associated                business
                                     ■ Surveys to gather primary information on the productive capacity of each               productive potential of the subterritory. It should
opportunities.
                                        subterritory.                                                                         include the identification of respective chain values.
                                     ■ Team work of productive development experts to assess relevant demand and
                                        supply scenarios for the development of productive activities value chains of the ■ Identification of the Opportunity Map and justified
                                        subterritory..                                                                        selection of the more promising business opportunities.
                                     ■ Preparation of technical reports in a coordinated and participatory way.

                                   Specific Objective:
                                   ■ Determination of the social and institutional capital supporting the development
                                                                                                                         ■ With the information gathered under objectives 3 and
                                      of business opportunities in the subterritory.
                                                                                                                           4, preparation of a “competitive report? realistically
4.     Diagnosis of the social and Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                           determining if each “subterritory? and the “people? in
institutional capital of the       ■ “Focus group? for the gathering of primary information.
                                                                                                                           it can develop the “business opportunities?. (Guidelines
territory.                         ■ Semi-structured interviews.
                                                                                                                           for the preparation of of a competitive report are
                                   ■ Preparation of technical reports including primary and secondary information so
                                                                                                                           provided)
                                      as to provide a thorough analysis of the social and institutional potential of the
                                      subterritory.
                                                                                                                           ■ Shared vision       of   the   territory   with   relevant
                                                                                                                             stakeholders.
                                     Specific Objective:
                                     ■ Create with the relevant stakeholders a shared vision of the subterritory
5 Creation of a shared vision                                                                                              Documents of Agreements and Territorial Pacts between
for the subterritory                                                                                                       the Authority, the Civil Society and the Entrepreneurial
                                     Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                           Sector.
                                     ■ Workshops for strategic planning
                                                                                                                           ■ Working Program of the “núcleo gestor? (discussion
                                     ■ Subscription of commitments.
                                                                                                                               tables, association or any modality of territorial
                                                                                                                               interaction)




                                                                                                                                                                                          35
                                                                                                                         ■ Flow chart of a model productive process or productive
                                                                                                                           unit.
                               Specific objective:
                               ■ Based on a business model that takes into consideration people, groups, micro-
                                                                                                                         ■ Model diagram Supplier-Process-Client Proveedor-
                                   entrepeneurs and potential s of the subterritory define a “wished situation? of
                                                                                                                           Proceso-Cliente, with all the actors network
                                   the productive activity(ies) with due consideration of the subterritory
                                                                                                                           intervening and affected by the process in the territory.
                                   competitiveness ,, possible business opportunities and coherence with the shared
6. Definition of the “wanted
                                   vision of the subterritory.
situation? of the productive                                                                                             ■ Gaps to achieve the “whished situation?
                               Once the “wished situation? of the productive activity(ies) is defined, it is necessary
activity and identification of
                               to identify the gap with respect to the actual situation in relation to the technical
gaps.                                                                                                                    ■ Competitiveness report, which will show the viability
                               capacities, labor, infrastructure, social capital, institutional capital, others.
                                                                                                                           of the “wished situation? and will give guidelines to
                               Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                           identify the necessary public and private investments.
                               ■ Competiveness analysis of the productive activities in the subterritory.
                               ■ FODA analysis of the productive activities.
                                                                                                                         ■ Stakeholders’ network participating in the territorial
                               ■ Business environment.
                                                                                                                           development and their interaction with the
                                                                                                                           governmental institutional network.
                               Specific objectives:
                               ■ To identify and formulate at the project profile level (PIRDT pipeline) and at the      ■ List of investments in productive activities and
                                  idea level (non-PIRDT pipeline) the project pipeline and initiatives that are            infrastructure already planned in the subterritory and
                                  considered necessary to reach the “wished situation? in each subterritory. To            formulated at the level of idea or of project.
                                  identify the existence and operation of instruments of productive development          ■ Competitiveness report resulting from the inclusion of
                                  in the area.                                                                             infrastructure investments.
                               ■ Recommended methodology:
 7.       Identification   and ■ To identify the infrastructure investment already decided and the future
 formulation of the integrated    infrastructure investments to be carried out in the territory and that support the     ■ Performing review of the portfolio of investments in
 project pipeline of the PMDT     sustainability of the productive activities in the subterritory.                         infrastructure produced with the tools from SQL and
 for each subterritory.        ■ Formulation of PIRDT infrastructure project profiles according to the analysis            OLAP of the Bank of Integrated Projects.
                                  of alternative solutions to the identified gaps and the use of minimum cost            ■ Coherence analysis between the “wished situation? and
                                  criteria.                                                                                the investment initiatives in the territory (activities for
                               ■ Gathering and analysis of information about investment initiatives and                    productive      development        and      infrastructure
                                  instruments of productive development available in the Municipal and Regional            investments).
                                  Public Institutions.                                                                   ■ Portfolio programming of the integrated pipeline
                               ■ Review of the information from the BIP. The National Budget Law, and others,              (PIRDT and not- PIRDT).
                                  relative to infrastructure investments.
                               Specific objectives:                                                                      ■ The private financial returns of the productive units
                               ■ To determine the financial returns or contributions of the net investments to the         considering the additional “revenues? and/or ‘reduction
8. Financial evaluation of        increase in the income of the producers through the financial evaluation of the          in costs? resulting from the investment of the
business opportunities.           businesses associated to the “wished situation? of the subterritory and its              instruments of productive development and access to
                                  productive activities.                                                                   new markets.
                               ■ To prepare and evaluate the Integral Project in the subterritory building up the




                                                                                                                                                                                         36
                                     following flows:                                                                    ■ Indicators of financial returns NPV, IRT.
                                                  1. Development Investments
                                                  2. Operating costs 13                                                  Identification of the intangible benefits for the producers
                                                  3. Maintenance Costs                                                   which establish the difference of between “with? and
                                                  4. Reinvestments (reposition)                                          “without? project scenarios.
                                                  5. Adjustment of the project life-cycle                                ■ An electronic spread sheet allowing to simulate a most
                                                  6. Technological changes                                                   of the possible scenarios in the following situations:
                                  Recommended methodology:                                                                   o With and without project
                                  ■ In the financial evaluation the benefits or annual revenues come from the sales          o Adjustments in time
                                     of goods(products) or services and the costs or outlays from the acquisition of         o Macroeconomic scenarios: optimistic, realistic,
                                     inputs and the payment of the factors of production (factors that have to be paid             and pessimistic.
                                     and products that can be sold)                                                          o Changes in demand and supply.
                                  ■ The financial evaluation uses market prices to value the productive factors, it          o Technological changes.
                                     considers the direct effect of taxes and doesn’t consider positive or negative          o Etc
                                     externalities that the producer is not obligated to internalize (for instance
                                     environmental impacts).                                                             ■ Estimated increase in the income level of the producers
                                  ■ An evaluation period of eight to ten years is considered adequate taking into          in the subterritory.
                                     account the uncertainty in projecting the benefits and the costs of this type of
                                     subprojects.
                                  ■ If the consultant proposes a different evaluation period it has to be with a
                                     justification.
                                  ■ The outcome of this evaluation indicates the profitability from the point of view
                                     of the group of producers of the subterritory.
                                  Specific objectives:
                                  ■ To determine the economic returns or contribution of the net investments to the
                                     local economic growth through the social evaluation of the business associated
                                     with the “wished situation?.
                                  Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                         ■ Indicators of social returns
                                  ■ The social evaluation considers among its costs public and private investments;
                                     the positive and negative externalities derived from the production process and
9. Economic (social) evaluation                                                                                          ■ Plan of prioritized investments
                                     of the investments in infrastructure and identifies the possible intangible
of business opportunities.
                                     benefits.
                                                                                                                         ■ Recommendations about executing or not executing the
                                  ■ In the social evaluation the factors: foreign exchange, labor, discount rate and
                                                                                                                           portfolio of subprojects.
                                     the value of time are valued with social or shadow prices established by
                                     MIDEPLAN.
                                  ■ In the social evaluation the direct effect of taxes are not considered.
                                  ■ The indicators of economic returns are: NPV, IRT and B/C social.
                                  ■ Maximum evaluation period of eight to ten years is considered adequate given




                                                                                                                                                                                       37
                                     the uncertainties in the benefit and cost projections in this type of subprojects.
                                     If the consultant proposes a different period it has to be justified.
                                   ■ The outcome of this evaluation indicates the economic merits of the project
                                     from the point of view of all the population in the subterritory.



                                    Specific objectives:
                                    ■ Preparation and approval by CORE of a PMDT with a prioritized project
10. Preparation and approval of         portfolio. Implementation of the subprojects would support the sustainable          ■ Plan de Desarrollo Económico Local Territorial,
a PMDT proposal for the                 development of each of the subterritories.                                            PMDT
territory and subterritories.       Recommended methodology:                                                                ■ Presentation to CORE
                                    ■ Analysis and interpretation of the outcomes of the private and social
                                        evaluations.
                                     Specific objectives:
                                     ■ To transform the PMDT into an asset for the community which, with a sense
                                          of ownership will require an acceptable performance of the authorities for the
11. Territorial approval of the                                                                                             ■    Approved and socialized PMDT given to the
                                          successful implementation of the plan and also their commitment with the
PMDT.                                                                                                                            community.
                                          development of the productive activities that the investments are facilitating.
                                     Recommended methodology:
                                     ■ Workshops at the levels of local and territorial public institutions.
                                    Specific objectives:
                                    ■ To propose the logical design of the PMDT, to be approved by MIDEPLAN,
12. Definition of the MML and           with the definition of productive development objectives to be reached in the
                                                                                                                            ■ Logic Framework Matrix of the PMDT and the
definition of the base line for the     subterritory as a result of the implementation of the prioritized investments
                                                                                                                              corresponding base line.
PMDT.                                   portfolio
                                    Recommended methodology
                                    ■ A Logic Framework Matrix approach
                                    Specific objectives:
                                    ■ Formal inclusion of the PIRDT portfolio (prepared at the “profile? level) in the
                                                                                                                            ■ EBI entry for each infrastructure project in the project
                                        National Investments System together with the respective PMDT in a state of
                                                                                                                              portfolio to be financed by the PIRDT program.
13. Inclusion of the PIRDT              preparation ready to obtain RS for the design or implementation phase.
portfolio in the SIN.               Recommended methodology:
                                                                                                                            ■ Evaluation RS for the total of the integrated PIRDT
                                    ■ Computation system of the National Investments System.
                                                                                                                              portfolio.
                                    ■ Ficha EBI
                                    ■ Integral Methodology for the preparation and evaluation of subprojects




                                                                                                                                                                                         38
The change in the approach can be seen in the following tables of benefits and externalities, showing the benefits related to the productive activities (producer
surplus) while the consumer surpluses accruing to the population other than that involved in the project supported economic activities mostly appear as
“positive externalities?.

                                    Type of PIRDT investment              Type of effect on benefits               Type of effect on costs
                                                                     Increase in price due to product
                                                                     improvement
                                Accessibility                                                                Savings in transport costs
                                                                     Increased sales due to reduction of
                                                                     losses during transport
                                                                     Increased price due to better product
                                                                     quality                                 Cost increases due to payment of
                                Water availability
                                                                     Increased production due to better      quality water
                                                                     market access
                                                                     Increased production due to
                                                                     continuous energy supply
                                                                                                             Increased costs due to payment of
                                Energy availability                  Increase in production due to new
                                                                                                             energy of better quality
                                                                     technologies requiring continuous
                                                                     energy supply
                                                                     Increased production due to access
                                                                                                             Investments in equipment and
                                                                     to new markets.
                                Availability of telecommunications                                           training
                                                                     Increased production due to
                                                                                                             Increased costs of RRHH
                                                                     management improvements
                                                                     Possibility of producing for more       Cost increase (because of sanitation
                                Disposal of waste waters
                                                                     exigent markets                         tariff)




                                                                                                                                                              39
                                                                    Positive Externalities of the investments

                   Investment type                                                                                      Benefit type
Accessibility                                           •   Reduced travel time
Transport - inter-urban and urban                       •   Reduced vehicle operating costs (fuel, oil, tires, spare parts, etc.).
                                                        •   Reduced pollution through the reduction of suspended particles
                                                        •   All year accessibility through the elimination of problems such as flooding,
Accessibility
                                                        •   Reduced pedestrian’s accidents through the improvement of sidewalks.
Transport - Paving
                                                        •   Improvement of the neighborhood image
                                                        •   Increase in the value of the benefitted properties
                                                        •   Reduced costs of alternative water systems
Water Supply.
                                                        •   Benefits from increased water consumption
                                                        •   Increased family consumption of kilowatts/month.
                                                        •   Freeing resources used for the supply of substitute energy sources: batteries, gas, generators, etc.
Energy availability
                                                        •   Increased security in public ways
Rural Electricity
                                                        •   Increased social activity
                                                        •   Increased production
                                                        •   Introduction of new technologies in schools

Availability of telecommunications - Rural telephones        •    Savings in time and transport costs to neighboring locations to make or receive a telephone call
                                                        •   Increased communication for the recipient and nearby localities.
                                                        •   Reduced time and travel costs to make administrative or legal activities.
                                                        •   Savings from reduced telephone calls
                                                        •   Increased family income due to reduced intermediation
                                                        •   Increased productivity
Availability of telecommunications - Telecenters        •   Reduced time in obtaining medical diagnostics.
                                                        •   Increased access to educational information.
                                                        •   New business opportunities
                                                        •   Increased social and cultural interaction
                                                        •   Increased access to government programs
                                                        •   Preservation of public health
Waste waters disposition                                •   Mitigation of environmental damages
                                                        •   Improved town esthetics




                                                                                                                                                                     40
SAMPLE EONOMIC EVALUATION UNDER THE PIRDT.

What follows is an example of MIDEPLAN's economic and financial evaluations for investments
in the road sector at a cost of $ 1,379,482, in a rural water supply system at a cost of $ 419,731
and basic sewage at a cost of $ 259,056 in the subregions of Circuito Campesino, Ruta de las
Flores, Torre Dorada and Cuenca San Cristobal. The investments are expected to increase the
production and income derived from agricultural products in the region (particularly vegetables,
berries, production of honey, vineyards. forestry, flowers and poultry) and directly benefit 149
producers out of a labor population of 614. Based on the average current and potential
productivity of an agricultural unit (calculated as the minimum area necessary for the profitability
of a certain production), the financial evaluation yielded rates of return between 66% and 86%
with a discount rate of 10% and a project life of 14 years. The economic evaluation, which
includes the economic cost of the public investments, yielded rates of return ranging from 20%
to 36% when the discount rate is 8% and the life of the project is estimated at 14 year.

(j)       Subregions and Products


                  Oportunidad de    Unidad de la JH x unidad de Nº productores Cantidad x          Empleo por unidad        Total personas
    SUB -         Negocio (ON)          ON        la ON (año)       (unidad        Unidad      productiva (Conversión Nº empleadas tiempo
 TERRITORIO                                                     productiva) (*) productiva (*) pers. empl. en 1 año) (**) completo por un año

               1. Hortalizas        Ha.                  250.0       57             0.1                0.11                      6
               2. Cerezos           Ha.                  250.0       36             0.6                0.65                      23
  CIRCUITO
               3. Miel              Colmena                4.3       35             62                 1.16                      41
 CAMPESINO
               4. Viñas             Ha.                   50.0       17             8.6                1.86                      32
               5. Silvicultura      Ha.                   36.0       17             11                 1.71                      29
                                                                                                              Subtotal          131
               1. Hortalizas        Ha.                  250.0       36            0.1                 0.11                      4
               2. Miel              Colmena                4.3       35             62                 1.16                      41
               3. Frutillas         Ha.                  400.0       15            0.4                 0.69                      10
  RUTA LAS     4. Papas de Guarda   Ha.                   60.0       41            1.02                0.26                      11
   FLORES      5. Aves              Cabezas                3.6       12            282                 4.39                      53
               6. Flores            Ha.                  600.0       36            0.04                0.10                      4
               7. Viñas             Ha.                   50.0       20            8.6                 1.86                      37
               8. Silvicultura      Ha.                   36.0        6            9.4                 1.46                      9
                                                                                                              Subtotal          168
               1. Hortalizas        Ha.                  250.0       60            0.1                 0.11                      6
               2. Miel              Colmena                4.3       60             62                 1.16                      70
       TORRE   3. Frutillas         Ha.                  400.0       40            0.4                 0.69                      28
      DORADA   4. Papas de Guarda   Ha.                   54.0       50            1.02                0.24                      12
               5. Viñas             Ha.                   50.0       20            8.6                 1.86                      37
               6. Silvicultura      Ha.                   36.0        6            12.7                1.98                      12
                                                                                                              Subtotal          165
            1. Hortalizas           Ha.                  250.0       58            0.1                 0.11                      6
            2. Miel                 Colmena                4.3       25             62                 1.16                      29
            3. Frutillas            Ha.                  400.0       15            0.4                 0.69                      10
 CUENCA SAN 4. Cerezos              Ha.                  250.0       15            0.6                 0.65                      10
  CRISTOBAL 5. Aves                 Cabezas                3.6       20            282                 4.39                      88
            6. Ganadería Ovina      Ha.                    7.4        7            19.2                0.61                      4
            7. Ganadería Bovina     Ha.                    2.8        7             17                 0.21                      1

               8. Viñas             Ha.                    50.0      20             8.6                1.86                      37
                                                                                                        Subtotal                149
                                                                                             TOTAL TERRITORIO                   614




                                                                                                                                           40
(ii)                    Financial Evaluation

FLUJO DE CAJA PROYECTADO SITUACION ACTUAL
                                   0                          1                  2                  3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14

Ingresos totales                             1,306,505,918.6      1,312,779,049.4    1,328,461,876.3     1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,623,129,702.2    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    1,328,461,876.3    2,836,880,508.8
Egresos totales                                 657,125,490          680,850,986        678,184,437         690,534,803        682,928,822        740,839,909        685,564,591        688,200,360        692,154,014        692,154,014        692,154,014        692,154,014        692,154,014         692,154,014
INVERSIONES                      910,455,049        369,008                     0       150,637,050                    0       150,637,050                   0       150,637,050                   0       150,637,050                   0       150,637,050                   0       150,637,050                   0
FLUJO DE CAJA NETO              -910,455,049    679,514,958          661,628,682        523,123,488         667,909,646        518,156,117        923,757,413        515,396,466        670,353,807        508,497,341        666,214,332        508,497,341        666,214,332        508,497,341       2,245,528,640



   TIR                                 71% VAN PROM.              ISO PROM.          INV PROM           VTAS PROM.
   VAN                 10%    $ 4,125,304,167                      1,026,328,990                          2,036,391,394
Unidades Productivas                      190    21,712,127           5,401,732          4,791,869         10,717,849

FLUJO DE CAJA PROYECTADO SITUACION ACTUAL CON INFRAESTRUCTURA
                                   0           1           2                                        3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14

Ingresos totales                                1,436,102,203      1,443,002,647      1,460,253,756       1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,784,388,365      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      1,460,253,756      3,119,514,252
Egresos totales                                   657,403,049        681,128,546        678,461,996         690,812,362        683,206,381        741,117,468        685,842,150        688,477,919        692,431,573        692,431,573        692,431,573        692,431,573        692,431,573        692,431,573
INVERSIONES                      910,455,049          369,008                  0        150,637,050                   0        150,637,050                  0        150,637,050                  0        150,637,050                  0        150,637,050                  0        150,637,050                  0
FLUJO DE CAJA NETO              -910,455,049      814,911,663        797,682,184        660,818,981         805,605,140        655,851,611      1,092,304,629        653,091,960        808,049,301        646,192,834        803,909,826        646,192,834        803,909,826        646,192,834      2,541,155,565



   TIR                                 86%
   VAN                 10%    $ 5,195,220,283
Unidades Productivas                      190

FLUJO DE CAJA PROYECTADO SITUACION OPTIMIZADA
                                   0          1                                  2                  3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14

Ingresos totales                                1,871,538,980      1,891,425,332      1,867,533,829       1,936,694,604      2,029,417,448      2,252,556,353      2,101,045,054      2,139,899,627      2,157,648,590      2,280,209,879      2,325,944,943      2,205,107,762      2,309,639,879      3,832,379,846
Egresos totales                                   815,185,515        838,611,352        847,723,357         862,146,486        869,645,936        933,987,303        897,580,094        909,807,953        943,590,412        961,734,122        968,624,240        961,005,310        967,953,122        962,405,240
INVERSIONES                    1,549,962,560        1,604,108        117,923,400        189,577,550         159,687,528        197,498,800        136,020,255        206,038,800        178,902,528        222,024,879        156,353,400        225,253,800        194,888,607        225,253,800        156,353,400
FLUJO DE CAJA NETO            -1,549,962,560    1,104,322,578        978,830,438        869,253,870         957,859,037      1,007,499,530      1,238,128,588      1,044,305,189      1,100,595,036      1,038,658,864      1,216,742,107      1,185,274,047      1,098,526,895      1,168,905,305      2,841,161,403



   TIR                                 66%
   VAN                 10%    $ 6,705,842,561
Unidades Productivas                      190



FLUJO DE CAJA PROYECTADO SITUACION OPTIMIZADA CON INFRAESTRUCTURA
                                   0           1            2                                       3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14

Ingresos totales                                2,066,051,508      2,084,312,480      2,060,518,041       2,132,698,928      2,237,174,849      2,477,591,678      2,312,771,248      2,350,463,028      2,369,246,073      2,497,567,973      2,551,143,544      2,414,955,645      2,533,207,973      4,204,954,937
Egresos totales                                   815,447,651        838,873,489        847,985,494         862,408,623        869,908,072        934,249,440        897,842,231        910,070,089        943,852,549        961,996,259        968,886,377        961,267,447        968,215,259        962,667,377
INVERSIONES                    1,549,962,560        1,604,108        117,923,400        189,577,550         159,687,528        197,498,800        136,020,255        206,038,800        178,902,528        222,024,879        156,353,400        225,253,800        194,888,607        225,253,800        156,353,400
FLUJO DE CAJA NETO            -1,549,962,560    1,307,702,738      1,180,508,824      1,071,033,883       1,162,801,107      1,224,747,071      1,473,466,116      1,265,708,057      1,320,780,460      1,259,926,971      1,444,041,574      1,420,782,525      1,317,963,171      1,402,706,643      3,230,973,066



    TIR                                80%
    VAN              10%  $ 8,337,366,823
Unidades Productivas                  190
Total                 190
ON                    113
BENEFICIO PROMEDIO POR UNIDAD PRODUCTIVA
                                                    1                  2                  3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14             PRO MEDIO
             INGRESO ACTUAL                         6,876.35            6,909.36           6,991.90            6,991.90           6,991.90           8,542.79           6,991.90           6,991.90           6,991.90           6,991.90           6,991.90           6,991.90           6,991.90         14,930.95          7,655.6
             INGRESO ACTUAL C/INFRAEST              7,558.43            7,594.75           7,685.55            7,685.55           7,685.55           9,391.52           7,685.55           7,685.55           7,685.55           7,685.55           7,685.55           7,685.55           7,685.55         16,418.50          8,415.6
             M ARGEN ACTUAL                             3,576.4            3,482.3            2,753.3             3,515.3            2,727.1            4,861.9            2,712.6            3,528.2            2,676.3            3,506.4            2,676.3            3,506.4            2,676.3         11,818.6         3,858.4
             M ARGEN ACTUAL C/ INFRAEST                 4,289.0            4,198.3            3,478.0             4,240.0            3,451.9            5,749.0            3,437.3            4,252.9            3,401.0            4,231.1            3,401.0            4,231.1            3,401.0         13,374.5         4,652.6
             INCREMENTAL ACTUAL                          712.6              716.1              724.7               724.7              724.7              887.1              724.7              724.7              724.7              724.7              724.7              724.7              724.7             1,555.9        794.2
             INGRESO OPTIM IZADO                        9,850.2            9,954.9            9,829.1          10,193.1           10,681.1           11,855.6           11,058.1           11,262.6           11,356.0           12,001.1           12,241.8           11,605.8           12,156.0           20,170.4        11,729.7
             INGRESO OPTIM IZADO C/INFRA            10,874.0            10,970.1           10,844.8            11,224.7           11,774.6           13,040.0           12,172.5           12,370.9           12,469.7           13,145.1           13,427.1           12,710.3           13,332.7           22,131.3        12,892.0
             M ARGEN OPTIM IZADO                        5,812.2            5,151.7            4,575.0             5,041.4            5,302.6            6,516.5            5,496.3            5,792.6            5,466.6            6,403.9            6,238.3            5,781.7            6,152.1         14,953.5         6,334.6
             M ARGEN OPTIM IZADO C/ INFRA               6,882.6            6,213.2            5,637.0             6,120.0            6,446.0            7,755.1            6,661.6            6,951.5            6,631.2            7,600.2            7,477.8            6,936.6            7,382.7         17,005.1         7,550.1
             INCREMENTAL OPTIMIZADO                     1,070.4            1,061.5            1,062.0             1,078.6            1,143.4            1,238.6            1,165.3            1,158.9            1,164.6            1,196.3            1,239.5            1,154.9            1,230.5            2,051.6       1,215.4

COSTO PROMEDIO POR UNIDAD PRODUCTIVA
                                                    1                  2                  3                   4                  5                  6                  7                  8                  9                 10                 11                 12                 13                 14
             SITUACION ACTUAL                           3,460.5            3,583.4            4,362.2             3,634.4            4,387.2            3,899.2            4,401.1            3,622.1            4,435.7            3,642.9            4,435.7            3,642.9            4,435.7            3,642.9       5,558.6
             S.A. C/ INFRAESTRUCTURA                    3,462.0            3,584.9            4,363.7             3,635.9            4,388.6            3,900.6            4,402.5            3,623.6            4,437.2            3,644.4            4,437.2            3,644.4            4,437.2            3,644.4       5,560.6
             INCREMENTAL ACTUAL                             1.5                1.5                1.5                 1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5                1.5           2.0
             SITUACION OPTIM IZADA                      4,298.9            5,034.4            5,459.5             5,378.1            5,616.6            5,631.6            5,808.5            5,730.1            6,134.8            5,884.7            6,283.6            6,083.7            6,280.0            5,888.2       7,951.3
             S.O. C/ INFRAESTRUCTURA                    4,300.3            5,035.8            5,460.9             5,379.5            5,617.9            5,633.0            5,809.9            5,731.4            6,136.2            5,886.1            6,284.9            6,085.0            6,281.4            5,889.6       7,953.2
             INCREMENTAL POTENCIAL                          1.4                1.4                1.4                 1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4                1.4           1.9

INVERSION POR UNIDAD PRODUCTIVA
                                            0                 1                  2                  3                   4                 5                   6                 7                   8                 9                 10                11                  12                13                  14
SA C/INFRAESTRUCTURA                4,791.87              1.94                -               792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                -               792.83                 -
SO C/INFRAESTRUCTURA                 8,157.70              8.44             620.65             997.78              840.46          1,039.47              715.90          1,084.41              941.59          1,168.55              822.91          1,185.55           1,025.73           1,185.55              822.91
SITUACION ACTUAL                    4,791.87              1.94                -               792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                 -              792.83                -               792.83                 -
SITUACION OPTIMIZADA                8,157.70              8.44             620.65             997.78              840.46          1,039.47              715.90          1,084.41              941.59          1,168.55              822.91          1,185.55           1,025.73           1,185.55              822.91




(iii)                   Economic Evaluation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41
INDICADOR DE PRIORIZACIÓN INFRAESTRUCTURA RURAL PIRDT



                                                                                     Monto (miles de pesos)
       TOTAL INVERSIÓN PIRDT                                                             1,757,012.0
       Ingreso 1er año con oportunidades de negocio (*)                                     1,070.4
       Ingreso 1er año sin oportunidades de negocio (*)                                      712.6
       (*)Corresponde ingreso incremental por aumento de ventas producto del menjoramiento de la infraestructura rural (inversiones PIRDT ).
       Como margen, incorpora los costos.



       1. Análisis por proyecto de Infraestructura Rural
                                                                                                                       VALOR
                                                                                                                                                Benef.      Benef.
                                                                                         VALOR                       INVERSION Beneficiarios                                                            VAN SOCIAL
 Nº             NOMBRE PROYECTO PERFIL IRDT                                                                                                  Directos con Directos sin                                                           TIR              Relación B/C
                                                                                     INVERSION (M$)                  CORREGIDA Directos (*)                                                             (8% , 10 años)
                                                                                                                                               ON (**)        ON
                                                                                                                        (M$)
       Mejoramiento Camino                                                                            1,078,637.0          1,063,487.1
 1     Barrancas Juntas 2,76 km                                                                         147,764.0             145,688.6                      51                26                  26        262,850.4                  31.6%         2.80              Barrancas Juntas                        51
 2     Santa Lastenia 7,45 km                                                                           327,432.0             322,833.1                      23                23                  0        -100,199.5                   2.5%         0.69              Lastenia                                 1
 3     Camino Ateuco 3,654 km                                                                           438,749.0             432,586.6                      35                35                  0          -93,796.4                  4.3%         0.78              Ateuco                                  19
 4     Acceso Puente Vegas de Diuca (500 m.)                                                              43,761.0               43,146.4                    36                18                  18        245,234.1                  75.1%         6.68              Vegas de Diuca                          36
 5     El Carril o Ruta de Las Flores 1,72 km                                                           120,931.0             119,232.5                      43                22                  22        225,222.0                  32.6%         2.89              La Calle                                43
       Abastecimiento de agua potable                                                                  443,265.0             431,877.7
 6     Varios sectores                                                                                  443,265.0             431,877.7                   113                  113                 0         661,930.5                  28.3%         2.53
       Saneamiento básico                                                                              235,110.0             230,260.9
 7     Varios sectores                                                                                  235,110.0             230,260.9                   108                  108                 0         815,148.7                  51.0%         4.54
                                       TOTAL                                              1,757,012.0                 1,725,625.6
       (*) Beneficiarios estimados de acuerdo a la población por localidad

       (**) Beneficiarios estimados de acuerdo al número máximo de beneficiarios con proyectos de infraestructura


       VAN SOCIAL POR PROYECTO                                                           Inversión (año 0)                 año 1                  año 2              año 3              año 4               año 5                año 6                año 7                   año 8                   año 9             año 10              año 11               año 12             año 13            año 14
       Ingresos Incrementales (con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                         1,070.4            1,061.5            1,062.0            1,078.6                 1,143.4           1,238.6                 1,165.3              1,158.9                 1,164.6           1,196.3                 1,239.5         1,154.9            1,230.5           2,051.6
       Ingresos Incrementales (sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                           712.6              716.1              724.7              724.7                   724.7             887.1                   724.7                724.7                   724.7             724.7                   724.7           724.7              724.7           1,555.9
       PROYECTO 1
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                  25.5                     25.5               25.5               25.5                 25.5                 25.5                  25.5                       25.5               25.5                25.5                25.5                25.5              25.5               25.5
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                  25.5                     25.5               25.5               25.5                 25.5                 25.5                  25.5                       25.5               25.5                25.5                25.5                25.5              25.5               25.5
       Flujo caja 1                                                                         -145,688.6                         45,467                    45,327             45,561             45,986               47,637               54,206                48,195                     48,031             48,177              48,986              50,088              47,931            49,859             91,993
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            262,850.4                   408,539.0
       PROYECTO 2
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   23                        23                 23                 23                   23                   23                    23                         23                 23                  23                  23                  23                23                 23
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                    0                         0                  0                  0                    0                    0                     0                          0                  0                   0                   0                   0                 0                  0
       Flujo caja 2                                                                          -322,833.1                        24,620                    24,414             24,426             24,809               26,298               28,488                26,801                     26,654             26,785              27,515              28,509              26,563            28,302             47,188
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            -100,199.5                  222,633.5
       PROYECTO 3
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   35                        35                 35                 35                   35                   35                    35                         35                 35                  35                  35                  35                35                 35
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                    0                         0                  0                  0                    0                    0                     0                          0                  0                   0                   0                   0                 0                  0
       Flujo caja 3                                                                          -432,586.6                        37,465                    37,151             37,170             37,752               40,019               43,352                40,785                     40,560             40,760              41,871              43,383              40,422            43,069             71,807
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                             -93,796.4                  338,790.1
       PROYECTO 4
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   18                        18                 18                 18                   18                   18                    18                         18                 18                  18                  18                  18                18                 18
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   18                        18                 18                 18                   18                   18                    18                         18                 18                  18                  18                  18                18                 18
       Flujo caja 4                                                                          -43,146.4                         32,095                    31,996             32,161             32,460               33,626               38,263                34,020                     33,905             34,007              34,578              35,356              33,834            35,194             64,936
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            245,234.1                   288,380.4
       PROYECTO 5
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   22                        22                 22                 22                   22                   22                    22                         22                 22                  22                  22                  22                22                 22
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   22                        22                 22                 22                   22                   22                    22                         22                 22                  22                  22                  22                22                 22
       Flujo caja 6                                                                         -119,232.5                         38,335                    38,217             38,414             38,772               40,165               45,703                40,635                     40,497             40,620              41,302              42,231              40,412            42,038             77,563
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            225,222.0                   344,454.4
       PROYECTO 6
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   113                      113                113                113                 113                   113                   113                        113                113                 113                113               113                113               113
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                     0                        0                  0                  0                   0                     0                     0                          0                  0                   0                  0                 0                  0                 0
       Flujo caja 6                                                                         -431,877.7                         120,958                  119,946            120,006            121,887             129,205               139,964               131,676                    130,952            131,596             135,183            140,066           130,507            139,050           231,835
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            661,930.5                  1,093,808.2
       PROYECTO 7
       Beneficiarios(con oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                   108                      108                108                108                 108                   108                   108                        108                108                 108                108               108                108               108
       Beneficiarios(sin oportunidad de negocio)                                                                                     0                        0                  0                  0                   0                     0                     0                          0                  0                   0                  0                 0                  0                 0
       Flujo caja 7                                                                         -230,260.9                         115,606                  114,638            114,696            116,493             123,488               133,771               125,850                    125,158            125,773             129,202            133,868           124,732            132,898           221,577
       VAN SOCIAL (8% , 14 años)                                                            815,148.7                  1,045,409.6




       2. Análisis por subterritorio
                                                                                         Nº beneficiarios
       Beneficiarios con oportunidades de negocio (**)                                          113
       Beneficiarios sin oportunidades de negocio                                               133
       Total beneficiarios Potenciales                                                          246
       (**) Beneficiarios estimados de acuerdo al número máximo de beneficiarios con proyectos de infraestructura

       Evaluación social Sub-territorio CON proyectos de Infraestructura Rural
                                                                                                  0                          1                      2                  3                  4                   5                    6                    7                          8                    9                 10                  11                   12                 13                14
       Ingresos
       Ingresos con oportunidades de negocio por unidad productiva                                                            10,874.0                10,970.1          10,844.8            11,224.7            11,774.6             13,040.0              12,172.5               12,370.9                12,469.7           13,145.1             13,427.1           12,710.3           13,332.7          22,131.3
       Ingresos sin oportunidades de negocio por unidad productiva                                                             7,558.4                 7,594.8           7,685.5             7,685.5             7,685.5              9,391.5               7,685.5                7,685.5                 7,685.5            7,685.5              7,685.5            7,685.5            7,685.5          16,418.5
       Beneficios con oportunidades de negocio                                                                             1,228,756.9             1,239,617.4       1,225,466.0         1,268,394.6         1,330,530.3          1,473,515.1           1,375,490.3            1,397,907.0             1,409,077.9        1,485,395.7          1,517,259.1        1,436,263.1        1,506,592.1       2,500,841.6
       Beneficios sin oportunidades de negocio                                                                             1,005,271.5             1,010,101.9       1,022,177.6         1,022,177.6         1,022,177.6          1,249,071.9           1,022,177.6            1,022,177.6             1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6          1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6       2,183,660.0
       Total Beneficios                                                                                                2,234,028.5             2,249,719.3        2,247,643.6        2,290,572.3         2,352,707.9          2,722,586.9          2,397,667.9             2,420,084.6             2,431,255.6        2,507,573.3         2,539,436.7          2,458,440.7        2,528,769.7       4,684,501.6
       Egresos
       Costos de operación por unidad (sin oportunidades de negocio)                                                            3,462.0               3,584.9            4,363.7            3,635.9              4,388.6              3,900.6               4,402.5                3,623.6                 4,437.2            3,644.4              4,437.2            3,644.4            4,437.2           3,644.4
       Costos de operación por unidad(con oportunidades de negocio)                                                             4,300.3               5,035.8            5,460.9            5,379.5              5,617.9              5,633.0               5,809.9                5,731.4                 6,136.2            5,886.1              6,284.9            6,085.0            6,281.4           5,889.6
       Costos con oportunidades de negocio                                                                                    485,930.8             569,042.4          617,077.0          607,878.2            634,826.2            636,528.8             656,518.7              647,652.1              693,390.3           665,123.7            710,199.2         687,608.6          709,800.0         665,522.9
       Costos sin oportunidades de negocio                                                                                    460,440.4             476,790.0          580,369.3          483,568.7            583,690.4            518,782.2             585,535.4              481,934.5              590,148.0           484,702.1            590,148.0         484,702.1          590,148.0         484,702.1
       Costos de mantención obras (5% inversión)                                                                               87,850.6              87,850.6           87,850.6           87,850.6             87,850.6             87,850.6              87,850.6               87,850.6                87,850.6           87,850.6             87,850.6          87,850.6           87,850.6          87,850.6
       Costos de mejoramiento obras (10% inversión a partir del año 5)                                                                                                                                         175,701.2            175,701.2             175,701.2              175,701.2              175,701.2           175,701.2            175,701.2         175,701.2          175,701.2         175,701.2
       Total Egresos                                                                                                   1,034,221.8             1,133,682.9        1,285,296.9        1,179,297.5         1,482,068.4          1,418,862.8          1,505,606.0             1,393,138.5             1,547,090.1        1,413,377.6         1,563,899.0          1,435,862.5        1,563,499.9       1,413,776.8
       Utilidad antes de impuestos                                                                                     1,199,806.7             1,116,036.3         962,346.7         1,111,274.8          870,639.5           1,303,724.1           892,061.9              1,026,946.1              884,165.5         1,094,195.7          975,537.7           1,022,578.2         965,269.9        3,270,724.8
       Inversión PIRDT                                                                      -1,757,012
       Inversión privada                                                                    -1,290,794                     1,212                 70,133            218,195             94,972              222,906              80,896              227,985                  106,400                237,492             92,989             239,413              115,907            239,413            92,989
       Inversiones públicas en Fomento Productivo                                           -1,331,096
       Flujo de caja para inversión social                                                  -4,378,902                 1,198,594.3             1,045,902.9        744,152.0          1,016,302.7          647,733.8           1,222,827.8           664,077.1               920,546.2              646,673.2          1,001,206.5         736,125.0            906,670.8          725,857.2         3,177,735.7

       Indicadores evaluación social Sub-territorio CON proyectos de Infraestructura Rural
       VAN SOCIAL (8%, 14 años)                                                                 $ 3,873,400.69         14,654,405
       RENTABILIDAD SOCIAL TIR, 14 años                                                        21%


       Evaluación social Sub-territorio CON proyectos de Infraestructura Rural SIN PERFILES CON INDICADOR NEGATIVO
                                                                                                  0                          1                      2                  3                  4                   5                    6                    7                          8                    9                 10                  11                   12                 13                14
       Ingresos
       Ingresos con oportunidades de negocio por unidad productiva                                                            10,874.0                10,970.1          10,844.8            11,224.7            11,774.6             13,040.0              12,172.5               12,370.9                12,469.7           13,145.1             13,427.1           12,710.3           13,332.7          22,131.3
       Ingresos sin oportunidades de negocio por unidad productiva                                                             7,558.4                 7,594.8           7,685.5             7,685.5             7,685.5              9,391.5               7,685.5                7,685.5                 7,685.5            7,685.5              7,685.5            7,685.5            7,685.5          16,418.5
       Beneficios con oportunidades de negocio                                                                             1,228,756.9             1,239,617.4       1,225,466.0         1,268,394.6         1,330,530.3          1,473,515.1           1,375,490.3            1,397,907.0             1,409,077.9        1,485,395.7          1,517,259.1        1,436,263.1        1,506,592.1       2,500,841.6
       Beneficios sin oportunidades de negocio                                                                             1,005,271.5             1,010,101.9       1,022,177.6         1,022,177.6         1,022,177.6          1,249,071.9           1,022,177.6            1,022,177.6             1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6          1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6        1,022,177.6       2,183,660.0
       Total Beneficios                                                                                                2,234,028.5             2,249,719.3        2,247,643.6        2,290,572.3         2,352,707.9          2,722,586.9          2,397,667.9             2,420,084.6             2,431,255.6        2,507,573.3         2,539,436.7          2,458,440.7        2,528,769.7       4,684,501.6
       Egresos
       Costos de operación por unidad (sin oportunidades de negocio)                                                           3,462.0                3,584.9            4,363.7            3,635.9              4,388.6              3,900.6               4,402.5                3,623.6                 4,437.2            3,644.4              4,437.2            3,644.4            4,437.2           3,644.4
       Costos de operación por unidad(con oportunidades de negocio)                                                            4,300.3                5,035.8            5,460.9            5,379.5              5,617.9              5,633.0               5,809.9                5,731.4                 6,136.2            5,886.1              6,284.9            6,085.0            6,281.4           5,889.6
       Costos con oportunidades de negocio                                                                                   485,930.8              569,042.4          617,077.0          607,878.2            634,826.2            636,528.8             656,518.7              647,652.1              693,390.3           665,123.7            710,199.2         687,608.6          709,800.0         665,522.9
       Costos sin oportunidades de negocio                                                                                   460,440.4              476,790.0          580,369.3          483,568.7            583,690.4            518,782.2             585,535.4              481,934.5              590,148.0           484,702.1            590,148.0         484,702.1          590,148.0         484,702.1
       Costos de mantención obras (5% inversión)                                                                              87,850.6               87,850.6           87,850.6           87,850.6             87,850.6             87,850.6              87,850.6               87,850.6                87,850.6           87,850.6             87,850.6          87,850.6           87,850.6          87,850.6
       Costos de mejoramiento obras (10% inversión a partir del año 5)                                                             0.0                      0                  0                  0            175,701.2            175,701.2             175,701.2              175,701.2              175,701.2           175,701.2            175,701.2         175,701.2          175,701.2         175,701.2
       Total Egresos                                                                                                   1,034,221.8             1,133,682.9        1,285,296.9        1,179,297.5         1,482,068.4          1,418,862.8          1,505,606.0             1,393,138.5             1,547,090.1        1,413,377.6         1,563,899.0          1,435,862.5        1,563,499.9       1,413,776.8
       Utilidad antes de impuestos                                                                                     1,199,806.7             1,116,036.3         962,346.7         1,111,274.8          870,639.5           1,303,724.1           892,061.9              1,026,946.1              884,165.5         1,094,195.7          975,537.7           1,022,578.2         965,269.9        3,270,724.8
       Inversión PIRDT                                                                       -990,831
       Inversión privada                                                                    -1,290,794                     1,212                 70,133            218,195             94,972              222,906              80,896              227,985                  106,400                237,492             92,989             239,413              115,907            239,413            92,989
       Inversiones públicas en Fomento Productivo                                           -1,331,096
       Flujo de caja para inversión social                                                  -3,612,721                 1,198,594.3             1,045,902.9        744,152.0          1,016,302.7          647,733.8           1,222,827.8           664,077.1               920,546.2              646,673.2          1,001,206.5         736,125.0            906,670.8          725,857.2         3,177,735.7

       Indicadores evaluación social Sub-territorio CON proyectos de Infraestructura Rural
       VAN SOCIAL (8%, 14 años)                                                                 $ 4,639,581.69         14,654,405               766,181
       RENTABILIDAD SOCIAL TIR, 14 años                                                        26%




       Evaluación social Sub-territorio SIN proyectos de Infraestructura Rural
                                                                                                  0                          1                      2                  3                  4                   5                    6                    7                          8                    9                 10                  11                   12                 13                14
       Ingresos

       Ingresos sin oportunidades de negocio por unidad productiva                                                             6,876.3                 6,909.4           6,991.9             6,991.9             6,991.9              8,542.8               6,991.9                6,991.9                 6,991.9            6,991.9              6,991.9            6,991.9            6,991.9          14,931.0
       Beneficios sin oportunidades de negocio                                                                             1,485,290.9             1,492,422.5       1,510,251.4         1,510,251.4         1,510,251.4          1,845,242.2           1,510,251.4            1,510,251.4             1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4          1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4       3,225,085.2
       Total Beneficios                                                                                                1,485,290.9             1,492,422.5        1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4         1,510,251.4          1,845,242.2          1,510,251.4             1,510,251.4             1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4         1,510,251.4          1,510,251.4        1,510,251.4       3,225,085.2
       Egresos
       Costos de operación (sin oportunidades de negocio)                                                                      3,460.5               3,583.4            4,362.2            3,634.4               4,387.2              3,899.2               4,401.1                3,622.1               4,435.7             3,642.9              4,435.7           3,642.9            4,435.7             3,642.9
                                                                                                                             747,467.4             774,020.1          942,239.2          785,029.0             947,632.8            842,218.0             950,629.2              782,375.1             958,120.4           786,869.8            958,120.4         786,869.8          958,120.4          786,869.8
       Total Egresos                                                                                                    747,467.4              774,020.1          942,239.2          785,029.0            947,632.8            842,218.0            950,629.2               782,375.1              958,120.4          786,869.8           958,120.4            786,869.8          958,120.4          786,869.8
       Utilidad antes de impuestos                                                                                      737,823.5              718,402.4          568,012.2          725,222.4            562,618.6           1,003,024.2           559,622.2               727,876.2              552,131.0          723,381.6           552,131.0            723,381.6          552,131.0         2,438,215.4
       Inversión PIRDT                                                                           0
       Inversión privada                                                                     -910,455.0                    369.0                   0.0             150,637.1             0.0              150,637.1               0.0               150,637.1                      0.0              150,637.1             0.0              150,637.1               0.0             150,637.1            0.0
       Inversiones públicas en Fomento Productivo                                                0
       Flujo de caja para inversión social                                                   -910,455                   737,454.5              718,402.4          417,375.2          725,222.4            411,981.6           1,003,024.2           408,985.1               727,876.2              401,494.0          723,381.6           401,494.0            723,381.6          401,494.0         2,438,215.4

       Indicadores evaluación social Sub-territorio SIN proyectos de Infraestructura Rural




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42
                                      Annex 4
             Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
             Names                              Title                  Unit
Lending
Fabio Arjona                    Consultant                            LCSEG
Philippe J-P. Durand            Program Coordinator                   AFTEG
                                                                      LCSFP-
Ana Ines Fernandez Frank        Consultant
                                                                       HIS
Estanislao Gacitua-Mario        Lead Social Development Specialist    LCSSO
Aurelio Menendez                Sector Manager                        LCSTR
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg     Lead Counsel                          LEGES
Pia Peeters                     Senior Social Development Specialist  AFTCS
Jaime A. Roman                  Consultant                           QLP - HIS
Jennifer J. Sara                Sector Manager                        EASVS
Paul Edwin Sisk                 Lead Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Eloy Eduardo Vidal              Consultant                            TWICT

Supervision/ICR
 Ana Silvia Aguilera            Consultant                           LCSTR
 Luis Alfonso Alvestegui
                                Consultant                           LCSTR
Justiniano
 Daniel Jorge Arguindegui       Procurement Specialist               LCSPT
 Antonio Leonardo Blasco        Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
 Alvaro J. Covarrubias          Consultant                           LCSTR
 Philippe J-P. Durand           Program Coordinator                  AFTEG
 Juan Gaviria                   Sector Leader                        AFTTR
 Ana Maria Grofsmacht           Procurement Specialist               LCSPT
 Jose Luis Irigoyen             Director                              TWI
 Andres Mac Gaul                Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
 Aurelio Menendez               Sector Manager                       LCSTR
 Marta Elena Molares- Halberg   Lead Counsel                         LEGES
 Roberto Munoz                  Consultant                           LCSHD
 Juan Navas-Sabater             Lead ICT Policy Specialist           TWICT
 Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge       Senior Infrastructure Economist      AFTTR
 Juan D. Quintero               Consultant                           SASDE
 Mirtha Pokorny                 Consultant                           LCSTR
 Cecilia Corvalan               Senior Transport Economist           LCSTR
 Veronica Raffo                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist     LCSTR
 Francisco Rodriguez            Procurement Specialist               LCSPT
 Alejandro Roger Solanot        Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
 Daniel Tolchinsky              Consultant                           LCSTR
 Raul Torres                    Consultant                           LCSTR
 Raul Tolmos                    Environmental Specialist             LCSEN
 Jean-Jacques Verdeaux          Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
 Alonso Zarzar Casis            Sr Social Scientist                  LCSSO
 Jose Vicente Zevallos          Sr Social Development Specialist     LCSSO
Ana Lucia Nieto                 Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM

                                                                                 43
Efrain Jimenez            Consultant                            LCSUW
Arturo Muente Kunigami    Senior ICT Policy Specialist          TWICT

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
  FY03                                          3.75                         27.82
  FY04                                         23.49                        177.96
  FY05                                         16.13                        130.42
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                                        0.00
                          Total:                                            336.20
  Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                        0.00
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                          1.48                         11.51
  FY06                                         10.85                         50.71
  FY07                                         13.71                         71.61
  FY08                                         13.31                        119.99
  FY09                                         22.64                        121.52
  FY10                                         22.06                        100.06
  FY11                                         16.02                         99.06
  FY12                                         12.51                         69.05
                          Total:              113.55                        643.50




                                                                                            44
                                               Annex 5
                                      Beneficiary Survey Results

In order to assess the results of the subprojects included in the First Generation of PMDTs, a
survey was undertaken for a sample of road and water supply subprojects. The size of the sample
was 22 for roads, and 12 for water.

It is important to note that these PMDTs were developed prior to the approved methodology.
Since the PMDTs do not reflect the methodology, it was agreed that no impact evaluation will be
carried out for those subprojects. In order to assess the results of the portfolio, it was decided to
include some surveys in the reports prepared by the regions concerning the closing of First
Generation PMDTS. Questionnaires were prepared jointly by SUBDERE and the Bank. Surveys
were undertaken by UGRs, at the local level.

A summary of the main findings is presented in the following tables.

                         Summary of Findings from Survey – Road Subprojects
Size of the sample (Number of subprojects with completed survey)                  22
Type of intervention: Interventions within the sample were mostly road improvements. Some cases
included paving. Some periodic maintenance activities were also included.
Beneficiaries per project                                                         Average: 741
                                                                                  Max: 3,200
                                                                                  Min: 80
Comment: Given the difference in the amount of beneficiaries among regions, it
is recommended that a unified criterion for determining this indicator is defined
among regional and central level.
Unitary Cost                                                                      Average:
                                                                                  US$86,000/km
Length                                                                            Average: 9.5 km
                                                                                  Max: 28 km
                                                                                  Min: 2.4 km
NOTE: The project also included rehabilitation/construction of new bridges.
Even though one bridge was included in the sample, it was not taken into
account, in order to have some homogeneity in the data.
Productive Activities:

Main activities reported were agriculture, livestock, fishing, commerce and tourism
Impacts identified by beneficiaries:
Positive
     • Decrease in travel time
     • Improved connectivity
     • Increase in frequency of transport services (example: from 1 daily to 1 every 45 minutes)
     • Increase in tourism
     • Products are not damaged by road condition (production can be sold at better prices)
Negative
     • Increase in traffic (and more damage to the road. In some cases littering was also reported)
Maintenance:
Roads are either “enroladas? or not. Under the first classification, roads are under the jurisdiction of
Vialidad (and their maintenance is provided through different programs within the institution). When roads
are? no enroladas? there is no commitment from Vialidad to undertake maintenance activities.
Nevertheless, it was agreed that for project purposes, all rehabilitated/improved roads would be treated as
“enroladas?.



                                                                                                         45
Even though the project envisaged the modality of Microenterprises for project maintenance, the concept
was not “bought? by Vialidad. In the future it could be interesting to visit countries in the area where the
ME is currently working (Colombia, Peru for example).

                      Summary of Findings from Survey – Water Subprojects
Size of the sample (Number of with completed survey)                   12
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE SYSTEMS
Number of Connections                                                  Average: 245
                                                                       Min: 88
                                                                       Max: 496

Beneficiaries per project (assuming one family per connection and 5 people          1,225 people per project
by family)
Average cost                                                                        US$737,500
                                                                                    (US$3,000/connection)
WATER COMMITEES
Composition:                                                                        Average: 6 people
                                                                                    (of which 2 are women)
                                                                                    Max: 10 people
                                                                                    Min: 3 people
Women account for one third of the water committees reported in the sample
Duration: Water committees are regulated by Law. They are elected for 2 year 2 years
period.
Technical Support: Water Committees are supposed to get technical support from the Unidades Tecnicas
in each area. According to the interviews, the quality of the technical support varies depending on the
budget allocation from the DOH to those Unidades Tecnicas. The support includes fixing tariffs and
operational support.
Physical characteristics of the systems: (i) Source of water: wells; (ii) Micrometers: all but one project
have micrometers for each connection; (iii) systems work 24 hours per day, 365 days per year (all but one
that works for 8 hours per day, 365 days per year)
Sanitation System: None of the locations included in the sample had a sanitation system
Water Quality                                                                        1 or 2 depending on the
Number of Operators                                                                  size of the system

Mechanism for water treatment                                                       Yes (all the cases)

Bacteriological test                                                                Average is 3 tests per
                                                                                    year
Use of Water for Productive Purposes                                                Average: 30%
                                                                                    Max: 50%
                                                                                    Min 5%
Activities reported: agriculture and tourism (restaurants and lodging)
Average Cost per Month                                                              CHIL$4,200
                                                                                    (US$8.6/month)
The structure of the tariff is fixed by the Unidad Tecnica. There is usually a
fixed cost (between CHIL$1,200 and CHIL$2,500), and then a variable cost
depending upon consumption.

Average Income per Connection per Month:                                            CHIL$ 4,626
                                                                                    (US$9.6/month)

Average Expenditure per Connection per Month:                                       CHIL$3,610
                                                                                    (US$7.5/month)

Based on the figures above, all water committees reported having enough funds

                                                                                                               46
to undertake maintenance activities
Impacts on Quality of Life and Health reported by Beneficiaries
     • Users’ perception about water quality: good
     • Beneficiaries reported to have less gastrointestinal diseases
     • Not all families are benefiting from the system. If the family was not included in the project, they
         need to wait a long time before being considered
     • More time since they do not need to go to look for water
Social Impacts reported by Beneficiaries
     • Having access to water allowed some business to have sanitary permits, opening the door for
         improving commercialization (even exports)
     • Increase in production
Environmental Impacts reported by Beneficiaries
     • Users’ perception is that there is no negative environmental impact associated to the project
     • Users reported no information regarding plans to have a more efficient water consumption
         structure (this is an opportunity for future operations)




                                                                                                         47
                                                           Annex 6
                                            Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


A workshop took place between May 14 and 15, 2012 in Santiago in order to work with
representatives from UGRs from all regions involved in the program to assess the performance of
the project from their perspective. The following presentation summarizes the views and opinion
of the regions with respect the project, its main achievements, problems, and challenges in the
future.

In addition to this collective presentation that was prepared during the workshop, each Region
presented a brief report, which can be found in the project files.

                                                                                                 Introducción

                                                                           Los días 14 y 15 de Mayo se reunieron representantes de
                                                                           SUBDERE, de las UGRs y del Banco Mundial, con el fin de
                                                                           llevar a cabo un taller para conocer las opiniones de las regiones
                                                                           en relación con el PIRDT. Esta labor se enmarca dentro de las
                                                                           actividades que se han realizado en el marco de la elaboración
                                                                           del informe de cierre y de resultados del proyecto, el cual debe
                                                                           ser presentado al directorio del Banco antes del 30 de Junio de
                                                                           2012.
                       JORNADA DE TRABAJO                                  Cada una de las regiones realizó una presentación. La
                                                                           compilación de las mismas se encuentra en los archivos del
                Informe de Cierre de Proyecto                              Proyecto.

                                                                           El presente documento presenta una síntesis de los aspectos
         PIRDT – SUBDERE- BANCO MUNDIAL                                    discutidos. Este documento fue validado con las regiones en la
                                                                           jornada antes mencionada

                         SANTIAGO, MAYO DE 2012
                                                                      1                                                                             2




                            Generalidades                                       PIRDT una Percepción Regional
      ¿ QUE ES EL PIRDT ?                                                   El PIRDT como instrumento potenciador de las definiciones de

       Instrumento de inversión de carácter Regional que nace de un          las Estrategias Regionales de Desarrollo (ERD 2002-2006), se
       acuerdo de cooperación entre el estado de Chile y el Banco            percibe como:
       Mundial, firmado en el año 2005.
                                                                              •Crítico, al reconocer que el modelo metodológico tradicional no
        SU OBJETIVO
                                                                              permite realizar inversiones zonas que lo requieren de forma
        Apoyar a las comunidades rurales pobres, potenciando su               urgente.
        desarrollo productivo y social en forma sostenible. Además:
                                                                              • Innovativo, planteando soluciones participativas, territoriales e
        • Reforzar una visión territorial de desarrollo                       integrales.
        • Apoyar la conexión de todos los instrumentos de planificación       • Creativo, recoge e integra diversas experiencias y las proyecta
        territorial.                                                          para que puedan ser replicadas en lugares de similares
        • Incorporar la dimensión territorial en los procesos de gestión      condiciones.
        regional y local.
                                                                      3                                                                                 4
        • Fortalecer la coordinación pública-privada




                                                                                                                                                            48
          El PIRDT en la Agenda Pública                                                         PMDT             Planes Marco de Desarrollo Territorial

    La incorporación del PIRDT a la Agenda Pública Regional                               Producto tangible del PIRDT
    implica:
                                                                                           Entrega a Comunidad, Municipios, Institucionalidad Publica y
    • Compromiso de las autoridades políticas                                              Gobierno Regional, un Instrumento de Planificación que posee:
    • Involucramiento de los sectores                                                     • Caracterización del Subterritorio, Productiva y del Capital Social
                                                                                          • Una Visión construida y validada por comunidad y actores públicos
    Para su ejecución necesita                                                            • Contrastando la caracterización y la visión del subterritorio, se
    • Una campaña de difusión clara respecto de los productos                               determinan las brechas existentes.
                                                                                          • Una Cartera de perfiles de proyectos de Infraestructura e ideas de
    que se quieren lograr                                                                   Fomento Productivo
                                                                                          • Evaluación económica y social, que determina “valor? del
                                                                                            subterritorio.
                                                                                          • Una matriz de Marco Lógico y un Plan de Gestión del PMDT, para
                                                                                            establecer los controles de la inversión
               EL PIRDT, SE INSTALA EN EL IMAGINARIO COLECTIVO,
               COMO UN PROPUESTA A SER APOYADA Y MEJORADA                                 Instrumento que articula, en un espacio territorial determinado,
                                                                                             la inversión generada desde el resto de los instrumentos de
                                                                                                        planificación (PLADECOs, PDTs, ERD)
                                                                                5                                                                                         6




                                   PMDT                                                                 PIRDT – PMDT - RESUMEN

Permite
 Focalizar Programas de Fomento Productivo, con recursos PIR y FNDR
  de libre disposición, con instituciones como SERCOTEC y FOSIS.                               A modo de corolario
 Levantar iniciativas en rubros específicos INDAP (papas, quesos, flores).
 Orientar programas CORFO, como los (PEL), con información PMDT los
  municipios realicen los requerimiento pertinentes .
                                                                                               • PIRDT una iniciativa que consolido una metodología denominada
                                                                                                 PMDT .
Para el Éxito del PMDT                                                                         • PIRDT Programa, que potencio tema territorial y necesidad de
    La elección de la Consultora es primordial                                                  asumirlo
    La presencia y participación Municipal, es clave                                          • PMDT Instrumento de Planificación no solo para la institución que
    La presencia en terreno de la UGR es absolutamente necesaria
    disposición de los actores públicos                                                         lo realice permite a otros órganos de la institucionalidad publica
                                                                                                 nutrirse de el, para desarrollar programas u otras iniciativas
Conflictos                                                                                     • PMDT, Metodología perfectible, su aplicación práctica definirá las
 Agenda Municipal propia                                                                         mejoras
 Indiferencia de las Unidades Técnicas,




                                                                                     7                                                                                                8




                                   PMDT                                                                                 LOGROS PIRDT
                                                                                              • Quizá el logro más importante del programa ha sido crear una nueva
Permite                                                                                          cultura para desarrollar proyectos en zonas rurales. Esto permite llegar a
 Focalizar Programas de Fomento Productivo, con recursos PIR y FNDR                             zonas que antes no podían ser intervenidas, y permite mejorar la gestión
  de libre disposición, con instituciones como SERCOTEC y FOSIS.                                 en esos territorios.
 Levantar iniciativas en rubros específicos INDAP (papas, quesos, flores).
 Orientar programas CORFO, como los (PEL), con información PMDT los                          • Existencia e inicio de proceso de consolidación de una nueva metodología
  municipios realicen los requerimiento pertinentes .                                            de evaluación. Aun así, se trata de un proceso dinámico, y requerirá
                                                                                                 ajustes (como los que se han dado entre los PMDTs de segunda y tercera
Para el Éxito del PMDT                                                                           generación).
    La elección de la Consultora es primordial
    La presencia y participación Municipal, es clave                                         • 45 PMDTs realizados a la fecha (tanto de primera como segunda
    La presencia en terreno de la UGR es absolutamente necesaria                                generación), cubriendo 185 subterritorios.
    disposición de los actores públicos                                                      • Existencia de una cartera importante en ejecución.
                                                                                              • Conformación de equipos regionales que lideran el programa a nivel local.
Conflictos
 Agenda Municipal propia                                                                     • Empatía y empoderamiento entre equipos (UGR, GORE, Unidades
 Indiferencia de las Unidades Técnicas,                                                         Técnicas).
                                                                                              • Articulación con servicios de fomento productivo.
                                                                                              • Generación de redes de trabajo integrados con servicios públicos.

                                                                                     9                                                                                                10




               DIFICULTADES DEL PIRDT                                                                    DIFICULTADES DEL PIRDT
• Una de las mayores dificultades del programa nace de la naturaleza                          • Falta de capacidad en las Unidades Técnicas. Capacidad medida en
     innovadora del programa. El cambio de cultura es un proceso, y los                         términos de personal disponible para llevar a cabo sus tareas en relación
     diferentes actores han requerido de tiempo para ajustarse a una nueva                      con el PIRDT, así como calidad del trabajo realizado (ejemplo de
     manera de hacer las cosas y a sus nuevos roles. Esto incluye el rol de                     problemas con el diseño de ciertas vías realizados por la Unidad Técnica
     MIDEPLAN y la coordinación entre los Servicios Públicos y el programa.                     en el Maule que se destruyeron con las primeras lluvias).
• Un tema que a veces ha sido difícil es el de la definición de los territorios.              • Baja capacidad técnica y de gestión de los equipos municipales.
     Si bien se entiende que la decisión ultima es de naturaleza política, resulta            • Demoras en procesos administrativos (tanto en lo interno del GORE como
     importante generar bases para que los mismos puedan ser validados                          en otras agencias vinculadas).
     técnicamente (para evitar lo que se presento en Los Lagos, donde el                      • En   algunas    regiones   se    ha   observado   la   existencia   de   pocas
     territorio no se pude sustentar, y el PMDTs no arrojo cartera). La región de               organizaciones productivas, así como falta de vigencia de algunas

     Libertador ha desarrollado una metodología muy interesante para definir                    organizaciones sociales.

     territorios, que ha sido compartida con el resto de las regiones.                        • Autonomía de traslado de los profesionales sobre el territorio. Si bien esto
                                                                                                aplica a varias de las regiones, el tema de movilidad es mas critico en
• Falta de cabeza sectorial para el tema de saneamiento.
                                                                                                regiones como Aysen o Los Lagos, donde acceder a ciertos lugares
• Falta de capacidad instalada en el mercado de las consultoras para realizar
                                                                                                requiere de tiempos de viaje de varios días.
     PMDTs.
                                                                                              • Estabilidad laboral de los integrantes de las UGRs (contratos, herramientas
• Imposición del Banco para usar sus bases de licitación retraso el proceso
                                                                                                de trabajo y otros). Adicionalmente está el tema de los seguros cuando se
     de adquisiciones.                                                               11                                                                                          12
                                                                                                encuentran en comisión.




                                                                                                                                                                                           49
                               LECCIONES                                                     COMENTARIOS BANCO MUNDIAL
                                                                                          • El que sea un convenio con el Banco Mundial, le entregó tanto al PIRDT
                                                                                            como a los PMDT un estatus distinto, frente a la institucionalidad pública
                                                                                            por lo que se hace necesario, si se quiere implementar como política
                                                                                            publica, el continuar con el Convenio Banco Mundial – Estado Chileno
                                                                                          • Mayor acompañamiento a las instituciones relacionadas, por ejemplo al
                                                                                            MIDEPLAN en el proceso de elaboración de la metodología
• Fortalecer la línea de fomento productivo en la implementación del Programa tanto       • Apoyo a las regiones con capacitaciones o transferencias de otras
  en el nivel nacional como regional                                                        metodologías usadas por el Banco para mejorar el programa
• Generar como obligatorio que los profesionales de la UGR tengan el curso de             • Sería importante poder compartir experiencias del mundo rural con otras
  elaboración y evaluación de Proyectos del MIDEPLAN                                        comunidades de Latinoamérica y conocer por ejemplo la realidad de los
                                                                                            agricultores del Paraguay con la Soya, o en México respecto de sus
                                                                                            experiencias de clusters de Palta. Resulta interesante poder contrastar los
                                                                                            resultados del programa a nivel nacional así como también en otros lugares
                                                                                            para aprender de sus realidades
                                                                                          • El Banco deberá flexibilizar sus requerimientos, confiando en la capacidad
                                                                                            de la institucionalidad publica chilena, para desarrollar los distintos
                                                                                     14     procesos que emanan del Programa                                              16




         COMENTARIOS BANCO MUNDIAL



     • Las misiones del Banco, mas que venir a conocer las acciones, debieran
        aportar con experiencias de otros convenios o países, que estén utilizando
        soluciones similares o alternativas
     • En su defecto, generar pasantías a distintas experiencias que esté
        desarrollando el Banco Mundial, para que los profesionales chilenos
        puedan conocer y replicar en sus territorios
     • Se ha logrado concretar visitas a diversos subterritorios con parte del
        equipo del Banco Mundial, lo que ha realzado la importancia e las
        inversiones para los beneficiarios directos de los proyectos




                                                                                     17




                                                                                                                                                                               50
                                        Annex 7
                Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower prepared a comprehensive report, which can be found in the Project’s file. A
summary is presented in this Annex.

I.-     INTRODUCCIÓN

El objetivo del informe, es dar a conocer los principales logros y dificultades que tuvo el Proyecto
en sus distintas etapas de implementación, ejecución y desarrollo en cada una de las regiones
donde se ha ejecutado, junto con dar a conocer los mecanismos adoptados para poder lograr los
objetivos del Proyecto, que es contribuir al uso efectivo y productivo de servicios de
infraestructura por comunidades rurales pobres en territorios seleccionados.

1.1.    Historia y Origen del Proyecto

En los últimos años, Chile ha realizado notables avances en su crecimiento económico, la
reducción de la pobreza y un mayor acceso de los pobres a los servicios públicos. Este proceso
también incluyó la expansión de los servicios de infraestructura básica, especialmente en las áreas
rurales, asegurando un mínimo nivel de vida, creando condiciones para generar mayores ingresos
y salir de la pobreza. En este contexto, Chile asumió un compromiso en el acceso a servicios de
infraestructura rural como medio para combatir la pobreza y la desigualdad. Este compromiso
adoptó distintas formas, y el establecimiento de canales de financiamiento especializados.

El Gobierno de Chile muy interesado en descubrir nuevos criterios para abordar el tema de la
provisión de servicios de infraestructura rural el año 2003 comenzó a trabajar con el Banco
Mundial en la implementación de un Trabajo Económico y Sectorial (TES) para identificar las
áreas en que las estrategias existentes podrían perfeccionarse, en particular, el Ministerio de
Hacienda ha trazado un plan de acción para dejar a un lado los actuales enfoques sectoriales
centralizados de la toma de decisiones de inversiones para permitir a los Gobiernos Regionales
(GORE) priorizar las inversiones dentro de cada asignación sectorial, especialmente en los
sectores de infraestructura rural (agua, caminos, electricidad).

Como complemento del TES, el Ministerio de Hacienda solicitó al Banco Mundial su apoyo para
elaborar y financiar un programa de infraestructura multisectorial dirigido específicamente a las
regiones y comunidades más pobres del país. En este contexto, el Gobierno vio al Banco Mundial
como una fuente de asesoría estratégica para diseñar nuevos enfoques del desarrollo territorial y
la infraestructura rural, teniendo en cuenta su experiencia internacional y su trabajo analítico. Al
mismo tiempo, puesto que el Gobierno busca acuerdos institucionales más apropiados para
planificar y proveer servicios de infraestructura rural, el Banco Mundial sirve como un tercero
más neutro para ayudar a reunir a un gran número de actores a nivel nacional, regional y local
para aumentar la coordinación intersectorial y crear en conjunto una nueva manera de proveer
servicios de infraestructura rural dentro de un enfoque territorial.

Por último, el financiamiento otorgado por el Banco Mundial permitió al Gobierno introducir una
nueva asignación presupuestaria multisectorial dentro del FNDR destinada específicamente a
mejoras de los servicios de infraestructura para los habitantes pobres de las zonas rurales.

1.2.    Descripción del Programa de Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial

                                                                                                 51
El Convenio de Préstamo contempló que el Banco aportaría para este proyecto la cifra de
US$50.26 millones, el resto de los fondos acordados fueron aportados por el Gobierno de Chile,
US$40 millones. En total los recursos con que el PIRDT contó para su ejecución, sumaba la
cantidad total de US$90.26 millones.

Dentro de este acuerdo se definió que los organismos responsables de la ejecución de proyecto,
serian la Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo (SUBDERE), y los Gobiernos
Regiones de las regiones elegibles para el Proyecto, las que fueron seleccionadas de acuerdo a sus
índices de pobreza y ruralidad. Para esta etapa piloto, se definieron cinco regiones elegibles para
la implementación, estas fueron: Coquimbo, Maule, Biobío, Araucanía y Los Lagos (esta última
región se divide posteriormente en dos: Los Ríos y Los Lagos).

La ejecución del Programa pretende establecer una visión territorial para el desarrollo, reforzando
y conectando a nivel regional los diversos instrumentos de planificación territorial con los
instrumentos de planificación regional (Estrategia Regional de Desarrollo - ERD), local (Plan de
Desarrollo Comunal - PLADECO) y sectorial. Este concepto incorpora la dimensión territorial en
los procesos de gestión regional y local y la coordinación pública-pública y pública-privada. Este
enfoque proporciona una instancia para movilizar a una gama variada de organizaciones que
representan los intereses de la iniciativa privada y la población local frente a opciones de
desarrollo que generen mejores ingresos y bienestar.

1.3.    Objetivos

Este Programa tiene por alcance la aplicación de nuevas modalidades y alternativas técnicas que
permitan acceder a infraestructura a comunidades rurales con diversos grados de concentración
poblacional a través de la utilización de enfoques participativos. La finalidad es contribuir al uso
efectivo y productivo de servicios de infraestructura por comunidades rurales pobres en territorios
seleccionados. Adicionalmente, se espera que sea una respuesta a la demanda de inversión de
infraestructura en zonas rurales no concentradas, con un estándar de calidad que dé sostenibilidad
a la inversión que allí se realiza y sea una base de sustentabilidad para el territorio.

1.4.    Componentes

Los componentes del Proyecto son los siguientes:
    • Planificación Territorial Participativa: que comprende la preparación en cada territorio de
       intervención del Programa, de un Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial (PMDT),
       incluyendo un conjunto de proyectos de infraestructura rural.
    • Provisión de Servicios de Infraestructura: que comprende la materialización de las
       inversiones en obras de infraestructura rural y su posterior operación y mantención,
       incluyendo la ejecución de programas de fortalecimiento de la capacidad local para la
       gestión de los servicios de infraestructura.
    • Fortalecimiento Institucional: que consiste en introducir mejoras en la capacidad de las
       agencias de gobierno para proveer servicios de infraestructura basados en un enfoque
       territorial.

1.5.    Estructura de Implementación

La ejecución del Proyecto se alojó en la Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo
(SUBDERE), específicamente de la División de Desarrollo Regional, a través de la Unidad de
Gerenciamiento y Desarrollo (UGD), dependiente del Departamento de Gestión de Inversiones

                                                                                                 52
Regionales. Para estos efectos, se contó con la colaboración de otros organismos públicos, entre
los que se encontraban el Ministerio de Obras Públicas (MOP) y MIDEPLAN. El MOP
participaría especialmente a través de la Dirección de Obras Hidráulicas y de la Dirección de
Vialidad.

Se identificó que los actores involucrados se encuentran en al menos cuatro niveles de gestión,
partiendo por el nivel central o nacional, pasando por los niveles regionales y territoriales y
llegando a los niveles de las áreas focalizadas de gestión e inversión integrada. Los principales
organismos públicos presentes en este proyecto serían el Ministerio de Obras Públicas (MOP), a
través de la Subsecretaría de Obras Públicas, las Dirección Nacional de Obras Hidráulicas y
Vialidad; el Ministerio Transportes y Telecomunicaciones, a través de la Subsecretaría de
Telecomunicaciones; la Comisión Nacional de Energía (CNE); el Ministerio de Hacienda; el
Ministerio de Agricultura y MIDEPLAN. A nivel regional, se encuentra el Intendente y las
dependencias administrativas del Gobierno Regional; las Secretarías Regionales Ministeriales
(SEREMI) y Servicios Públicos Regionales. A nivel territorial aparecen las asociaciones de
municipios, las Gobernaciones con sus actuales atribuciones, y a nivel de las áreas focalizadas
aparecen los municipios, con los organismos públicos y privados que pertenecen a estas áreas
territoriales. Para cada uno de estos niveles se proponen distintos roles, criterios, orientaciones,
políticas y visiones sobre como intervenir para promover el desarrollo rural.

II.-    IMPLEMENTACIÓN

2.1.    Hitos de Implementación

El primer hito del Proyecto corresponde a la firma del Convenio de Acuerdo de Préstamo, que
fue firmado entre la República de Chile y el Banco Mundial el día 18 de marzo de 2005.

Adicionalmente, para su implementación en regiones se debieron realizar diferentes Convenios de
Trabajo entre SUBDERE y los Gobiernos Regionales de las regiones elegibles para la
implementación del Proyecto (Los convenios se firmaron entre Octubre de 2005 y Agosto de
2006 – siendo este ultimo el de la Araucanía).

Cabe destacar que hoy luego de cumplir con el plazo de vigencia del Convenio de Préstamo, el
PIR se encuentra en etapa de expansión, tal es así que con posterioridad a la fecha fijada como
término del Convenio de Préstamo, el Proyecto recibió financiamiento con recursos nacionales,
para continuar como Provisión de la Subsecretaría, con el objetivo de intensificar la aplicación de
la Metodología de Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial (que se aborda más adelante), lo que en
términos prácticos significa que en el año 2012 el Proyecto se implementará en las regiones de
Arica y Parinacota, Tarapacá y Magallanes; el año 2013 se implementará en Antofagasta y
Atacama finalizando el 2014 con el ingreso de las regiones de Valparaíso y Metropolitana,
abarcando de esta manera todo el país.

Adicionalmente, con el objetivo de facilitar el trabajo conjunto con los sectores de Infraestructura
y Fomento Productivo, se firmaron convenios con los diversos ministerios e instituciones con los
que el Proyecto debía interactuar para lograr la intervención esperada en los territorios y
subterritorios seleccionados (se firmaron Convenios con la Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones
en el 2007, Subsecretaría de Obras Públicas en el 2007, Subsecretaría de Agricultura en el 2008 y
la Corporación Nacional de Desarrollo Indígena en el 2010).




                                                                                                 53
Tal vez, el hito de mayor relevancia lo representa el trabajo desarrollado en conjunto con
MIDEPLAN, futuro Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, que se vio plasmado en el desarrollo de la
Metodología de Formulación y Evaluación de Planes Marco de Desarrollo Territorial.

Si bien esta metodología de inversión tuvo su origen al interior del Proyecto, ya que no existía
una herramienta apta para intervenir sectores rurales con poblaciones semi concentradas y
dispersas, MIDEPLAN hizo suya a tarea y luego de un largo trabajo conjunto, con apoyo de una
consultoría externa, en Diciembre de 2010, se publica por primera vez en el portal de
MIDEPLAN, la Metodología PMDT, que permite la evaluación de una cartera de iniciativas para
zonas rurales no concentradas.

Cabe mencionar que hoy en día, la Metodología de Formulación y Evaluación de Planes Marco
de Desarrollo Territorial pertenece a MIDEPLAN, estando disponible en el Sistema Nacional de
Inversiones, lo que significa que esta institución es la responsable de capacitar a los distintos
organismos que deseen aplicar esta forma de intervención en un territorio determinado.

2.2.     Desembolsos

Al 31 de Diciembre de 2011, el Proyecto ejecutó la totalidad de los desembolsos comprometidos
en el Convenio, faltando sólo reportar por parte de Chile la Contrapartida Local que mantiene
saldo. Esta situación es conocida por el Banco Mundial y de común acuerdo con la UGD, se
programó que quede resuelta en el primer semestre de 2012.

2.3.     Componentes por región y Nivel Central

a)       Planes Marco de Desarrollo Territorial. La elaboración de Planes Marco de Desarrollo
Territorial, durante el desarrollo del Proyecto, se puede dividir en dos etapas, antes y después de
la aprobación de la Metodología PMDT por parte de MIDEPLAN. Las primeras experiencias de
estudios territoriales fueron realizados con una metodología incipiente, pues en los primeros años
no existía Metodología PMDT, para ello se requirió la elaboración de Términos Técnicos de
Referencia preliminares que fueron acordados con MIDEPLAN, de modo que permitieran la
contratación de PMDTs, con el objetivo de avanzar en el Proyecto, obteniendo de esta manera
carteras integradas de Proyectos. Estos PMDT, se denominaron PMDT de primera generación o
PMDT1.

Una vez que se contó con una primera versión de la Metodología de Formulación y Evaluación de
PMDT, se comenzó el proceso de elaboración de los Planes, que se denominaron PMDT de
segunda generación o PMDT2. Esta segunda etapa de ejecución de Planes Marco de Desarrollo
Territorial, siguió siendo contratada en SUBDERE y la selección de las empresas consultoras
también continuaba como un trabajo conjunto entre SUBDERE y los Gobiernos Regionales
respectivos, pero se avanzó en que la contraparte técnica correspondía sólo a actores de la región
respectiva, por lo que eran aprobados técnicamente por una comisión formada entre el Gobierno
Regional y los representantes de MIDEPLAN en la región, sectorialistas de la SERPLAC. Sin
embargo, la responsabilidad final quedaba en SUBDERE, dado que los contratos se firmaban en
el Nivel Central. Sólo en la última etapa de ejecución del Proyecto, luego de una modificación del
Manual Operativo, se asignó a los Gobiernos Regionales la responsabilidad de la licitación,
contratación, gestión y aprobación de los PMDTs.

                                        CUADRO No 1: Metodología PMDT
                                           Características e Implicaciones
Las principales características de esta metodología son las siguientes: (i) se trata de una metodología que se aplica


                                                                                                                 54
sobre un territorio, definido por el Gobierno Regional, en el que existe una actividad productiva, que requiere la
implementación de infraestructura y acciones de fomento productivo para desarrollarse; (ii) es una metodología
eminentemente participativa, que con la participación de los actores relevantes del territorio, define la visión del
territorio e identifica las brechas que impiden el desarrollo del territorio, en términos de las actividades productivas;
(iii) una vez identificadas las brechas, la metodología permite identificar a continuación la infraestructura y acciones de
fomento productivo que permitirían abordar o eliminar las brechas que impiden el desarrollo de los negocios; (iv)
posteriormente se procede a evaluar desde el punto de vista social, la infraestructura identificada en su conjunto; (v)
adicionalmente, con esta información, se elabora un programa de inversiones, asociado a la MML del PMDT; y (vi)
finalmente, se constituye un pacto territorial en el que participan todos los actores del territorio, autoridades, sectores de
infraestructura, de fomento productivo y productores, entre otros.

En función de lo anterior, se puede deducir que el PMDT, plantea una serie de modificaciones, respecto de la forma
tradicional como se ha invertido en Chile, entre otras se puede mencionar: (i) La implementación de la Metodología
PMDT, rompe con la forma tradicional de identificar infraestructura, pues la identifica desde la demanda y no desde la
oferta, a diferencia de otros programas del Estado; (ii) identifica un conjunto de obras y de acciones de fomento
productivo, que al ser aplicadas en su conjunto, generarán beneficios superiores a la suma de los beneficios
individuales; (iii) la evaluación de la infraestructura y acciones de fomento, se realiza integralmente, a diferencia de la
forma tradicional en que se evalúa la infraestructura en Chile; (iv) convoca a diferentes sectores de infraestructura y de
fomento productivo a poner su experiencia y recursos en el territorio.

b)        Provisión de servicios de Infraestructura

El segundo componente corresponde a la Provisión de Servicios de Infraestructura, que consiste
en ejecutar las iniciativas identificadas en los PMDT. Para la ejecución de la cartera PIRDT, los
fondos son distribuidos por el Nivel Central desde la Provisión asignada por DIPRES anualmente
a SUBDERE. La distribución de estos recursos se realiza en el mes de diciembre y va respaldada
por una cartera de proyectos en situación de arrastre, contratados y licitados.

c)        Fortalecimiento Institucional

Por último, el componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional está vinculado con el fortalecimiento
de las capacidades de gestión tanto para las regiones insertas en el Proyecto como para nivel
central. En este componente se incluyen los convenios con las diferentes instituciones ligadas al
desarrollo del Proyecto, los estudios de mejoramiento al programa, las asistencias técnicas a las
Unidades Técnicas, talleres de capacitación o de formación de alianzas estratégicas a nivel
nacional o regional y para los programas de difusión.

De los estudios a resaltar se citan: (i) la elaboración del “Manual de Soluciones de Saneamiento
Sanitario en Zonas Rurales?, el que es utilizado principalmente por los municipios, así como (ii)
“Aplicación, Corrección, Validación y Capacitación en la Metodología Integral de Formulación y
Evaluación de Proyectos Identificados en el Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial?, que permitió
el desarrollo de la Guía Metodológica de Formulación y Evaluación de Planes Marco de
Desarrollo Territorial.

2.4.      Evaluaciones aplicadas al Proyecto

Durante la ejecución del Proyecto, éste fue sometido a tres evaluaciones independientes, llevadas
a cabo el año 2006 y el 2007 por la Unidad de Evaluaciones de la División de Políticas y Estudios
de la SUBDERE, y la tercera realizada por DIPRES en el año 2008. Adicionalmente, el Banco
Mundial efectuó una evaluación de Medio Término, una vez cumplido dos años y medio de
operación.




                                                                                                                          55
La conclusión de los primeros tres estudios fue coincidente, ya que todos concluyeron que para el
desarrollo del Proyecto, se debía modificar el diseño planteado originalmente así como la Matriz
de Marco Lógico de éste (La matriz modificada se encuentra en el informe original, Anexo 4).

III.-   PROBLEMAS DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN

3.1.    Identificación y Descripción de Problemas de Implementación Generales

Para el caso de la implementación del Proyecto se detectaron las siguientes falencias: (i)
ejecución inconsistente con el propósito del Proyecto, ya que se ejecutó inversión sin haber
terminado la planificación y sin contar con una metodología adecuada de planificación; (ii) débil
posicionamiento del Proyecto en las regiones, junto con señalar que no lograba articularse con la
institucionalidad pública; y (iii) deficiente capacidad de gestión de los equipos regionales, junto a
la poca presencia del equipo del Nivel Central en las regiones.

Planificación Territorial Participativa. Las primeras experiencias de estudios territoriales
fueron realizadas con una metodología incipiente, pues en los primeros años no existía
Metodología PMDT. Para la aplicación de los PMDT, en los primeros años de implementación de
Proyecto, no existía la capacidad técnica dentro de la institucionalidad pública para la aplicación
de estos nuevos criterios y conceptos, siendo escasa también la capacidad de contraparte técnica
dentro de los Gobiernos Regionales. Otro factor que afectó el desempeño del proyecto fueron las
discusiones en los Gobiernos Regionales, por la selección de los territorios y subterritorios, pues
no existía acuerdo entre los actores. Como ejemplo, en la Región de La Araucanía, el primer
PMDT fue contratado en el año 2008.

Con el propósito de subsanar parte de estas deficiencias, se desarrollaron una serie de estudios y
consultorías para mejorar la gestión del programa, entre las más destacable de estos estudios o
consultorías es la relacionada con la elaboración de la Guía de Formulación y Evaluación de un
Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial, la que es considerada el gran producto entregado por el
PIRDT en estos años de ejecución, ya que esta nueva metodología de inversión permite intervenir
zonas rurales de forma integral y participativa en territorios con potencial productivo. Esta
metodología se puede revisar en:
http://sni.ministeriodesarrollosocial.gob.cl/documentos/Sectores_2011/Pirdt/guia_pmdt2011.pdf

Cabe destacar que como parte del proceso de optimización de la Guía Metodológica PMDT, ésta
fue sometida a una mejora por parte de MIDEPLAN, durante al año 2011, con el propósito de ir
subsanando las deficiencias presentes hasta ese momento, una vez finalizado este proceso,
MIDEPLAN adoptó esta nueva metodología, permitiendo su aplicación por parte de cualquier
Gobierno Regional, además cabe destacar que también se incorporó un cuestionario para definir
junto con el desarrollo del PMDT, la captura de una Línea Base estándar del territorio, con esto se
espera que la implementación del PMDT sea más eficiente y efectiva.

Provisión de Servicios de Infraestructura
Las características de las iniciativas de infraestructura identificadas mediante los PMDT no
implican mayores dificultades técnicas en su ejecución, las dificultades se produjeron antes, una
vez terminado los Planes Marco de Desarrollo Territorial, tanto en la etapa de pre inversión como
de inversión.

Los primeros PMDT generaron gran expectativa en la comunidad, (considerando su enfoque
participativo) pues la infraestructura identificada muchas veces corresponde a proyectos que
habían y han sido demandados por la comunidad y que su desarrollo ha estado postergado

                                                                                                  56
considerando su baja densidad poblacional, por lo que habitualmente al ser presentados al
Sistema Nacional de Inversiones (SNI) son y serían calificados de “baja rentabilidad? y no
obtendrían RS bajo una metodología tradicional.

Esta expectativa, en las primeras experiencias de los PMDT presentó una dificultad, pues al
momento de la participación con los actores locales en el desarrollo de los PMDT, no fueron
explicados adecuadamente los ciclos de los proyectos y el tiempo que debe transcurrir entre la
identificación de una iniciativa y la posible ejecución de esta, por lo que la comunidad
demandaba y esperaba que al momento de terminar el estudio, debían comenzar la ejecución de
las obras, pues desconocían la etapa de pre inversión.

Una vez terminado los Planes Marco de Desarrollo Territorial y a fin de desarrollar la etapa de
pre inversión de las iniciativas identificadas, se encontró con la dificultad de que los sectores
tenían definidas sus carteras de acuerdo al ejercicio presupuestario sectorial (Infraestructura y
Fomento). Además no tenían el recurso humano necesario para dar cabida a más proyectos, por lo
que priorizaban el desarrollo de las iniciativas sectoriales sobre las identificadas en los PMDT, lo
que generó un retraso en la ejecución. Además, el hecho de que el programa presentaba bases y
documentos de licitación distintos a los de la normativa nacional, por ende, distintos a los
utilizados en forma habitual y visados por el sector y además desconocidos por los profesionales
de las instituciones, hacía que éstos fueran renuentes a su utilización, y como el crédito exigía la
utilización de éstos, se produce una gran dificultad y como consecuencia retraso en la ejecución
de la inversión.

En base a lo anterior se puede señalar que el gran problema en la implementación del Proyecto
fue las dificultades para gestionar la cartera de proyectos factibles a ser financiados por el PIRDT.

3.2.    Modificaciones al Proyecto Original

Como resultado de la evaluación realizada por DIPRES se ajustó la Matriz de Marco Lógico
(MML) y la formulación de indicadores y medios de verificación a nivel de propósito de la MML
y la componente de fortalecimiento. Para la propuesta de modificación de la MML, se
consideraron las siguientes características como punto de partida: (i) el objetivo del Programa es
de desarrollo productivo y no social; (ii) los efectos principales deseados es en las unidades
productivas y no en la población en general; (iii) la infraestructura tiene como objetivo principal
mejorar el entorno productivo y no dar servicios a la población; (iv) el Programa tiene tres niveles
de acción: Nacional, Regional y Local; (v) los efectos o cambios deseados del Programa son
principalmente en el nivel local, pero hay acciones y objetivos a lograr en los tres niveles, acorde
con los diferentes roles de los agentes ejecutores de los productos del programa en cada uno de
estos niveles; (vi) en cada nivel se ejecutan actividades/componentes orientadas a un objetivo que
se manifiesta en el nivel siguiente, es decir, las acciones/componentes del nivel nacional
(SUBDERE/División de Desarrollo Regional) generan un objetivo (Propósito) que se manifiesta
en un cambio en el nivel regional (GORE), cumplido este objetivo el GORE puede desarrollar
actividades/componentes que se manifiestan en un cambio en el nivel local (sector productivo
local), cumplido este objetivo el nivel local (Unidades Productivas/Núcleo Gestor) puede
desarrollar actividades/componentes que generan un cambio en el sector productivo local; (vii) el
programa tiene diferentes productos (bienes o servicios) en los tres niveles que tienen procesos de
ejecución propios, pero que están estrechamente relacionados; (viii) asociado a la ejecución del
Programa se genera un proceso nuevo de gestión territorial que integra la identificación,
formulación, evaluación y ejecución de una cartera de inversiones, con foco en el desarrollo de
las potencialidades productivas del subterritorio, en el cual participan a diferentes niveles y con
responsabilidades distintivas: la comunidad, los productores, el Municipio, Servicios públicos que

                                                                                                  57
ofrecen en el subterritorio programas e instrumentos de fomento productivo, Servicios públicos
que priorizan y ejecutan infraestructura para prestar servicios públicos en el subterritorio,
GORE/CORE, MIDEPLAN/SERPLAC y la SUBDERE/División de Desarrollo Regional.

Adicionalmente, se efectúo una enmienda al Contrato de Préstamo, generada por los atrasos de
ejecución y de las altas expectativas que se habrían generado inicialmente. Como resultado de
ello y a fin de acelerar los desembolsos y de dar a la UGD más flexibilidad en financiar proyectos
PIRDT con recursos del Banco y de contraparte nacional, se acordó procesar una enmienda al
convenio de préstamo que permitiera subir la proporción de gastos a financiar con recursos del
préstamo de 50% o 70% hasta 100%, mejorando con ello la ejecución del gasto.

3.3.       Temas de Implementación pendientes a resolver

Considerando lo expuesto en los puntos anteriores, y el tiempo transcurrido desde la validación
de la Metodología PMDT y el comienzo de esta nueva etapa del Programa, se puede mencionar
algunos de los nuevos desafíos para la adecuada implementación del Programa:

       •   Avanzar en la consolidación e institucionalización en los distintos servicios y/o actores
           del Sector Público de la metodología PMDT, con el propósito de generar su participación
           desde el inicio en conjunto con los Gobiernos Regionales en la utilización del PMDT. Es
           especialmente relevante que al momento de efectuar la selección de los territorios donde
           se aplicará la metodología, participe la sectorialidad pública, para así afianzar su
           compromiso con la ejecución propia del estudio y de los resultados de éste.
           Se adjunta en Anexo el documento “Priorización de Territorios y Selección de
           Subterritorios? de la Región del Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins (corresponde a una de
           las dos regiones no pilotos, ingresadas al programa en el año 2011) que transcribe la
           experiencia del Equipo UGR y del GORE en el desarrollo de la primera etapa del PMDT.
           Esta experiencia corresponde a una iniciativa regional para la coordinación de los
           sectores de infraestructura y de las instituciones de fomento para la ejecución del
           programa, pero es necesario avanzar con los actores del Sector Público en los Niveles
           Centrales.
       •   Avanzar en la sistematización técnica de la etapa de selección de territorios y
           subterritorios, pues permitirá aplicar la metodología con mayor asertividad, alejando los
           factores políticos que podrían surgir en la selección de los subterritorios.
       •   El Progreso en la sinergia entre los GORE, Gobiernos Locales, Sectores de
           Infraestructura e Instituciones de Fomento Productivo para la identificación y desarrollo
           de iniciativas en los territorios bajo una mirada de integración generará gran impacto en
           la comunidad productiva.
       •   Los Sectores de Infraestructura, generalmente son servicios planificados y financiados,
           bajo una toma de decisiones centralizada basada en las asignaciones sectoriales, si bien
           están avanzando hacia el enfoque territorial, es necesario que el Programa apoye la
           coordinación a nivel nacional y con los Gobiernos Regionales y actores locales, y así
           acelerar el ciclo de proyectos para zonas con población dispersa.
       •   Crear los arreglos institucionales requeridos para la expansión en el uso de la
           metodología PMDT y su consolidación a nivel nacional, transfiriendo las capacidades
           técnicas adecuadas para el uso de ésta, hacia los Gobiernos Regionales y locales.
       •   Avanzar en el diseño y aplicación de los compromisos necesarios que permitan garantizar
           la adecuada implementación de la metodología y así apoyar la participación de la
           sectorialidad pública, para facilitar la incorporación del Programa en las regiones
           faltantes.

                                                                                                 58
       •   Avanzar en el diseño y aplicación de compromisos sectoriales necesarios que permitan
           garantizar la sostenibilidad y ejecución de las carteras de proyectos y su respectiva
           inversión.
       •   Avanzar en estándares técnicos necesarios para las tipologías de infraestructura en los
           sectores rurales y de población semi concentrada y/o dispersa, y así llegar con servicios
           y/o soluciones adecuadas que tengan una mejor relación costo-eficiencia en la inversión y
           operación. Un ejemplo es el avance en la elaboración de metodologías de diseño para
           invertir en sistemas de saneamiento sanitario rural para diferentes realidades rurales, que
           se desarrolló en el “Manual de Soluciones de Saneamiento Rural, disponible en la página:
           http://www.subdere.cl/documentacion/manual-de-soluciones-de-saneamiento-sanitario-
           para-zonas-rurales-homsy-0
           Sin embargo, existen otras áreas en la que es necesario avanzar.
       •   Avanzar en incorporación de nuevas tecnologías en las tipologías de infraestructura que
           apoyen la operación y mantenimiento de las obras.
       •   Avanzar en el fortalecimiento de los organismos de gestión locales identificados en los
           PMDT (núcleos gestores, comités de agua potable, asociación de municipios, etc.), a fin
           de entregar las capacidades que permitan gestionar la ejecución de las iniciativas
           identificadas en los PMDT y la sostenibilidad de la infraestructura en su operación.
       •   Avanzar en modificaciones de la Metodología a fin de que en su momento el PMDT
           pueda ser actualizado en forma posterior a su ejecución, para validar la pertinencia de
           intervención de las incitativas identificadas y que aún no se hubiesen realizado.
       •   Avanzar en modificaciones de la Metodología para otros usos.

IV.-       LOGROS Y APRENDIZAJES

Los logros y aprendizajes de mayor relevancia a la fecha, son entre otros:
    • Desarrollo de una Metodología de planificación y evaluación participativa, con enfoque
        territorial y productivo, Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial (PMDT).
    • Ingreso e innovación en el Sector Público de Chile, con una Metodología que analiza y
        genera una cartera de proyectos analizados de manera integral y con una visión territorial.
    • Desarrollo de carteras de proyectos en sectores rurales, con población semi concentrada y
        dispersa, donde normalmente los proyectos serían calificados de “baja rentabilidad? y no
        obtendrían RS en el SNI.
    • Ejecución de fase piloto del programa en 6 regiones y en el año 2012 se desarrollará en
        11 de las 15 existentes.
    • El PMDT forma parte de las metodologías que el Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, pone a
        disposición para la evaluación de iniciativas de inversión del Sector Público a nivel
        nacional.
    • Progresos en la sinergia entre los GORE, Gobiernos Locales, Sectores de Infraestructura
        e Instituciones de Fomento Productivo para la identificación y desarrollo de iniciativas en
        los territorios.
    • Diseño de un programa que opera por demanda desde el nivel local.
    • Desarrollo de un modelo de gestión que permite coordinar diferentes inversores y
        acelerar el ciclo de proyectos para zonas con población rural dispersa (identificación,
        formulación, evaluación).
    • Elaboración de metodologías de diseño para invertir en sistemas de saneamiento sanitario
        rural para diferentes realidades rurales.

4.1.       Planificación Territorial Participativa


                                                                                                   59
Esta componente es considerada primordial en el desarrollo del proyecto y a la vez altamente
exitosa frente a los objetivos del Programa, pues durante el transcurso del proyecto ha permitido
incorporar y/o afianzar el enfoque territorial y apoyar la incorporación en el Sector Público de
Chile, de una Metodología que identifica, evalúa y genera una cartera de proyectos analizados de
manera integral y con una visión territorial.

4.2.     Provisión de Servicios de Infraestructura
Finalmente, como se ha mencionado una de las grandes dificultades de la ejecución de las
iniciativas es el tiempo que transcurre entre el termino del PMDT y la ejecución de las obras
identificadas, para avanzar se propone y se propicia adelantar etapas de pre inversión y en
algunos casos inversión de las iniciativas “evidentes? en forma paralela a la ejecución del PMDT.
Adicionalmente, es necesario reforzar el recurso humano de las Unidades Técnicas, contratando
asistencias técnicas, para el desarrollo de las iniciativas identificadas en los PMDT.

4.3.    Fomento Productivo
Con respecto a las iniciativas de Fomento Productivo se avanzó en incorporar a los beneficiarios
PIR en los programas de cada institución, o bien capacitarlos y fortalecerlos para que tuvieran
cabida en las postulaciones de la institución respectiva. Una dificultad expresada por los GORE
es que el programa sólo apoyó la pre inversión en esta tipología y es de su interés la posibilidad
de incorporar la compra de activos.

4.4.    Cartera PMDT
La tipología de infraestructura que presenta mayor avance es la tipología de conectividad
caminera (Anexo 8), pues gran cantidad de los proyectos identificados en esta tipología, no
presenta mayores dificultades técnicas y la solución de avanzar con asistencias técnicas ha sido
exitosa, pues se considera en el contrato del profesional, todos los equipos, herramientas y
requerimientos que le permita desarrollar el proyecto para su ejecución. Además las etapas de un
proyecto de conectividad caminera y los tiempos de éstas, son menores al de las otras tipologías
apoyadas por el programa, pudiendo ser desarrollada habitualmente en menos de un año. En la
tipología de infraestructura de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario se ha avanzado en los
proyectos de ampliación, reposición y en las etapas de factibilidad y pre factibilidad, como
estudios hidrogeológicos, sondajes, pozos, etc. Es decir, se ha avanzado de acuerdo a los
requerimientos propios de los proyectos de esta tipología.
Las políticas y enfoques sectoriales a la infraestructura rural, afectó mayormente en el área de
telecomunicaciones (Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones - SUBTEL) y las economías de escala
en el área de la electrificación. Durante los últimos años, la coordinación con SUBTEL ha
cambiado y se puede mencionar como un logro y una experiencia exitosa. Por otro lado, parece
importante mencionar, que el año 2009 y por petición de los Gobiernos Regionales se incorporó a
través de una Enmienda al Contrato de Préstamo (Anexo 3), la tipología de conectividad en obras
portuarias.

4.5.    Fortalecimiento institucional
Se requiere avanzar en el diseño y aplicación de los compromisos sectoriales necesarios que
permitan garantizar la sostenibilidad y ejecución de las carteras de proyectos y su respectiva
inversión. Otra propuesta también considerada en la próxima componente es modificar la
metodología PMDT a fin de que considere entre sus productos no sólo el perfil en los proyectos
más relevante de infraestructura, si no su diseño.

V.-     BANCO MUNDIAL Y EQUIPO DE SUPERVISIÓN

5.1.    Equipos de Supervisión

                                                                                               60
Durante el primer año de ejecución del Proyecto, en Octubre de 2005, se efectuó una Misión de
Supervisión, momento en que se produce el reemplazo del primer Gerente del Proyecto.

Durante el año 2006, se realizaron dos Misiones de Supervisión, en Junio y Diciembre, fecha esta
última en que el Coordinador del Proyecto por parte de SUBDERE, había sido reemplazado, a
partir de Noviembre de 2006.

Por último, en al final del período de ejecución del Proyecto, en la Misión de Supervisión de
Diciembre de 2010, ingresa el último Gerente de Proyecto, que acompaña el Proyecto hasta la
fecha.

En las Misiones de Supervisión, los Gerentes del Proyecto, por parte del Banco Mundial, asistían
con un equipo de especialistas en las áreas en que el Proyecto interviene.

5.2.    Grado de compenetración del Proyecto
Los tres Gerentes del Proyecto, por parte del Banco Mundial demostraron desde el momento en
que asumieron sus cargos un gran conocimiento de los detalles que involucra el Proyecto, así
como de la institucionalidad de SUBDERE y la sectorialidad pública. Aunque, por razones
obvias, en los momentos en que se producían cambios políticos o de autoridades en el país,
debían adquirir la sensibilidad necesaria, para abordar a las nuevas autoridades o visiones de las
nuevas autoridades, cuestión en que demostraron gran experiencia y versatilidad para afrontar las
situaciones nuevas.

En este sentido, aunque se comprende que la dinámica del Banco genere que los equipos de
supervisión del Banco se modifiquen en el transcurso del desarrollo del mismo, pareciera
deseable que algunos profesionales permanezcan en el tiempo, pues mantienen la historia del
mismo, pues no basta la lectura de las Ayudas Memoria para rescatar la historia del proyecto.

En lo que se refiere, a los especialistas del Banco que acompañaron a las Misiones, su
compenetración con el Proyecto se puede calificar de buena, aunque en varias oportunidades se
debió explicar el proyecto a especialistas que comenzaban en el Proyecto, destacando que luego
de ello todos demostraron un conocimiento acabado del mismo.

También en el caso de los especialistas, en general al inicio de sus labores, algunos demostraron
desconocimiento respecto de la sectorialidad pública, cuestión que se repetía en sus áreas
específicas, lo que muestra falta de preparación de los mismos, con anterioridad a las Misiones.


5.3.    Desempeño
En primer término, se puede mencionar que las Misiones de Supervisión en general se realizaban
dos veces al año, incluyendo visitas de campo y reuniones con la sectorialidad pública
relacionada con el Proyecto. La frecuencia de las Misiones de Supervisión es calificada como
adecuada y la calidad y aporte de las mismas se evalúa como de buen nivel y necesario para el
desarrollo y éxito del Proyecto. El desempeño de los Gerentes del Proyecto, se puede evaluar
como de alto nivel, por cuanto la profundidad del seguimiento que efectuaron ayudó al desarrollo
del proyecto, mostrando continuamente disponibilidad de apoyo a la UGD y a los equipos
regionales, así como proactividad para abordar las dificultades que se presentaron.

Una especial mención, se debe realizar respecto de las normativas que el Banco Mundial impone
a los Convenios de Préstamo, en lo que respecta a las reglamentaciones, exigencias o
salvaguardas propias del Banco, por cuanto el cumplimiento de dichas restricciones, en la

                                                                                               61
mayoría de los casos estaba sobre el desempeño del Proyecto, pese a que en algunas ocasiones la
continuidad del Proyecto estuvo en riesgo.
Aunque es posible modificar el Contrato de Préstamo, ello requiere de un período importante de
tiempo y una importante carga administrativa. En tal sentido, falta entregar alguna prerrogativa
que les permita a los Gerentes de Proyecto, abordar con mayor facilidad algunos problemas que
se presenten, no contemplados originalmente en el Contrato de Préstamo, que no involucre los
costos mencionados.

VI.-       CONCLUSIONES

6.1.   Introducción
Se ha mostrado que pese a los logros obtenidos, el Proyecto se encuentra en una etapa de
expansión y consolidación, que requiere una serie de acciones adicionales para estar consolidado.

6.2.       Avances del Proyecto
       •   Ejecución del Programa, como piloto, en seis regiones del País en las que se aplicó la
           metodología PMDT. En el año 2012 se ha programado que sea implementado en 11
           regiones y se proyecta que en el 2014 se desarrolle en todas las regiones del país.
       •   Desarrollo de una Metodología de planificación y evaluación participativa, con enfoque
           territorial y productivo, denominada Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial (PMDT), cuyo
           resultado es una cartera de proyectos analizados de manera integral.
       •   La metodología PMDT, forma parte de las metodologías que MIDEPLAN pone a
           disposición del Sector Público, para la evaluación de iniciativas de inversión.
       •   Desarrollo de una cartera viabilizada de proyectos en sectores rurales, con población semi
           concentrada y dispersa, donde normalmente los proyectos serían calificados de “baja
           rentabilidad? y no obtendrían RS en el SNI.
       •   Existen varios casos exitosos de intervención en territorios, algunos de ellos se describen
           en el Anexo 9.

6.3.    Ventajas de intensificar la aplicación de la Metodología PMDT
Se puede afirmar, que existe una serie ventajas al aplicar la metodología PMDT, que hacen
deseable intensificar su uso, estas ventajas se describen a continuación:
     • Contribuye al proceso de descentralización iniciado en el país. Desde su origen, los
        territorios identificados para desarrollar los PMDTs se determinan, seleccionan y se
        implementan desde las regiones. Proceso, en el cual, los Gobiernos Regionales se
        involucran e interactúan con los agentes locales de la región, como municipios y
        comunidades rurales potenciales para participar en el programa.
     • Optimiza la intervención pública en territorios al aplicar una visión territorial y no
        sectorial. Evita que se dupliquen esfuerzos públicos.
     • Reorienta como instrumento, a otros sectores o servicios a nuevos usuarios potenciales.
        El programa representa un buen instrumento de intervención en comunidades rurales, en
        dónde otros servicios u organismos no llegan o no abordan la problemática existente. Por
        tal razón, abre una nueva cartera de usuarios potenciales para ser considerados dentro de
        los lineamientos de cada entidad, en el corto o mediano plazo (MOP, Fosis, Sercotec,
        ONG, etc.).
     • Contribuye al arraigo o sentido de pertenencia de las comunidades rurales intervenidas,
        particularmente por la forma de intervención del programa en dichos territorios
        seleccionados, incidiendo en una mejoría de la calidad de vida de la población
        beneficiaria, fundamentado por un desarrollo de su entorno local.


                                                                                                   62
       •   Contribuye a disminuir la migración de la población rural a centros urbanos. Lo anterior,
           producto del mejoramiento del entorno y el desarrollo de nuevas oportunidades de
           capacitación y laboral.
       •   Contribuye como elemento de cohesión en las comunidades rurales intervenidas. El
           programa desde su génesis involucra a la población para su organización, fomentando
           lazos sociales orientados a un emprendimiento y desarrollo comunitario.
       •   Contribuye como elemento de formación y orientador a nuevas tecnologías. Para la
           implementación del programa existe la necesidad de coordinarse con otras entidades para
           capacitar e instruir a la población en el conocimiento y uso de nuevas tecnologías,
           mercados, líneas de administración, etc.
       •   Contribuye como instrumento de difusión y comunicación de las localidades intervenidas
           en zonas extremas. Por las características de intervención del programa, permite mejorar
           la comunicación a la comunidad en zonas extremas.

6.4.   Visión de futuro del uso de la Metodología PMDT
En función de los avances conseguidos y las ventajas que se detectan de la aplicación de la
Metodología PMDT, es posible establecer una Visión de Futuro del proyecto, que permite definir
el rumbo futuro de las acciones del Proyecto.

Como se ha expresado, más allá del Programa de Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo
Territorial - PIR, lo relevante es la aplicación de la Metodología de Plan Marco de Desarrollo
Territorial – PMDT, que permite efectuar la planificación de un territorio y evaluar un conjunto
de iniciativas de infraestructura y acciones de fomento productivo, que eliminarán las brechas que
evitan que las actividades económicas presentes en el territorio se desarrollen.

Desde el punto de vista de la Planificación, el PMDT permite coordinar todos los instrumentos de
planificación de un territorio, lo que optimiza la coordinación de la inversión pública.
En consideración a los avances del Proyecto y a las ventajas que se han detectado de la aplicación
de un PMDT, es posible definir una acción deseable futura, que se enumera a continuación:

       •   Ejecutar las acciones para que en el mediano/largo plazo, tanto la inversión sectorial
           como del FNDR, que surja de un PMDT aumente crecientemente.
       •   Ejecutar las acciones para que en el mediano/largo plazo, toda la inversión pública en el
           sector rural surja de la aplicación de un PMDT.
       •   Ejecutar las acciones para que en el mediano/largo plazo, se pueda extender la aplicación
           de la metodología PMDT, a otros instrumentos del FNDR, Municipios y Sectores.
       •   Ejecutar las acciones para que en el mediano/largo plazo, se pueda modificar la
           metodología PMDT, para que sea aplicable en otros ámbitos, tales como educación,
           salud, temas sociales o tan específicos como territorios indígenas o localidad aisladas.
       •   Ejecutar las acciones para que en el mediano/largo plazo, la aplicación de Metodología
           más que una Provisión, sea una Política Pública.

6.5.       Desafíos Programa de Infraestructura Rural para el Desarrollo Territorial

Para comprender la distancia entre la situación actual y la situación deseada, es necesario recordar
que el Sector Público en Chile, históricamente ha desarrollado proyectos individuales que no se
analizan en relación a otras iniciativas, ni a la intervención de otros sectores, adicionalmente no
consideran una visión territorial ni participativa. Esta forma de intervención está arraigada en el
formulador, en toda la sectorialidad, en el evaluador MIDEPLAN y en la autoridad. Para


                                                                                                 63
modificar esto, no basta que el Programa haya ejecutado con arreglo a la Metodología un 2,5%
del presupuesto del FNDR, luego de seis años de operación.

Por otro lado, se debe reconocer que se ha invertido mucho tiempo en desarrollar una
metodología, que si bien está disponible para todo el país, sólo se aplica en los Gobiernos
Regionales en que el Proyecto se ha instalado y con equipos humanos destinados a ello.
Para avanzar en la Visión, es necesario efectuar un conjunto de tareas y acciones que se resumen
a continuación.
    • La metodología se encuentra en etapa de expansión, dado que MIDEPLAN ha efectuado
        capacitaciones vía video-conferencias y presenciales en las regiones en las que el
        Proyecto opera. Sin embargo, aun las Unidades Técnicas posen poco conocimiento sobre
        su lógica y/o aplicación por lo que la coordinación que se produce para la ejecución final
        de las obras es lenta, por tanto se debe intensificar la capacitación.
    • La Metodología, debe mostrar su fortaleza y se debe ir ajustando y/o mejorando en la
        medida de las necesidades regionales, de manera de consolidarla a nivel nacional. La
        fortaleza de la misma sólo se podrá verificar en la medida del uso extensivo de ella.
    • Para la expansión y/o consolidación de la metodología, se deberán transferir
        capacidades técnicas adecuadas para su correcta aplicación a los gobiernos regionales y a
        la sectorialidad pública regional y nacional.
    • Se debe institucionalizar la metodología en el sector público, para facilitar la intervención
        en sectores rurales con población semi concentrada y dispersa, de este modo se podrían
        generar políticas de intervención en zonas rurales con mayor eficacia y de mejor calidad.
        Localidades aisladas y territorios indígenas.
    • Está pendiente la vinculación presupuestaria, de los pactos territoriales que se obtienen de
        la aplicación de la Metodología, con la sectorialidad de infraestructura y de fomento
        productivo que deben intervenir.
    • Se debe institucionalizar la sinergia entre los Gobiernos Regionales, Gobiernos Locales,
        Sectores de Infraestructura e Instituciones de Fomento Productivo en los territorios, para
        la identificación, el desarrollo y ejecución de las iniciativas identificadas.
    • Se debe, en el corto/mediano plazo modificar la metodología de manera que se pueda
        aplicar a localidades aisladas y a territorios indígenas.
    • Se debe, en el mediano plazo generar condiciones para que las municipalidades puedan
        aplicar la metodología. Para que ello sea posible, se debe procurar que estas instituciones
        tengan las suficientes capacidades tanto técnicas como financieras para lograr una
        correcta aplicación de esta metodología.
    • Si bien el proyecto ha sido exitoso, se está en una fase frágil en la cual se requiere de
        apoyo para: (i) consolidación; (ii) expansión e (iii) institucionalización.




                                                                                                64
                       Annex 8
Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                                           65
                                          Annex 9
                               List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document on a proposed Loan in the amount of US$50.26
million to the Republic of Chile for an Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project,
November 19, 2004. Report No 30463

The World Bank. Loan Agreement (Infrastructure for Territorial Development Project) between
the Republic of Chile and International Development Association, November 19, 2004. Loan
Number 7269-CL

SUBDERE. Informe de Cierre del PIR. Informe País. Abril 2012 (Final Version)

“Evaluacion Social y Ambiental Independiente del Programa de Infraestructura rural para el
Desarrollo Territorial, PIRDT – Informe Final?. KRISOL y CAPABLANCA Ltds, Febrero 2012

“Informe de Cierre PMDT-1 Territorio Borde Costero Norte – Region de Coquimbo?. Diciembre
2011

“Informe de Cierre PMDT-1 Territorio Corredor del Limarí – Region de Coquimbo?. Diciembre
2011

“Informe de Cierre PMDT-1 Territorio Cuenca del Choapa – Region de Coquimbo?. Diciembre
2011

“Informe de Cierre PMDT-1 Territorio Valle Interior – Region de Coquimbo?. Diciembre 2011

“Informe Experiencias Exitosas Borde Costero Nrte – Region de Coquimbo?. Febrero 2011

“Informe de Cierre – Territorio Cuenca del Mataquito – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial
PMDT 1 Generación?. UGR de Maule, Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – Territorio Talca Poniente – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT 1
Generación?. UGR de Maule, Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – Territorio Embalse Ancoa – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT 1
Generación?. UGR de Maule, Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – PMDT CONAF – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT 1
Generación?. UGR de Maule, Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial Borde Costero Sur Pacífico Sur?.
Región de Los Lagos, Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial Palena 2?. Región de Los Lagos,
Enero 2012

“Informe de Cierre – Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial Chiloé?. Región de Los Lagos, Enero
2012


                                                                                            66
“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Territorio Pencopolitano – Subterritorio los
Cerezos?. Region Bio Bio, Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Quiebrafrenos?. Region Bio Bio,
Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Santa Rosa?. Region Bio Bio,
Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Secano Transicion?. Region Bio
Bio, Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Tanilvoro?. Region Bio Bio, Marzo
2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Guanilihue Batuco?. Region Bio
Bio, Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Las Canoas?. Region Bio Bio,
Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Peralillo Tinajón?. Region Bio Bio,
Marzo 2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Rinconada?. Region Bio Bio, Marzo
2012

“Plan Marco de Desarrollo Territorial PMDT – Subterritorio Trancoyan Minas de Leuque?.
Region Bio Bio, Marzo 2012




                                                                                           67
