RESTRICTED
Report No. PA- 74a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SPAIN
April 29,  1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US     $1          =  Pesetas  70
Pesetas 1          =  US       $0.014
Pesetas 1,000,000  -  US      $14,286
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                   =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg  =  2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                  =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2) -100 ha =  0.39 square mile - 247.11 acres
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2        =  2.47 acres
1 meter (m)                       =  1.09 yards
1 millimeter (mm)                 =  0.0394 inch
1 liter (1)                       =  0.26 US gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GDP                =  Gross Domestic Product
INIA               =  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Agronomicas
CSIC               -  Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Cientificas
Ph.D.              m  Doctor of Philosophy



SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......     .......................    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION      ................................           1
II. BACKGROUND ................-                                   2
A.   Agriculture in the Spanish Economy    ........     2
B.   Present Status of Agricultural Research  ...       3
C.   Present Status of Agricultural Extension           6
D.   Other Supporting Services and Farmer
Incentives   ..............................      7
III.   THE PROJECT .........................................         7
A.   Description   ...............................      7
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing ....     ..........    10
C.   Organization and Management ....     ...........    12
D.   Disbursement ..............................       14
E.   Procurement and Audit .....      ................    14
IV.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................  .     15
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................       15
All mission members, Dr. C.P. McMeekan, Professor L. Crowder,
Professor R. Evenson, Dr. S. Fraiberg, Professor R. Hagan, and Dr. L. Johnson
(Consultants), contributed to this report. Dr. C.P. McMeekan was primarily
responsible for its preparation.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Economy - A Composite Review
2.   National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal
Production for the Arid Zones of Spain at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research of Extremadura near Badajoz
3.   National Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables at the
Research and Agrarian Development Center of the Ebro near Zaragoza
4.   National Research Center for Plant Oils at the Regional
Center for Agronomic Research of Andalucia at Cordoba
5.   National Research Center for Cereals and Grain Legumes at El Encin
aext to the Regional Center for Agronomic Research near Alcala
de Henares
6.   National Research Center for Citrus at the Regional Center for
Agronomic Research of Levante near Valencia
7.   National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal
Production for the Humid Zones of Spain at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research near La Coruna
8.   Terms of Reference for Overseas Graduate Training Fellowships
9.   Terms of Reference of Directors and Research Coordinators
of National Research Centers
10.   Basis for Estimating Building and Equipment Costs
11.   Economic Benefits and Justification
MAP - Location of National Research Centers



SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Spain has applied for a Bank loan to help
finance a Project to upgrade the standard of its agricultural research as
a prerequisite to effective exploitation of modern technology in plant and
animal production by the agricultural industry. It is the first research
project submitted by a member to the Bank for consideration. The Project
would concentrate on research priorities directly related to Government's
proposals for development of the agricultural sector.
ii.       The agricultural sector is an important element in the Spanish
economy.  It produces 16% of GDP and provides employment for about one-third
of the active population. It accounts for about 50% of total foreign trade.
During the 1960's, however, the agricultural GDP has lagged behind the
non-agricultural GDP (3.1% compared with 8.9% per annum). Though farm
exports have grown, they have not kept pace with imports so that, for the
past several years, the agricultural trade balance has been in deficit.
Currently, the deficit amounts to US$300 million annually. There is ample
scope for the sector to improve its contributions to economic development
through gains in productivity.
iii.      Spain has been slow to introduce and adapt modern technology in
plant and animal production and this has been a serious constraint to pro-
duction.  Crop yields and animal performance are substantially lower than
those of other European countries and below the potential possible. Re-
search, which is oriented toward increasing both the output and efficiency
of production of key commodities and based on adaptation of modern advances
in production techniques to the Spanish environment, could accelerate de-
velopment of the industrv.
iv.       Currently, agricultural research is in dire need of reorganiza-
tion. It is not focused on clear cut objectives and research workers of
talent are in short supply. They are dispersed over many scattered and
isolated units with far too diverse responsibilities. The Project would
help correct these deficiencies.
v.        The Project would establish six commodity-oriented specialized
research centers designed to meet national requirements for the commodities
concerned. These "National Research Centers" would be strategically located
at Regional Centers for agronomic research. The commodities covered would
be animal products (two centers), fruits and vegetables, citrus, cereals and
grain legumes, and plant oils. Together these five commodity groups would
cover 85% of the agricultural output of the country. They embrace 70% of all
major agricultural exports (fruits, vegetables, citrus, and plant oils) and
all major agricultural imports (meat and dairy produce and feed grains).



- ii -
vi.       The Project would provide the capital cost of administration,
laboratory and field buildings, furnishings, farm development, farm and
research equipment, transport, and general utilities and services essential
to the establishment of each center. In addition, it would provide a
substantial component of technical assistance (25% of Project cost) to meet
the grave shortage in Spain of experienced agricultural research talent of
the type required. The program of technical assistance would include the
recruitment of about 20 research specialists of international caliber for
service within the Project for three to five years, about 30 short-term
(two to three months) specialist consultants, and about 200 training fellow-
ships abroad for Spanish scientists.
vii.      The Project would be managed by the Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA), the chief agricultural research agency
of the Ministry of Agriculture. To strengthen the research background of
this agency, a National Research Coordinator of high international repute
would be appointed to INIA Headquarters.
viii.     The capital cost of the Project would be US$28.2 million equiva-
lent. This would include US$2.2 million equivalent for the purchase of
additional research land. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange cost,
estimated at US$12.7 million, or 49% of the Project cost, excluding land.
In addition, Government would be committed to increased annual operating
expenses of about US$7.0 million equivalent at full development after five
years.
ix.       Historically, investment in agricultural research has been justi-
fied on subjective grounds. Judged on this basis, the Project, directed
as it is to increasing output and efficiency of production of the major
agricultural commodities, would make a substantial contribution to the
economy of Spain. Quantification of benefits is speculative in view of the
uncertainties inherent in research. The rate of return, however, computed
using the best available methods, is likely to fall within a range of 15%
to 30%.
x.        The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.7 million, to
be disbursed over a five-year period. The term would be 20 years, including
five years of grace. The borrower would be the Government of Spain, which
would assume the foreign exchange risk.



SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain has applied for a Bank loan to assist
the financing of a project for reorganizing agricultural research under
the Ministry of Agriculture to accelerate the introduction to Spain of
modern production technology from which the farming industry has been
largely isolated over the past 30 years. The proposal identifies research
priorities, which cover the main agricultural commodities and are directly
related to production targets set by Government for the development of the
agricultural sector. It is the first research project to be submitted to
the Bank.
1.02      The proposal under consideration differs significantly from that
originally advanced. Initially, Government was thinking in terms of con-
centration on nine multipurpose regional research centers, each of which
would provide complete coverage of the agricultural research field. Any
specialization would accrue mainly from the ecologically determined location 1/
of the different centers. Early Bank missions did not consider this approach
feasible in view of the extreme shortage of competent agriculture research
talent in Spain. A more specialized approach would make better use of this
scarce resource. Moreover, such an approach would serve better the imme-
diate needs of the industry for crash programs. Modern trends in developed
countries, away from extreme diversification toward increasing specializa-
tion of research effort, supported the need for a change in emphasis. Ac-
cordingly, the alternative approach of only "mission-oriented" research
centers, each organized with teams of scientists formed to handle the prob-
lems of a key commodity or commodity group, was accepted by Government as
a desirable and feasible modification of the early proposals.
1.03      Appraisal is based on the findings of three Bank missions during
1970. The first in June 1970, composed of D. Stoops and J. Edwards (Bank)
and Dr. C.P. McMeekan (Consultant), drew attention to the lack of any clearly
defined research program. The second in July-August 1970, composed of
1/   As applied to agriculture, ecology means:  That combination of soil
types in its infinite variations and permutations, land contour,
dirunal and seasonal temperature variations, light intensity and
distribution, night/day rates, air movement, rainfall in quantity
and distribution, which together, not only determine the natural
and ever changing populations of micro-organisms, plants, animals,
and insects of a land area or zone, but also govern its potential land
use patterns by man.



- 2 -
F. van Gigch (Bank); C. P. McMeekan; Dr. R. Hagan, Professor of Water
Science Engineering and Coordinator of International Agriculture Programs,
University of California; Dr. S. Freiberg, Vice-President and Director of
Research of IRI Research Institute; and Dr. J. Gibler, Director Massey-
Ferguson Cereal Research Institute, Brazil (Consultants), provided guide-
lines for such a program and carried appraisal as far as was practical at
that time. The third mission of November-December 1970, composed of
C.P. McMeekan; R. Ilagan; S. Freiberg; Dr. L.V. Crowder, Professor of Inter-
national Plant Breeding, Cornell University; Dr. L. Johnson, Agricultural
Engineer, Rockefeller Foundation and Head of Engineering Departments of
the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines, and the
International Center of Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Colombia; and
Dr. R. Evenson, Associate Professor of Economics, Yale University
(Consultants), completed appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Rapid industrialization is changing the structure of the Spanish
economy in terms of composition of output and sources of employment. In
1968, the contribution of agriculture to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
was about 16%, comDared with 25% in 1960. During the same period, it is
encouraging to note that about one million workers moved from agriculture to
employment in urban activities. Yet, agriculture remains a vital sector of
the economy, employing about one-third of the active population in 1969 and
supplying also about one-third of the country's exports, principally to the
European Common Market and Great Britain, in the form of citrus fruits,
olives and olive oil, fresh and processed fruits, and vegetables. However,
in spite of steady growth in agricultural exports, the balance of agricul-
tural trade remained in deficit during the 1960's. This has contributed to
Spain's chronic balance of payments problem. During 1968, the value of
agricultural exports was about US$700 million equivalent, US$300 million
equivalent short of agricultural imports, consisting principally of beef,
feed grains, oil and oil cakes, tropical products, and raw materials such
as wood, wool, and skins and hides. With appropriate technology, the sub-
stantial agricultural resources of Spain could be used to replace major
imports of agricultural products such as beef, feed grains, and oil-bearing
seeds. This is a major objective of Government.
2.02      Tradition and many years of isolation from the rest of the world
have preserved inefficient forms of farming characterized by small and
fragmented farms where primitive production and marketing techniques are
practiced. The major barrier to breaking this pattern has been not knowing
hiow to shift to more efficient forms of production.  Water is often used
iniefficientlv because irrigation requirements for alternative cropping
patterns have not been adequately explored; large areas with high level
livestock productivity have not developed because the potentials of native
and improved pastures are not appreciated. The adjustment problems of



- 3 -
Spanish agriculture are further complicated by a need to relate production
to competition in the Common Market in the midst of growing labor scarcity
caused by rapid migrations to other industries. This adjustment involves
identifying market potentials for Spanish agriculture, changing cropping
patterns to such market potentials, consolidating farms and exploring the
possibilities of mechanization, adapting highly productive crop varieties
and animal types, and utilizing modern farm inputs such as fertilizers
and pesticides and animal feeding techniques, as well as adapting produc-
tion patterns to local ecological conditions. Annex 1, Table 2, illustrates
the gains that must be made before yields can reach levels comparable with
other European countries. A further priority area is improved quality,
processing, packaging, storage, transport, and sales promotion of various
commodities, especially fruits and vegetables.
2.03      One of the main problems to be overcome in achieving the required
adjustments is the lack of technological information. Unless research is
implemented quickly, the competitive position of Spanish agriculture could
be seriously impaired and the industry could fail to contribute effectively
to economic growth. However, the translation of research efforts into
agricultural development would depend not only on the availability of other
essential inputs but, also, on how research resources would be oriented.
Given that such resources -- particularly research talent -- are in scarce
supply, it is important that the reorganization of agricultural research
emphasize mission-oriented research, geared to solving specific high-prior-
ity problems. Furthermore, in view of the wealth of practical agricultural
knowledge developed in various parts of the world, which has not yet been
tapped by Spain, it is essential that, in the immediate future, a major
portion of the agricultural research work be of the adaptive type. Annex 1
reviews the agricultural economy, with special reference to the commodities
with which the Project is mainly concerned.
B. Present Status of Agricultural Research
2.04      Research in agriculture is carried out under several Ministries --
Agriculture, Education and Science, Public Works, and Air -- and the
Presidency. In addition, Provincial Governments sponsor local research, as
do savings banks, private companies, and private research associations sub-
sidized by Government. Together, these agencies operate over 200 individual
research units. Most of these are small and work is uncoordinated. The
annual expenditures of the main organizations amounted to about US$14.7
million equivalent in 1968, representing about 0.3% of the agricultural
gross product of US$5.3 billion. At least three times this ratio is typical
of advanced agricultural countries.
2.05      There are two key research organizations:  the Instituto Nacional
de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA), an autonomous entity of the Ministry
of Agriculture, and the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas
(CSIC), a similarly organized agency of the Ministry of Education and Science.
These agencies are approximately equal in size, but differ radically in
scope and efficiency.



-4-
2.06      INIA depends functionally and administratively on the Director
General of Agriculture and has some legal and financial autonomy. It oper-
ates with a Central Board and a headquarters staff headed by a President, Vice-
President, and Secretary General. It has 49 separate research centers or
units, employing a total of about 500 professional and technical staff,
with an annual budget of about US$7.1 million equivalent. Its activities are
widelv dispersed and fragmented. In a recent decree (2809/1970 of 12
September), its functions and responsibilities were consolidated into eight
main regional centers in continental Spain. This consolidation sets the
stage for the research Project under consideration.
2.07      The majority of the professional staff of INIA has not had formal
research training. Most are Ingeniero Agronomos, graduates of the Superior
Technical Schools of Agriculture. With few exceptions, members of this
professional group are inadequately trained for research, uninformed on
developments in their specialties, both within and outside of Spain, with
the majority supplementing research salaries by other employment. There are
no recognized salary grades. The group is poorly supported by technical and
field assistants, transport, libraries, and other essential research services.
2.08      It is not surprising, therefore, that the average performance of
the INIA research organization is poor. Generally, its resources are poorly
utilized, and land, buildings, and equipment facilities vary considerably.
In particular, competent scientific leadership has not been available, al-
though there are some notable exceptions. A few dedicated scientists have
made solid progress in their specialized fields, particularly in varietal
selection and plant improvement. One center also stands out as making
useful contributions. This is the combined INIA-CSIC unit of El Ebro and
Aula Dei at Zaragoza, where the work on fruits is well planned and executed
and where a beginning in agricultural economics, under the stimulus of OECD
assistance, is taking place. It is obvious from this cooperative develop-
ment that, with appropriate changes in leadership, staff training, and
conditions of employment, together with a planned and purposeful research
program, improvement in performance of INIA is feasible.
2.09      The CSIC organization is essentially an outgrowth of the Univer-
sity of Spain with which it is closely allied under the Ministry of Educa-
tion and Science. Though important, agriculture is but one of its many
research interests, which virtually cover all scientific fields. Organiza-
tion is through various "patronatos," or foundations, each of which has
considerable operational autonomy.
2.10      Agriculture is the special concern of the Patronato Alonso de
Hlerrera de Ciencias Naturales y Agrarias, which operates 16 major research
units throughout Spain directly related to agriculture, employing about 500
professional and technical staff. It has an annual budget of about US$7.1
million equivalent. Most of the 300 professionals are university graduates
in science or pharmacv. A large proportion hold doctorates, based on research
training and performance, and many hold overseas Ph.D. research degrees.
Few Ingeniero Agronomos are employed. Two other patronatos have specific
agriculttural research interests in food technology, aninal nutrition, and



- 5 -
meat and wool production. Most patronatos have little if any land so that
laboratory-type research is the main activity. This, along with the uni-
versity and, in particular, teaching affiliations of staff, has channeled
research more along academic than applied lines.
2.11      The quality and type of research work of INIA and CSIC are thus in
marked contrast. In particular, specialized centers of CSIC at Valencia,
Sevilla, Madrid, and Murcia, handling food processing and plant oil processing,
are internationally recognized for their contributions. The World Citrus
Congress and the World Food Technology Conference of 1971 and 1972 are
scheduled for Murcia and Valencia, respectivelv.
2.12      The Bank considered the feasibility of supporting CSIC instead of
INIA on an expanded and more production-oriented basis. Many forces were
against this. The Ministry of Education and Science was unwilling to con-
sider handing over its agricultural research operations to the Ministry
of Agriculture. Key CSIC personnel were averse to becoming intimately as-
sociated with the practical aspects of agriculture, preferring their "aca-
demic freedom" and "university associations." The Ministry of Agriculture
was insistent that applied research in agriculture be geared to develop-
mental plans and operations of Government for which it and not the Ministry
of Education is responsible. In this political and social climate, radical
changes in approach were not feasible.
2.13      Both the Ministry of Agriculture and INIA Headquarters were deeply
conscious of the deficiencies outlined above and support proposals under
the Project to remedy them. Current leadership is particularly concerned
with upgrading the training levels of research and technical staff and, to
this end, seeks a short-term solution by the provision of overseas training
fellowships for young scientists, along with on-job training of local staff
with the assistance of highly qualified research specialists recruited from
abroad. The need for a longer term solution through reorganization of higher
level education is appreciated. The Government has solicited Bank interest
in this and would expect full integration of any educational changes with
the proposed research Project. Dramatic changes in the system of employment
of scientists are also considered by Government as essential and are to be
implemented (para 3.05).
2.14      Summing up, agricultural research in Spain is badly in need of
reorganization and upgrading. This is especially true of work in the field,
with which the Project would be mainly concerned and where most of the pre-
sent research is irrelevant. There is appreciation of this need at the
highest levels in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education
and Science, which strongly support the Government's request for Bank
assistance for research reorganization and reorientation.



- 6 -
C. Present Status of Agricultural Extension
2.15      Since the use of research findings in practice is partly dependent
apon an advisory service geared to take results to the farmer, the status
of agricultural extension in Spain is of significance to the proposed Proj-
ect. Agricultural extension in Spain is the responsibility of the Ministry
vDf Agriculture, under the Directorate for Agricultural Training. This
Directorate maintains 615 rural extension agencies, with a further 65 cur-
rently in the process of establishment. An additional 85 agencies are
planned for 1971.
2.16      These agencies are organized into 11 regions, each with a
regional center and coordinating staff. Each region, in turn, manages
several zone offices, each of which supervises about 10 rural agencies.
A typical rural agency is staffed by an extension agent, an assistant, a
home economist, and a secretary. Total staff in 1969 was 1,870, made up of
90 specialists (all Ingenieros Agronomos), 1,560 general agents with some
technical qualifications, and 220 administrative personnel.
2.17      The service is relatively young, dating from 1956.  It has de-
veloped quite independently of research, even of the research units within
the same Ministry. Though controlled from Madrid, its operations are es-
sentially decentralized, with the regional units given a high degree of
autonomy. The service draws mainly upon its ongoing experience and upon
limited contact with the production technology of developed countries. This
situation seriously limits the quality of its work, as does the relatively
small staff in relation to the number of farmers to be serviced. The ratio
of one extension officer to 1,600 farmers is low compared with the more
advanced agricultural countries, but high compared with many undeveloped
ones.
2.18      The service was unwilling to accept major ties with research, as
proposed under the Project originally submitted to the Bank, because of
fears of possibly losing existing independence in operation. However, its
leaders admit freely the fruitfulness of the liaison that developed at a
research center -- Zaragoza -- through the location there of two extension
specialists. This has resulted in many hundreds of requests each year from
extension agents throughout Spain for advice that only research can provide,
as well as in cooperative programs for on-farm testing of varieties of ap-
ples, pears, and peaches on 89 farms in the region. Clearly, the strength-
ening of research, as proposed under the Project, could not only improve
considerably the efficiency of the extension service but help bring about
the liaison that must exist between the two groups. The Zaragoza approach
could well be extended to all agricultural research centers in the country.
The Project would provide for this. Some organizational restructuring by
the Minister of Agriculture at high levels to bring about continuing con-
sultation on policy and operational issues could begin the process of
ensuring better cooperation between the two services. This restructuring
has begun with a new decree, designed to achieve greater organizational
coordination at all levels (para 3.17).



D. Other Supporting Services and Farmer Incentives
2.19      Farmer acceptance of extension advice based on research also de-
pends to a large extent on the economic environment -- price and tax poli-
cies, availability of inputs and investment goods at reasonable prices, and
availability of credit on suitable terms -- as well as on market outlets of
sufficient scale to absorb production increases.  The Spanish Government is
in process of changing its pricing policies and marketing controls, which,
in the past, have favored wheat and rice production (both now in surplus),
to give more emphasis to livestock and feed grain production. It has also
taken steps to make medium- and long-term credit available for livestock
development under a Bank livestock loan (Loan 633-SP), which is expected to
open the way for further rationalization of the agricultural credit structure.
Farm inputs, such as fertilizer, pesticides, fuel, and machinery, are readily
available at prices competitive with international levels. Taxes do not
seem to be a serious disincentive to farmers, and rates, based on actual or
potential earnings, are low and provide generous deductions for approved
farm investments.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project would upgrade the standard of agricultural research
in Spain as a prerequisite to effective exploitation of modern technology in
plant and animal production by the agricultural industry. It is, thus, a
key element in the Government's plan for national development of the agri-
cultural and livestock sector of the economy.
3.02      Upgrading would be achieved by restructuring INIA and reorienting
its research emphasis away from diverse regional activities and toward
specialized activities on a commodity basis. The Project would establish
specialized research centers, directed toward agricultural commodities of
national economic significance. Specific research programs at each center
would be in accordance with priorities justified by national development
plans for the commodity or commodities concerned. Research would be orga-
nized to adapt and apply modern technological principles and practices of
proven merit, and designed to meet the specific needs and conditions of
Spanish agriculture and livestock production. Basic research would be sim-
ilarly oriented but would, at a minimum, be consistent with the need to
attract and retain imaginative staff who would stimulate new thinking and
approaches.
3.03      The Project would establish six specialized centers located at
the Regional Agricultural Research Centers of INIA. Their development and



- 8 -
operation would have priority over regional research activities of the sta-
tions concerned. To ensure their individual autonomv within the system,
each center would be specifically named a National Research Center for the
commodity or commodity group involved. The six centers and their locations
(see Map) would be:
(a)  National Research Center for Pastures, Forages  and Animal
Production for the arid zones of Spain at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research of Extremadura near Badajoz in the
West (Annex 2);
(b)  National Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables at the
Research and Agrarian Development Center of the Ebro near
Zaragoza in the Northeast (Annex 3);
(c) National Research Center for Plant Oils at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research of Andalucia at Cordoba in the Southwest
(Annex 4);
(d)  National Research Center for Cereals and Grain Legumes at El
Encin next to the Regional Center for Agronomic Research near
Alcala de Henares (Annex 5);
(e) National Research Center for Citrus at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research of Levante near Valencia in the East
(Annex 6); and
(f) National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal
Production for the humid zones of Spain at the Regional
Center for Agronomic Research of the North and Northwest
near La Coruna (Annex 7).
Together, the five groups of commodities involved account for about 85%
of the total value of current agricultural production in Spain.
3.04      Justification of each National Research Center, its research
priorities, staffing requirements, building and equipment needs, and estab-
lishment costs are shown separately in Annexes 2 through 7. Each center
would be staffed by well balanced teams whose research effort would be
geared to the commodity group concerned, with the objective of providing
new emphasis and fitting new techniques into the farming patterns, not only
for the ecological zone in which the center is located, but throughout Spain.
Accordingly, each center would have a strong farm management element. Addi-
tional land would be acquired by Government for the Natlonal Research Centers
at Zaragoza, Cordoba, Valencia, and La Coruna. That this land had been
acquired would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan, as agreed during
negotiations.



- 9 -
3.05      An essential component of the Project would be the develolpmletit
of terms of employment for professional and technical personnel to permit
full-time dedication to research work under the Project. Hours of work,
currently confined to morning and early afternoons, are not organized
to permit this. Since INIA terms of employment and salaries are not geared
to the public service system, major changes to obtain full-time work are
feasible without implications on the public service salaries of the country.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that appropriate changes in
employment conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be made. The onlv
exception to full-time research employment envisaged under the Project would
be for selected personnel whose part-time participation in university-level
teaching would be approved by the President of INIA. In particular, the
facilities of INIA would be available for graduate student training in
research and their use would be encouraged.
3.06      To assist in upgrading the quality and quantity of research talent
available, the Project would provide about 200 training fellowships of dif-
ferent types to permit selected personnel of INIA, CSIC, and the extension
service to obtain training abroad in modern production technology and re-
search and extension techniques. Assurances that a Fellowship Training
Program for scientists would be established, with conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, were obtained during negotiation. Details of fellowship
proposals are set out in Annex 8. These were agreed during negotiations.
3.07      To ensure success of the proposed specialized institute approach,
the Project would provide two to four research specialists per center (about
20 in total) in selected fields essential to effective operation. One of
these would act as Research Coordinator at each center (para 3.19 and Annex 9).
Since these specialists are not available in Spain, they would be recruited
abroad on a contract basis to serve for three to five years. They would
assist INIA scientists in developing and participating in effective field
research programs, arranging on-job training of local staff, assisting in the
selection of personnel for training fellowships, and in the locating and
guiding of fellows abroad. Centers would also have access to high-level
specialist short-term consultants (about 30 in total) to meet special needs
and would plan the use of such consultants in terms of training functions,
cooperating staff, and supplies and equipment well in advance so as to take
full advantage of their potential contribution (Annexes 2 through 7). Appro-
priate assurances were obtained during negotiations that the research
specialists and consultants would be appointed and that their terms of
reference and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank.
3.08      To strengthen the quality of research leadership at INIA, the
Project provides for the appointment to Headquarters of a senior agricultural
scientist of international repute as National Research Coordinator (para 3.18).
His appointment, including terms and conditions, would be subject to Bank
approval and would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 10 -
3.09      The Project would aim at maximum cooperation from CSIC.  CSIC
would provide, under contract (para 3.21), food processing and marketing
services for the National Research Centers for fruits and vegetables, plant
oils, and citrus (para 3.03) from its food processing laboratories at
Valencia, Sevilla, and Murcia. Full and continuing cooperation with the
Aula Dei group of CSIC at the Zaragoza Center (para 2.08) would also be
achieved under the Project. INIA would not limit recruitment of staff to
Ingenieros Agronomos but would hire graduates in science and veterinary
science in line with the requirements of the research programs.
3.10      The Project would also provide for the location of at least two
regional extension specialists at each center to expand effective liaison
between research and extension groups. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that this would be done and that full use of these facilities
would be made by the extension service.
B. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.11      Total Project cost is estimated at US$28.2 million, including
US$2.2 million for land purchase. The foreign exchange component is
approximately US$12.7 million, or 45% of total. Excluding land, capital
inputs, mainly for buildings, equipment, land development, and services,
amount to US$15.5 million, or 60% of total. Technical services account
for US$6.5 million, or 25% of total (excluding land). Contingencies have
been allowed at US$4.0 million, or 15% of total (excluding land), to compensate
for some uncertainty in building costs, since the buildings concerned would
be designed during the construction period. Excluding land, the foreign
exchange cost amounts to 49% of capital requirements. Project costs are
summarized as follows:



- 11 -
--Pesetas (million)--   --US$ (thousands) --   %   %
Category                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total TPC FEC
Capital Inputs
Buildings              347.8   86.9    434.7    4,968  1,242  6,210   22   20
Furnishings            162.9   54.5    217.4    2,327    778  3,105   11   25
Farm Development        31.8    8.0      39.8       455    115    570    2   20
Research Equipment      54.5  162.9    217.4        778  2,327  3,105   11   75
Farm Equipment          14.5   14.5      29.0       207    207    414    2   50
Automobiles and Trucks 21.7   21.8       43.5       310    311    621    2   50
Services and Utilities 51.9   52.3    104.2         742    747  1L489    5   50
Subtotal           685.1  400.9  1,086.0    9,787  5,727 15,514   55   37
Technical Services
Research Specialists   97.2  194.0       291.2   1,388  2,772   4,160  15   67
Consultants              8.4   16.8       25.2      120    240      360   1   67
Training Fellowships    -    140.0       140.0      -    2,000   2,000   7  100
Subtotal           105.6  350.8      456.4   1,508  5,012   6,520  23   77
Contingencies           140.0  140.0      280.0   2,000  2,000   4,000  14   50
Total (Excluding
Land)           930.7  891.7   1,822.4  13,295 12, 739  26,034  92   49
Land Purchase           154.0    -        154.0   2,200    -       2200 8
Total Project
Cost           1,084.7  891.7   1,976.4  15,495 12_,7    28,234 100   45
3.12      The cost estimates for buildings and other capital inputs are
subject to some uncertainty.  They would be firmed up during the design
period. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the borrower
would contract with a consulting organization, approved by the Bank, to
design, quantity survey, and prepare for tender purposes, plans, and specifi-
cations for provision of requisite facilities at each National Research Center.
The basis of computation for present estimates is described in Annex 10 and
that for individuial research centers in Annexes 2 through 7. They have been
derived from Rockefeller Foundation experience in constructing International
Research Institutes, modified to conform with building costs in Spain.
3.13      Buildings would include air-conditioned office accoimmodation
for administrative, professional, and technical staff; air-conditioned
laboratories related to the research specialty of each center and the sci-
entific disciplines of staff; greenhouses, cool rooms, storage buildings,
and farm buildings for crops; and hay barns, silos, workshops, corrals,
milking parlors, and rearing, fattening, and indoor housing barns for
livestock. Building standards for structures of these types are high in
Spain.



- 12 -
3.14      Farm development costs would include land clearing, roads, fences,
land smoothing and terracing, irrigation, and drainage to develop fully the
land potential for production and demonstration and to facilitate research
operations.  Unit costs are shown in Annex 10.  Equipment would be of two
types -- farm and research. The former would include tractors, cultivating
equipment, planting and harvesting machinery, and farm trucks. Laboratory
equipment would cover a normal range relevant to the specific research
projects, including libraries.
3.15      Estimates for the costs of the technical service component are
reasonably firm, being based on Bank experience with the cost of profes-
sional-level specialists and post-graduate training abroad. The cost re-
presents a capital investment during construction for the creation of a
large nucleus of agricultural research skills. Research specialists would
contribute directly to the research program and train local personnel of
both professional and technical levels in research philosophy and techniques.
Consultants, likewise, would make a useful training contribution. These
would be recruited as necessary for two- to three-month assignments at each
National Research Center. Fellowships would be organized to provide the
kind of experience and competence needed. The cadre of local talent thus
provided would be available in the future without the need for continuing
foreign aid.
3.16      The Bank would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost, which
approximates 49% of total Project cost. The borrower would also be
responsible for a separate capital contribution equivalent to US$2.2 mil-
lion for purchase of additional land (Annexes 3, 4, 6, and 7) and for addi-
tional annual operating expenses of US$7.0 million equivalent at full develop-
ment.
C. Organization and Management
3.17      An appropriate basis for Project organization and management has
been established by Government through two new decrees. One creates a
National Coordinating Council for Agricultural Research, under the Pres-
idency of the Minister of Agriculture and, in addition, formalizes coordina-
tion of research and extension within the Ministry at all levels. This
Council would facilitate effective operation of the Project in cooperation
with other research organizations and ensure dissemination of results by
better liaison with extension. The second decree restructures INIA by
consolidating its functions, providing for the elimination of redundant
research units, and defining eight regional areas of endeavor within
continental Spain. The Project would operate within six of these regions.
The other two are not involved with research of the type covered by the
Project.



- 13 -
3.18      The Project would be managed by INTA, whose Chief Executive Offi-
cer, its President, would be responsible under the Project primarily for
policy making and administration. He would determine research priorities
and guidelines and would approve research projects submitted by center
directors. The National Research Coordinator (para 3.08) would assist
management in coordinating research plans and programs, including the
evaluation of proposals of National Research Center Directors and selection
of key Project personnel.
3.19      Directors of National Research Centers would normally be the
Directors of the Regional Research Centers at which they are located and
their appointments would be subject to Bank approval and a condition of
disbursement. They would be assisted by Research Coordinators in overall
planning of research operations, planning of center development in terms of
buildings and other facilities, selection of research projects within the
policy laid down by the INIA President and within center allocation of research
funds, and implementation of approved research projects. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a Research Coordinator, selected from the
cadre of research specialists contracted under the Project (para 3.07), would
be appointed at each center under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Their appointment would be a condition of disbursement. Annex 9 proposes
detailed responsibilities of National Research Center Directors and Research
Coordinators, respectively. These were agreed during negotiations.
3.20      The borrower would contract with a scientific organization with
appropriate experience to employ the research personnel that would be
recruited abroad (paras 3.07, 3.08, and 3.19) under the Project. It would
also assist in arranging the training fellowships mentioned in paragraph
3.06. The Rockefeller Foundation, the Ford Foundation, IRI Research
Institute, and the British Agricultural Council are examples of the type
of organization that could fulfill this role. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that such an organization would be retained under terms
of reference and contract conditions acceptable to the Bank. Government has
already reached an advanced stage of discussions with several agencies and
loan documents would be signed as soon as a satisfactory contract has been
entered into.
3.21      INIA would enter into contractual arrangements with CSIC with
respect to food processing and soil and water research at the Valencia,
Murcia, Madrid, and Sevilla laboratories. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. The Project would not duplicate food pro-
cessing research facilities of CSIC. Similar contractual arrangements would
be made to ensure continuity of cooperation with the Aula Dei Center at
Zaragoza. The Bank would be consulted in the development of such contracts
or on anv changes subsequently found necessary during the construction period
of the Project.
3.22      In view of the unique and highly complex character of the Project,
which Involves a very unusual supervisory role, the Bank would recruit, on
retainership, a group of three scientists of top-level reputation. This
group would visit Spain at six monthly intervals with a Bank staff member
to assess progress and to advise INIA and the Bank on desirable changes
and to assist the Bank in normal Project supervision functions.



- 14 -
3.23      An organizational chart of the proposed centers and their rela-
tionship to other research bodies is shown in Annex 2.,
D. Disbursement
3.24      The proceeds of the loan would be used to meet the direct identi-
fiable foreign exchange costs of research specialists, consultants, and
training fellowships; the direct identifiable foreign exchange cost of im-
ported scientific equipment; and approximately 25% of the cost of remaining
capital inputs (buildings (20%); furnishings (25%); farm development (20%);
farming equipment, trucks, and automobiles (50%); and services and utilities
(50%)), this being the weighted average foreign exchange component of these
costs. Disbursement is estimated to follow the pattern shown below:
Disbursement Schedule /1
(USs $'0)
Year
1      t2       3        4      5     Total
Capital Inputs                     900    2,000   1,900  L1900    -    6,700
Technical Services                 700.   1,500   1,600   1,500   700   6,000
Total                  1 600    3 500   3,500   3,400   700  12,700
/1   Including contingencies of US$2 million.
E.  Procurement and Audit
3.25      In accordance with standard Bank procedures, international bids
would be obtained by the borrower in respect to erection of buildings and
provision of furnishings, services and utilities.  Scientific equipment
is not suited to procurement by, international competitive bidding procedures
and would be obtained on specification and recommendation of Center Directors
and Research Coordinators. Farm equipment, trucks, and automobiles would be
procured locally under standard competitive tender procedures of Government.
All substantial international firms handling this equipment operate in Spain.
Technical services would be contracted by, the borrower with an agency approved
bv the Bank. INIA would maintain separate accounts for each research center
of expenditures incurred under the Project. Such accounts would be subject
t'o normal audit procedures of Government. The borrower would furnish such
.'ditt'ed accounts within three months of the close of the borrower's fiscal
V1'V..  Anproprinte asstirances were obtained during negotiations.



- 15 -
IV. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Because the type of research that would be carried out would be
directed specifically to the introduction and adaptation of modern technology
of tested and proven profitability in countries similar to Spain, the econom-
ic benefits would be substantial. The margin available for increasing effi-
ciency is very great in view of the present low level of performance in
many sectors of production. The modification of existing farming systems
to incorporate new methods and new products alone could produce worthwhile
dividends. The fields to be covered involve all malor commodities and the
work would be directed especially toward foreign exchange earning and saving
potentials. Some increase in the efficiency of production of each commodity
is a reasonable expectation. A major breakthrough in one or more, as meat
or feed grain products, is not unlikely.
4.02      Any attempt to quantify the economic benefits from agricultural
research must be highly speculative in view of the uncertainty component in
the research process. Historically, for this reason, research endeavor has
always been justified by subjective judgments of the type made above. In
recent years, the possibility of a quantitative approach has been examined.
Economists have tackled the problem by trying to quantify returns to an
economy from specific research discoveries. Hybrid corn is an example.
These studies have led to methods that delineate the range within which
benefits from the research are likely to have fallen. While application of
the methods evolved to research yet to be done may be of questionable merit,
particularly because the uncertainties are even greater than those involved
in completed research, such an analysis has been attempted in the present
case. The results suggest that benefits from the proposed Project are likely
to fall between a lower limit of 15% and an upper limit of 30% (Annex 11).
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  INIA would make changes satisfactory to the Bank in the conditions
of employment of its scientists and technicians to obtain full-time
employment in research (para 3.05);
(b)  INIA would establish a Fellowship Training Program for scientists,
with conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.06);
(c)  INIA would contract the services of about 20 research specialists
and about 30 research consultants for work at the National Research
Centers, with terms of reference and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.07);



- 16 -
(d) the agricultural extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture
would locate at least two regional extension specialists at each
National Research Center and that full use of the facilities
provided would be made by the extension service (para 3.10);
(e)  INIA would contract with a consulting organization, approved by
the Bank, to design, quantity survey, and prepare for tender pur-
poses, plans and specifications for provision of buildings,
utilities and services, and furnishings for each National Research
Center (para 3.12); and
(f) INIA would enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with CSIC for the provision of research services on food
processing and soil and water at the appropriate laboratories
of CSIC at Valencia, Murcia, Madrid, and Sevilla (para 3.21).
5.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) INIA had identified and provided evidence of the necessary action
to acquire the additional land required to establish the National
Research Centers at Zaragoza, Cordoba, Valencia, and La Coruna in
areas and locations satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.04); and
(b) INIA had appointed a senior agricultural scientist of international
repute, approved by the Bank and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as National Research Coordinator
at INIA Headquarters (para 3.08).
5.03      Prior to loan signing, INIA would contract with an agency, acceptable
to the Bank, for the hiring of the National Research Coordinator, Research
Center Coordinators, research specialists, and research consultants, and for
arranging the Fellowship Training Programs under the Project under terms of
reference and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.20).
5.04      Conditions of disbursement in respect to any individual National
Research Center would be that a Director, approved by the Bank, and a Research
Coordinator, satisfactory to the Bank and with terms of reference approved
by the Bank, had been appointed by INIA (para 3.19).
5.05      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.7 million.  The
term would be 20 years, including five years of grace. The borrower would
be the Government of Spain, which would assume the foreign exchange risk.
April 26, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
The Agricultural EconRmy - A Com   ite Review
1.01      Despite its steadily declining importance in the Spanish economy
(Table 1), agriculture produces 16% of GDP and provides emnloyment to
30% of the active population. The share of agricultural exports in total
foreign trade has for a long time been standing at 50% or more.  Although
farm exports have continued to grow at some 12% per year since 1965, they
have not kept pace with non-farm exports and in 1969 represented only 40%
of all exports. For the past several years. the agricultural trade balance
has been in deficit. The size of deficit has varied during the last years
between US$175 million and US$290 million. The principal and fastest grow-
ing imports have been feed grains, beef, and oil seeds.
1.02      In spite of its declining weight in the economy, the agricultural
sector has made a considerable contribution to Spain's rapid economic growth,
in particular during the early part of the 1960's. Although non-agricultural
GDP has increased faster than agricultural GDP (during 1960-69, respectively,
by 8.9% and 3.1% per annum in constant 1964 prices), growth per active per-
son employed was somewhat faster in agriculture (see Table 1). This can be
taken to indicate that the increase in labor productivity in agriculture
has been above the increase for the average for the economyl/. This is
because the relatively slow growing agricultural product was produced by
a smaller farm labor force, while the rapid expansion in other sectors was
partly due to an expansion in their labor forces. Indeed, while total active
population has increased by about 0.8% per year, the labor force in agricul-
ture has been diminishing rapidly, particularly since the mid-1950's.
Initially, the outflow consisted solely of farm workers, but, at present, farm
operators are also leaving the sector. While many of those released by agri-
culture went to work in sectors with higher average productivity, others went
abroad and have been contributing to the balance of payments through their
salary remittances. During the period 1961-69, the drop in farm labor
represented some 37% of the additional labor employed elsewhere in the econ-
omy or abroad. A further sign of agriculture's contribution to recent eco-
nomic growth concerns the effectiveness of agricultural investments. Calcu-
lations of the incremental capital/output ratio yield a more favorable result
for agriculture than for the economy as a whole, especially if changes in
the labor force are taken into account (see Table 1). This phenomenon may be
indicative of the relative attractiveness of further investments in agricul-
ture.
1/   In absolute terms, productivity and incomes in agriculture remain
considerably below the country's average.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
1.03      In spite of the decline in the labor force, agricultural output
has been growing quite satisfactorily. The livestock sector in particular
has seen its output growing at some 4% per year during the past decade,
total crop production has been growing at the somewhat lower rate of 2.5%
per year. Policy changes have lagged behind demand changes and production
has not always followed the changing demand pattern. The wheat sector has
caused some problems as the commodity was clearly over-priced as compared
with international prices, while surpluses had to be exported at a loss.
Another problem area was beef and veal. Increased incomes led to increased
demand. Following the rise in demand, the number of cattle slaughtered
increased and it was only when the very existence of the national herd was
seriously threatened that imports were allowed. Current policy changes in
both the wheat and beef sectors are likely to have a beneficial effect on the
situation. Indeed, wheat acreage has been going down steadily although,
because of favorable yields, total production still is in surplus. In the
livestock field, several measures have been introduced, both under the First
and Second Development Plans, to increase the production and production
potential of beef and veal. Among these, the 1969 Bank Livestock Loan should
be mentioned. Unfortunately, a very serious drought in the latter part of
1970 has upset the favorable trend in the cattle sector. In the future,
overall domestic demand is likely to develop slowly but there will be a
further shift towards certain types of food, such as beef, veal, fruits and
vegetables. For these products and also for feed grains, oil seeds, and
some others, there still exists an additional domestic outlet, while the
prospects for foreign demand depend largely on the future relationship with
the Common Market.
1.04      Labor has to a large extent been substituted by capital use, in-
vestments, both on the farm level and by the public authorities, have increased
very rapidly during the 1960's. IThile the public investments have been
mainly in irrigation and to some extent in reafforestation, land conserva-
tion, and general rural development, the on-farm investment has been mainly
in machinery. The number of tractors has been increasing by about 25,000
per year and the number of combine harvesters by about 4,000 per year.
Mechanization has been accompanied by an increased use of other inputs such
as fertilizers and pesticides; between 1958 and 1968, the expenditure on fer-
tilizers has increased threefold. As capital use is expected to increase
still further, a smooth and efficient agricultural credit system is indis-
pensable. This does not exist at present.
1.05      With overall outlets likely to grow only slowly, the major contri-
bution agriculture can make to further economic development is through fur-
ther productivity gains. Although Spain has made some progress in developing
and spreading better farm techniques, there is considerable room for im-
provement. Cereal yields in Spain are substantially below those obtained in
other European countries. The same is true for a number of other crops and
livestock products (Table 2). Yield increases have taken somewhat longer
to achieve in Spain than in other countries. It is difficult to attrib-
ute this slow development to any one particular factor but the use of fer-
tilizer is still much below the quantities used in other countries.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Productivity increases are necessary if Spain does not want to lose its com-
petitive position in certain foreign markets. For a number of products,
Spanish prices are well above prices in other countries (Table 3).
1.06      While the relatively slow growth of agricultural output is not
necessarily a worrying factor, since it reflects a movement of surplus
labor out of agriculture, year to year fluctuations, caused by extreme
weather conditions, are disturbing for a number of reasons. During the
period 1960 to 1968, the average annual growth rate of agricultural GDP was
3.1% but the standard deviation was 6.3, compared with 2.7 for the non-agri-
cultural sectors as a whole. Most of the difficulty caused by the fluctua-
tions in output (which vary in size throughout the country but tend to occur
chiefly in the poorer regions) falls to the owners of the production factors;
labor income is especially affected. This creates problems also for
other sectors since incomes spent on consumer goods tend to drop after a bad
crop year. For example, following a drop of about 12% in agricultural value
added in 1964, consumer spending on non-essential goods showed only small
growth in 1965. Also, sales of agricultural equipment are affected by these
fluctuations. It would be desirable to develop measures to help make pro-
duction less irregular.
1.07      Research could help to find solutions for these various problems,
particularly those involving increases in productivity. The agricultural
sector in Spain employs much more manpower than would be required with im-
proved techniques. A transfer of excess labor from low productivity agrarian
employment to more productive jobs in other sectors not only permits better
working and living conditions for those who remain on the farm but it is also
an important factor for overall economic growth. In addition to these pos-
sibilities for increasing productivity through improvement in the allocation
of resources for agriculture, substantial possibilities exist for increasing
the productivity of these resources by adapting and applying in Spain knowl-
edge already available in other countries with similar ecological conditions.
1.08      The six research centers included in the Project cover commodities
that represent about 85% of the value of Spanish agricultural production,
about 66% of Spain's agricultural imports, and about 70% of Spain's agricul-
tural exports (Table 4). Small gains in the productivity of these subsectors
would, therefore, have a major impact on Spain's agricultural output and
balance of payments.
February 8, 1971



I



ANNEX 1
Table 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHI PROJECT
Agriculture   in the Spanish Economy
Average     Average
1960 - 1961 1965 - 1966   1968
Agriculture GDP as % of total GDP                  23.4         17.8        16.2
Active population in agriculture as
% of total labor force                           41.4         32.7        31.4
Agricultural exports as % of total exports         54.5         49.0        40.0
Balance of agricultural trade (in US$ mil-
lion)      +210         -267        -164
Fixed capital formation in agriculture as
% of total capital formation                     10.3          9.8         n.a.
Incremental capital/output ratio /2 (average
1963-68)
- agricultural                                       1.7
- total economy                                      2.3
Annual growth of GDP per active person in
agriculture (1960-68), in constant prices                6.6%
Annual growth of GDP per active person,
total economy (1960-68), in constant prices             5.8%
/1   Includes forestry and fisheries.
/2   Corrected for changes in the labor force.
Source: Derived from OECD and Spanish statistics.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 2
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Yields in Selected Countries
(Ouintals per ha and kg per cow)
Wheat Average    Barley Average       Maize Average       Milk Average
1952-56  1964-66  1952-56  1964-66  1952-56  1964-66  1952-56 1964-66
Spain       9.5       10.8      11.5     14.3      19.0      23.7    1,710    2,100
Portugal    8.1        7.6       5.9       4.7      9.3      11.2       -      1,000
Greece     12.1       17.9      11.0      17.1     10.7      19.5       784    1,032
Italy      17.7       21.4      11.6     14.1      24.1      34.9    2,594    2,530
France     21.7       30.8      21.9      29.1     22.4      36.1    2,027    2,763
USA        12.5       17.6      15.2      21.3     26.5      43.7    2,586    3,767
Source:   FAO Production Yearbooks.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 3
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Producer Prices in Selected Countries
(US$ per 100 kg in 1967/68)
Spain     Portugal      Greece     France      Denmark
Wheat /1                9.5        11.3          9.3         9.3         6.8
Barley                  7.3           -          8.1         7.8        6.5
Maize                   8.2         8.5          8.5         8.2         -
Sugar Beet              1.9          -           1.5         1.5        1.3
Beef Cattle            50.6           -         47.6        61.3       35.2
Pigs                   51.5        83.4         58.6        58.4          -
Eggs                   73.7        55.6         72.0        55.4       52.3
Milk                    9.6          9.4        14.9         8.4         7.0
/1   The price of wheat imported into Europe was approximately US$7.5.
Source:   ECE/FAO (Geneva), Prices of Agricultural Products and Fertilizers
in Europe.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 4
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Gross Value of Production and Foreign Trade - 1969
(Crop year 1969/70)
____  ______-------(US$ million)--------------
Gross Value
of Production /1  Imports       EXports    Net Trade
Livestock Products             2,444           215           35         -180
Pasture and Forages              311            -            -            -
Cereals and Legumes            1,228           145           54         -91
Plant Oil /2                     208           170           75          -95
Vegetables and Fruits            948  )
(excluding citrus)                    )         30          337        +307
Citrus /3                        200  )         -
Total above              5,339            560          501          -59
Total Sector /4           6,385           962          674        -288
/1   Includes intermediate products such as feed grains, and other livestock
feed, animal labor, etc.
/2   Trade figures concern all fats and oils (including seeds).
/3   Estimate.
/4   Including forestry, excluding fisheries.
Source: La Agricultura Espanola en 1969.
Note:    US$ 1 = Pesetas 70.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production
for the Arid Zones of Snain at the
Regional Center  or Ankrpnomic Research of Extremadura Near Badajoz
TINTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain 1/ and the Bank preappraisal mission 2/
recommended that the Reglonal Cent.er for Agronomic Research of Extremadura,
"La Orden", near Badaioz, be selected as the National Research Center for
Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production in the arid zones.  Selection was
based on the general thesis that the Extremadura region was sufficiently
similar to the great part of potential pasture land of Spain awaiting ex-
ploitation to make the site emninently suitable on ecological grounds. In
addition, the proposed center lies in the heart of the arid zone of the west
and southwest where a change from the traditional pattern of land use for
olives, oaks, and wheat to one of emphasis on livestock production, based
on improved grassland and forage crops, is the national objective of Govern-
ment. A third factor was the existence of sufficient land at the center,
both dry and irrigated, to make the Project feasible. Government land in
sufficiently large blocks to permit large-scale field-type animal research
is not readily available in Spain.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Annex 1 summarizes the relative importance of the agricultural
sector to the economy and reviews its major features. The livestock sub-
sector stands out as the major contributor, accounting for 37.5% of the
total value of agricultural production. Furthermore, it is the sector with
the largest projected increase in domestic demand over the next decade.
This arises from population projections and expected income level increases
in relation to the fact that livestock products have high income elasticities.
Because of rapid increases in demand, the sector has become a major importer
in recent years in spite of a rate of production increase in the 1960's
1/   Agricultural Research and Extension Project,  Volume I, April 1970.
2/   Bank Preappraiaal Report,  August 24, 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
higher than the national average for agriculture. Pastures and forages,
along with feed grains, are not direct consumer products but are converted
to livestock products. They also show un as major elements, both in terms
of value of local production and in imports.  Thus, feed grains are the
largest single agricultural import and, combined with direct import of
livestock products, make up the bulk of the agricultural imports of the coun-
try; together, they helped pult the agricultural sector in deficit to the tune
of about US$300 million.
2.02      Meat is the most important livestock product, accounting for
over 60% of the total in volume and value. Of this about 40% is pork, 24%
poultry, 22% beef, and 11% sheep meat. Meat production has been increasing
rapidly since 1960 under the stimulus of prices in line with European Common
Market levels and improved marketing arrangements. Up to 1968, pork increased
77%, beef 45%, and lamb and mutton 10%. Poultry meat gained a spectacular
1,000%, production being organized mainly on a factory-type basis. Of the
other livestock products, dairy produce showed gains of 63% and eggs of 100%.
Only wool declined, with a 10% fall. The most significant meat import item
is beef. Total meat imported in 1968 was 121,000 tons, of which 107,000 tons
were beef. Dairy product imports were 101,000 tons.
2.03      Mluch of the increase in livestock production has had its origin
in imports of feed grains, particularly maize and soybeans, each of which
exceeded the million ton mark. Imports in 1969 totaled 30% of domestic
consumption. Some of the animal output increase has been derived from
higher production of forages, particularly oats and vetch and alfalfa,
each of which increased output about 85% over the period.  Some has come
from increased feed grain production, particularly barley and corn, which
showed increased outputs of 38% and 55%. respectively, over the 1960's. The
livestock increases have been mainly in numbers and not in per-animal effi-
ciency.
2.04      In this situation, it is reasonable that the Government's produc-
tion plans for the agricultural sector should give high priority to
increasing the output of livestock products, based, as far as is feasible,
on locally produced foodstuffs. It is equally reasonable that an organized
research effort on pasture, forage, and animal production should have the
highest priority.
B. Present Status of Pastures, Forages
and Animal Production Research in the
Arid Zones
2.05      Pasture and animal research have been relatively neglected in
Spain. Wqhat research has been done has been widely dispersed among many
centers. It still tends to be fragmentary and ad hoc in type, with its
direction determined by the whim and interest of scattered individual
workers, rather than in a purposeful or planned manner. There has been



ANNEX 2
je_ _  _
Page 3
virtually no direction of activities within the Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA) or even within Conseto Superior de
Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC).
2.06      Attention to pastures has been confined mainly to species studies
on irrigated lands at various centers. Apart from the north, which is dealt
with separately in Annex 7, practically no attention has been devoted to
native permanent pastures, their botanical character, their establishment
and maintenance, their utilization, or their productivity, under alternative
management systems. Studies of irrigated pastures have been confined
largely to alfalfa treated more as a forage crop than as a pasture for graz-
ing. Of the other important forage crops, oats and vetches are the only
combination to have received any emphasis. Within this situation, by far
the bulk of the effort has been on the plant improvement side. Useful prog-
ress has been made in the development and commercialization of high yielding
and adaptable strains of alfalfa, particularly at Aula Dei near Zaragoza.
A vetch improvement program has also resulted in commercial types more toler-
ant to cold and drought. A beginning has been made in selecting diploid or-
chard grass for dry land conditions, and limited selection work has been done
with tall oat grass and birdsfood trefoil. Similar studies with ecotypes of
subterranean clover have begun at La Orden. The species range studied has
been very limited thus far.
2.07      Work on animal production in INIA is both scanty and of a particu-
larly low standard. This is partly a reflection of the monopolistic attitude
of the veterinary profession to animal studies, the lack of training of In-
genieros Agronomos in animal science, and the virtual absence of veterinary
scientists in the INIA organization. In addition, veterinary groups confine
their attention to animal health angles, being neither trained nor geared
.or production studies. A limited amount of sound research is being conducted
within the CSIC. A small animal nutrition institute in Mladrid is concentrat-
ing upon the nutritive characters and use of alfalfa in production of poultry
and pigs, mainly on a laboratory basis; a similar unit at Murcia is involved
in feeding experiments with different classes of stock; a sheep nutrition
unit at Zaragoza is mapping the nutritive characteristics of local feedstuffs.
Elsewhere, scattered units for studies of milk production, pig production, and
sheep production exist. Scope, number of animals, objectives, experimental
design, and quality of management are woefully inadequate in all cases. Some
units are badly located as, for example, at Cordoba where a new milk process-
ing research plant is unused because of lack of milk.
2.08      Present researchi groups working in the field are dispersed among
the various stations, mainly at El Encin, Cordoba, Zaragoza, and La Orden.
Of special interest to the present Project is the group at La Orden, the site
proposed for more concentrated work. Currently, this group comprises seven
Ingenieros Agronomos (two with doctorates) and eight technicians, with 10
laboratory and field assistants. It is proposed to supplement these with
four Ingenieros Agronomos to be transferred from Cordoba. A UNDP project for
pasture and animal development has also commenced operations in the center.
Its staff will include a foreign project manager, along with expatriate spe-
cialists, for a total service period of 28 man-years. The research program



ANNEX 2
Page 4
for the proposed National Research Center would be closely linked to this
group.
2.09      Land and laboratory facilities are reasonably good.  The main
station, La Orden, has 200 ha, 140 ha of which are irrigated. A second
unit, El Gaitan, comprising 800 ha of dry land, is available for research
purposes for 15 years. The center currently operates a further 100 ha of
irrigated land, El Prado, loaned by the Colonization Department of the Min-
istry of Agriculture, the use of which can be retained indefinitely. All
three farms are handy to the city of Badajoz and in reasonably close proxim-
ity to each other. The station also has INIA's most recently constructed
laboratory and office block, consisting of 3,000 m2. This unit is ready for
lurnishing and equipping for research purposes. Older units in good order
are also available, in terms of both office and laboratory space. Sufficient
field buildings for livestock, storage, and field work exist at La Orden
to permit large-scale work to commence with a minimum of delay. Livestock
buildings would be required at El Gaitan. The El Prado facilities also
need supplementation. Although basic facilities thus exist, ancillary
requirements for first class pasture and animal work are virtually absent.
Laboratory equipment, stock handling facilities, weighing equipment,
fencing, silos, hay barns, storage facilities, and suitable livestock in
numbers for experimentation would be provided.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      A National Research Center for Pasture, Forage, and Animal Produc-
tion would be established as one of the chain of six such commodity-oriented
specialized National Research Centers under the Project. It would be located
at the INIA Regional Center for Agronomic Research of Extremadura near
Badajoz. Its operations in beef cattle, dairy cattle and sheep production,
in relation to the utilization of pastures and forage crops, would be the
major interest of the Regional Center. It would be regarded as the key cen-
ter of INIA for this type of research.
B. Research Program
3.02      The research program would give the highest priority to the
study of ways and means of increasing output of animal products, based on
pastures and forages under both dry land and irrigated conditions. Since
high outputs per unit area depend far more on the number of animals carried
than on the yield per animal, the emphasis would be on stocking rates rather
than on high individual animal performance. Work would fall into three major
categories: (a) Pasture production studies: Studies would concern estab-
lishment and maintenance of high production improved cultivated pastures; im-
provement of native swards by introduction of clovers and grasses; testing of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
improved varieties of imported grasses and clovers; isolation and testing of
ecotypes of more productive native species of pasture plants, especially sub-
terranean clover; fertilizer requirements and economic responses to different
levels and types of fertilizer for high production; pasture seed production.
(b) Forage crop studies: Studies would concern cultural practices to obtain
maximum yields of key crops; fitting of forage crop production and practices
into different farming systems; introduction and testing of improved vari-
eties of forages, especially oats and vetches; conservation methods to maxi-
mize quality and yields and to fit alternative utilization systems; and seed
production. (c) Animal production studies: Studies would concern animal
outputs under alternative grazing management systems, with special emphasis
on stocking rates; relationship to per-ha and per-animal yields of methods
of utilizing conserved feeds under alternative management systems; relation
of level of intake to output per ha and per animal, with special reference to
reproductive efficiency; nutritional characteristics and feeding systems of
pastures and forages in relation to metabolic disorders in livestock; nutri-
tive value of pastures and forages in vitro, in vivo, and in feeding trials
as affected by agronomic characterictics and utilization methods; performance
testing of key breeds and crosses of livestock, using the survey approach
among farmers' flocks and herds; animal management to increase efficiency
through better handling of livestock relative to age, size, and reproductive
state; field control and endo- and exo-parasites and other key diseases of
stock.
3.03      From these guidelines, the Center Director, aided by his senior
staff, would draw up proposals for research projects annually for approval
by INIA Headquarters.
C. Staffing
3.04      Staffing requirements for the center would be as follows:
Clerical/
Category and Grouping                       Professional  Technical    Field
Administration /1
Director                                     1            1           -
Associate Director                           1            1           -
Research Coordinator                         1            1           -
Secretary General                            1            1           -
Farm Superintendent                          1            1           30
Accountant                                   1            1           -
Clerical                                                  8            9
Photography                                  1            1           -
Library, Publications & Printing             -1           4            1
Extension Specialist                         3            -           -
Cafeteria                                    -            2            5
Subtotals                         11          21           45



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Clerical/
Category and Grouping                        Professional  Technical    Field
Animal Production
Animal Husbandry (Cattle-Beef)               3            6            6
(Cattle-Dairy)            2            4           10
(Sheep)                   1            2            4
Animal Breeding  (Cattle-Beef)               2            4            4
(Cattle-Dairy)            2            4            4
(Sheep)                   2            4            4
Animal Nutrition (Fertility-
Reproduction)             2           3            4
(Metabolic Dis-
orders)                   1           2            2
"  "    (Parasitologist)        1            2            2
Subtotals                        16           31           40
Pastures and Forages
Dry Land        - Agrostologists             2            4            4
Fertility                 1            2            -
- Forage Conservation        1            2           -
Irrigated       - Agrostologists             2            4            4
- Fertility                  1            2           -
- Forage Conservation        1            2
Seed Production                              1            2            -
Subtotals                         9           18            8
Professional Support - Servicing
Chemical Services
- Biochemists                1            2
- Analysts                   4            8
Soil and Water Services
- Soil Scientists            1            2           1
- Water Scientists           1            2            2
- Irrigation (Drain-
age) Engineers             1           2            2
Plant Improvement
- Pastures                   2            4           -
- Forage Crops               2           4
Economics and Statistics
- Farm Management            2            2
- Statisticians              1            2
Agricultural Engineering
- Farm Machinery             1            2           -
Subtotals                        16           30            5
Total                            52          100           98
/1   This administrative group would be standard for all centers.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
3.05      These estimates of staff requirements to provide a well balanced
team would be reduced over the early years by the number and type provided
by the UNDP project.  These could total nine professional specialists.  They
would also be reduced by the number of specialist officers appointed under
the Project to assist in getting it off the ground. In accordance with the
overall proposals for staffing of the Project, this center would receive
the assistance, over a three- to five-year period, of two to four foreign re-
search specialists. These, in number and specialty, would be related to the
extent to which the UNDP project becomes effective.
D. Fellowships
3.06      The Project would provide for 15 fellowships under the scheme des-
cribed in paragraph 3.06 of the main report and in Annex 8. The majority
would be graduate level and would be awarded in fields of training recommended
by the senior research staff, including the UNDP specialist personnel and the
foreign research specialists. Special provision would be made for the Center
Director to visit approved animal production research institutes abroad prior
to the implementation of major changes at La Orden under the Project.
E. Buildings and Equipment
3.07      The new laboratory block would be completed in accordance with the
office and laboratory needs of the specialist staff groupings outlined in
paragraph 3.04 above. On the assumption that the existing farm buildings
of La Orden, presently controlled by the Colonization Department, are made
available to the new center, and the other major buildings at the center
are similarly made available, the building program would be reduced. Cal-
culations are accordingly based on a staff of 41. Stock buildings at El
Gaitan would be erected to provide for beef cattle rearing and fattening;
sheep husbandry; and hay and silage storage.
F. Cost Estimates
3.08      The total cost of the National Research Center for Pastures, Forages,
and Animal Production at Badajoz, is estimated at US$4,620,000.  The foreign
exchange component is approximately US$2,138,000. These estimates do not
cover additional operating expenses of Government.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Cost Estimates
(US$ '000)
Category                               Local         Foreign       Total
Capital Inputs
Buildings                               984            246          1,230
Furnishings                             461            154            615
Farm Development                         90             23            113
Research Equipment                      154            461            615
Farm Equipment                           41             41             82
Automobiles and Trucks                   61             62            123
Services and Utilities                  148            149            29?
Subtotal                  1,939           1,136         3,075
Technical Services
Research Specialists (2)                123            247            370
Consultants (5)                          20             40             60
Training Fellowships (15)                -             315            315
Subtotal                    143             602            745
Contingencies                           400            400            800
Total                     2,482           2,138         4,620
G. Organization and Management
3.09       The Director of the Regional Center for Agronomic Research of Ex-
tremadura would be the Director of the National Research Center of the Proj-
ect.  His appointment would be subject to Bank approval.  He would be assisted
by a Research Coordinator selected with Bank approval from the cadre of re-
search specialists specially recruited for service at the center as per para-
graph 3.07 of the main report. The respective duties and responsibilities
of each would be as laid down in Annex 9 and agreed to during negotiations.
3.10      The organizational chart attached applies not only to this center
but also to the other five centers, insofar as relationship to INIA and the
associated Regional Centers is concerned.
February 8, 1971



ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE FOR NATIONAL CENTERS
AND REGIONAL CENTERS
(EXAMPLE- 6ADA JOZ)
NATIONAL CENTER FOR PASTURES, FORAGES, AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION
AND
REGIONAL CENTER OF AGRONOMIC RESEARCH FOR EXTREMADURA
DIRECTOR
NATIONAL PROGRAM
RESEARCH COORDINATOR
l                     I
AT CENTER         OTHER LOCATIONS
SECRETARY GENERAL                               ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
LIBRARY                           TRAINING
RELATION WITH AGRICULTURAL
TRANSPORT                           EXTENSION
PURCHASE                           ADMINISTRATION - OTHER STATIC mS
IN REGION
SUPPLY                        - REGIONAL PROGRAM
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES                          OTHER NATIONAL PROGRAMS
FARM AND GROUNDS OPERATIONS
BUILDINGS AND MECHANICAL J
MAINTENANCE
IBRD - 5539






ANNEX 3
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables at the
Research and Agrarian Development Center of the Ebro Near Zaragoza
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain 1/ and the previous Bank mission to
Spain 2/ recommended that Zaragoza be selected as the National Center for
fruit research. In addition, the Bank mission selected Zaragoza as the
National Research Center for vegetable research. Its selection was based on
its location in the Ebro Valley, which is a major center for deciduous fruits
such as pears, peaches, anples, strawberries, and plums, as well as for hazel
nuts and almonds. It is also a significant production center for vegetables
such as asparagus, peppers, escarole, artichokes, cauliflower, peas, lettuce,
and beans.
1.02      Zaragoza has an active agricultural research station that is joint-
ly operated by the Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA)
and the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC). This station
has recently been designated the Agrarian Development Center of the Ebro,
thus paving the way for incorporating a National Research Center for Fruits
and Vegetables.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Fruits and Vegetables in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Of the tree crops (except citrus and olives), fruits and nuts ac-
count for over 12% of the value of agricultural products in Spain. The major
tree crop is the almond.  Total acreage devoted to almond production is more
than five times as great as that used for the next most important tree crop,
the apple. Peaches and pears rank next. Almond production is concentrated
in the Cataluna and Levante regions. Apple production is also concentrated
there and in the Ebro region.
1/   Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Volume I, April 1970.
2/   Bank Preappraisal Report, August 24, 1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
2.02      With the exception of almonds, all important tree crops have ex-
perienced increases in production. The indexes of production for 1969
(1951-60 = 100) were:  almonds, 81; apples, 162; peaches, 146, pears, 140;
apricots, 170; and cherries, 110. These increases liave been due to expanded
acreage and larger numbers of trees.
2.03      Exports, which represent 9%O of the value of the production of
tree fruits, are chiefly composed of almonds, iincluding bananas from the
Canary Islands. Prospects for expanding markets are generally quite good.
Local consumption of fruits and nuts is expected to increase at a pace
somewhat above average for agricultural products.
2.04      In respect to vegetable production (including potatoes), the
value of production in 1969 was about 13% of the value of all agricultural
products, and the combined fruit, nut, and vegetable production was over 25,
of all agricultural production.
2.05      The leading vegetable in terms of tonnage produced is the potato.
Tomatoes, onions, and cabbage rank next. Changes in recent years have fol-
lowed a pattern reflecting increased demands. Most rapid changes have oc-
curred in artichokes, asparagus, green beans, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower,
and melons. Much of the increase has come from increased yield per acre.
Growing tourism has been a significant factor here.
2.06      Export demand figures importantly in the market for tomatoes,
onions, and melons. Tomatoes, in particular, are large export earners.
Potatoes have some export earnings, but future prospects are not bright
because of the low income elasticity of demand. In general, Spain should
be able to compete quite effectively for a growing export market in Europe
for fruits and vegetables as performance in this sector has been one of the
brightest spots in the economy.
B. Present Status of Fruit and Vegetable Research
2.07      Little research existed in Spain on deciduous fruits prior to
1950. About then, a department for fruit research was initiated near Zaragoza
at the CSIC station known as Aula Dei. It has been devoted to the identifi-
cation and classification of the many different varieties of deciduous fruits
and almonds in Spain. The first studies were to determine and make selection
of the existing rootstocks of apricots, cherries, plums, peaches, pears, and
apples in Spain. This work took about 10 years, during which 2,000 varieties
of fruits were planted near Zaragoza and properly identified. The compilation
of this information, including evidence that as many as 12 different names
referred to the same variety, led to its publication and the Francisco Franco
Award in 1964 for technical work. Subsequently, work was initiated on the
adaptation of fruit varieties to different climatic and irrigated conditions.
Such factors as chilling, heat requirement, and dormancy were studied.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
2.08      A Soils Department at Zaragoza, also in operation for about 20
years, has been devoted to soil and foliar analyses of fruit orchards as
well as other crops. The main emphasis is fertilization studies and the
control of leaf chlorosis induced by alkaline soils resulting primarily in
iron deficiency. Foliar spray and injection techniques to overcome chlorosis
is being studied, as is selection of varieties and soil conditions designed
to minimize these conditions. This is particularly important for peaches,
which are highly sensitive to iron chlorosis.
2.09      Various fungal, bacterial, and entomological problems of fruits
are studied in the Plant Protection Department. There is also an Economics
Department studying the structure of various indices for analyzing fruit
production. An evaluation of the fruit and vegetable packaging methods,
with a view to adaptation to international norms, is underway.
2.10      Fruit research is also being carried out elsewhere in Spain.
This includes research at Badajoz, Cordoba, Sevilla, Murcia, La
Coruna, Victoria, and Valencia. However, its extent and importance is less
when compared to the research near Zaragoza. Research on tropical and sub-
tropical fruits is conducted in the Canary Islands and Malaga, and on citrus
at Valencia and Murcia.
2.11      There is essentially no research being done by INIA at Zaragoza on
the mechanization of fruit harvesting, processing, packaging, storage, trans-
port, or marketing of fruit and its byproducts.  Effective research in some
of these areas is being done by the CSIC research stations at Valencia and
Murcia. Both of these stations are well staffed and have fine labora-
tories and pilot plant equipment. This is particularly evident at the
Valencia station, which is in the Juan de Cierva Patronato of the CSIC
and known as Instituto de Agroquimica y Tecnologia de Alimentos. This
institute was founded in 1950 and now is housed in a modern five-story
building with a staff of 190 of which 62 have doctorates. It has an
annual budget of about Pesetas 32 to 35 million, half of which comes from
contracts with fruit, canning, and pesticide industries. Its modern proces-
sing equipment is sufficient to study most evaluations for industrial purposes.
This includes canning, new machinery, bottling, dehydration, freeze drying,
preservation, residue, and contamination studies. It is also conducting
economic surveys of marketing potential, both local and export, of various
fruits and vegetables.
2.12      At present, fruit research at Zaragoza is devoted to apricots,
almonds, cherries, plums, apples, peaches, and pears. Some research in
strawberries is underway at Lorona, 150 km west of Zaragoza, but none on
hazel nuts, although these two crops constitute 25% and 78%, respectively, of
Spain's production in the Ebro Valley.
2.13      Some research on vegetables has been carried out in many regions
of Spain where specific crops are of regional significance. Hlost of the
studies are on varietal and fertilization trials. One small, unimpressive
station at Valencia, Estacion de Horticultura (INIA), is on 7.5 hla of



ANNEX 3
Page 4
land in the city. It has few facilities, a small staff, and little contact
with farmers or extension. The present director is a potato breeder. Studies
are on onions, tomatoes, peanuts, melons, beans, and artichokes. The four
professionals are more involved in teaching than in research.
2.14      Small research investigations are going on at many branch
stations, with efforts fragmented between the various institutes of INIA,
CSIC, and ministerial provincial units. At Zaragoza, no research on vege-
tables was inititated until 1967. One Ingeniero Agronomo was hired to
work on varietal trials of tomatoes, peppers, artichokes, and asparagus.
No research has been done on cauliflower, peas, onions, lettuce, lima beans,
or escarole although they constitute from 12% to 25% of Spain's production
in the Ebro Valley. Vegetable research ceased in 1970 with the loss of the
researcher to industry.
2.15      Far more significant vegetable research is being carried out by
the CSIC at Murcia and Valencia where work is primarily oriented to the cultiva-
tion of vegetables for processing. At Valencia, the institute has carried
out research on varieties of various vegetables suitable for processing
and has published bulletins, complete with information for farmers on recom-
mended cultivation practices.
2.16      The institute at Murcia is known as Centro de Edafologia y
Biologia Aplicada del Segura of the Patronato Alonso de Herrera. It is
located in a modern four-story building and has fine equipment and laborator-
ies. Out of its staff of 145, 61 are senior professionals. An
effective soils analysis group has been operating for many years, offering
services to farmers prior to the development of an extension service 10 years
ago. The institute has close relationships with industry and farmers,
with major research in all phases of citrus research from soil fertility,
diseases and cultivation practices to processing and by-product utilization.
The next World Congress on Citrus will be held at this institute.
2.17      Quality control studies are underway at Murcia on tomatoes and
other vegetables, as well as evaluation of juices and concentrates of
beans, peppers, and artichokes. Of particular interest is the utilization
of the byproducts of the fruit and vegetable canning industry as
stock feed.
2.18      The staff at Zaragoza is divided administratively and by operat-
ing budgets between the Ministries of Agriculture and Education. In 1944,
the CSIC of the Mlinistry of Education set up an experiment station near
Zaragoza called Estacion Experimental de Aula Dei. Not until 1963, however,
did the Ministry of Agriculture, through support from the OECD, become
associated with Aula Dei in giving courses in fruits and vegetables. Subse-
quentlv, the Director General of Agriculture formed Departments of Horticulture,
Economics, and Plant Pathology to complement the CSIC staffs of Pomology,
Plant Imporvement, and Soils. It is known as Centro de Desarrollo Agrario
del Ebro. JMore recently, a Department of Animal Production on the agricultural
side has been formed. INIA now controls the Ebro organization.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
2.19      The total professional staff is presently 71, 52 of whom have
degrees from agriculture schools or University of London at East Mall-
ing. The staff is approximately 53% financed and paid directly by CSIC and
about 47% by INIA, with three receiving their salaries from the Ministry of
Finance, since they are funcionarios. 1/ One of these is the Acting Director of
the Agricultural Group. Research categories of staff in the departments
are as follows:
Department                         Number of Professionals
Plant Improvement (mainly CSIC)              12
Horticulture (mainly CSIC)                     7
Soils (mainly INIA)                           8
Economics (mainly INIA)                       8
Plant Pathology (mainly INJIA)                 5
Animal Production (mainly INIA)                7
Teaching (mainly INIA)                         5
52
2.20      Of these, 15 hold doctorate degrees.  In addition, there are 18
Peritos Agricolas 2/. Two of the Peritos are in extension, and work directly
in the Departments of Horticulture and Animal Production. They are a link
between research, the extension agencies, and the farmers. Two members of the
Economics Department are from Penn State University on contract for two years
and financed through OECD. They are working on animal production and
marketing. The training program at Zaragoza is primarily a post-graduate
course for Ingenieros Agronomos. Courses are given in fruit and vegetable
production, animal production, and farm management. The courses last seven
months from late October until the end of May. Approximately 30 to 40
visiting professors from all over Europe present courses of a week or so and
are financed through OECD. There are approximately 20 students per course.
OECD has this year designated Zaragoza as the third International Mediterranean
Center for Advanced Studies, with Bari, Italy, and Montpelier, France. Very
few of the students come from INIA. Courses may be taught in French, English,
or German, with translators present.
2.21      As at all CSIC stations, the permanent CSIC staff at Zaragoza
must hold doctorates. All permanent staff must also have foreign country
experience, and approximately five to six per year visit foreign institutions,
primarily through OECD financing.
2.22      The total annual budget of the combined Zaragoza stations is
about Pesetas 53 million. Of this amount, Pesetas 5 million comes from
royalties received from the production of new varieties of wheat, barley, oats,
1/   Permanent Government Servants.
2/   Qualified Technicians.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
rye, corn, and sugar beets developed at the station. It should be noted that
the first research on hybrid corn and other small grains in Spain was initiated
at the Aula Dei station. There is also some important alfalfa improvement
being done. Additionally, there is included in the CSIC budget a Pesetas nine
million contract with the sugar beet growers for improvement studies, so that
the actual amount paid by CSIC directly is about Pesetas 14 million. All
CSIC and INIA funds are administered by a General Secretary at the Station.
2.23      The facilities at Zaragoza are reasonable.  The main building
was constructed in 1955 and houses the main laboratory facilities. There
are approximately 5,000 m2 of working space, of which 3,000 m2 are for
general services, library, and conference rooms. The laboratories of
the Department of Plant Improvement, Horticulture, Plant Pathology, Soils,
and Economics have about 325 m2 of working space each. The building has
two main floors and some basement facilities. The library is good, with
about 1,000 journals being currently received. In addition, there is a rel-
atively new building constructed to house the students coming for the seven-
month courses and a dining and conference room. A small building that
was the original building of the Aula Dei station is now used to house
visiting professors. Two new buildings are being constructed, one to house
classrooms, auditorium, and more dormitories for students attending the train-
ing courses, and the other to house a servicing laboratory for the routine
soil and plant analyses of samples from farmers in the Ebro Valley region.
There are also barns, sheds and greenhouse facilities, as well as good farm
equipment and machinery for handling all farm operations. The station is
operated between 8:00 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
2.24      The station is located on 69 ha of land.  A major propor-
tion is devoted to fruit trees, while the rest is used for growing various
grain crops, sugar beets, and vegetables. There are probably less than 40 ha
that can actually be used for plantings.
2.25      All of the land is owned by the Ministry of Education except
for the two small portions transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture to
permit the construction of the new training facilities and the Plant Soil
Analysis Service Laboratory.  The station proposes to purchase two adjacent
land areas of 75 ha and 18 ha, respectively. Some difficulty in acquiring
these may be experienced since they are owned by 60 and five farmers, res-
pectively. An estimated Pesetas 50 million would be required for purchase.
Assurances of purchase or lease were obtained during negotiations and would
be a condition of effectiveness.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project would establish a National Research Center for
Fr its and Vegetables at the nresent Regional Center of Ebro near Zaragoza.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Fruits and vegetables are considered of liiglh priority to the agricultural
economy of Spain. The selection of Zaragoza as the site for such a center
was agreed to by the Ministry of Agriculture with assistance of the Agriculture
Projects Department of the Bank.
3.02      The Project encompasses an increase in professional and technical
personnel, advanced degree training, facilities, and land to strengthen and
upgrade the Zaragoza station as a National Center for fruit and vegetable
production research up to and including harvesting. All post-harvest re-
search, processing, and marketing would be contracted to other CSIC stations
as part of the Project (para 3.08).
B. Research Program
3.03      Research on fruits and vegetables would be increased to cover
all phases of cultivation up to and including harvest of all tree fruits,
nuts, and vegetables of importance to the Spanish economy. This would re-
quire studies on improved varieties, particularly those adapted for
processing and for export. It would also require studies on fertilizers
and soil fertility, insects, plant disease, weed control, plant cul-
tivation, and improved mechanized harvesting techniques. It would include
post-harvest research on all aspects of fruit and vegetable processing
and marketing (para 3.02).
3.04      Research priorities in fruits and vegetables would consider those
factors that are designed to reduce production costs through improved
economic cultivation practices as well as to improve quality for increased
..arketability.  Cooperative mechanization schemes designed to improve the
profitability of planting, spraying, and harvesting would be considered,
particularly in regions of very small land holdings.
3.05      Research on processing of fruits and vegetables would have the
prime objective of increasing Spain's share of the world markets. In
particular, research on frozen fruits, vegetables and juices would be ex-
panded to provide high quality products, both for local consumption and
export. More research would also be done in handling highly perishable
fruits and vegetables so as to assure products of high quality that would
command better prices in world markets. Research on packaging materials,
refrigerated containers, systems of evaluating and reducing bruising of
fruits and vegetables, prevention of rapid oxidation, and increasing shelf
life would be studied.
3.06      Market research would also be conducted to locate and retain
local and world markets, especially as quality and annual production of
fruits and vegetables increase. "Brand naming" of certain high quality
produce would be evaluated in an attempt to compete with fruits and
vegetables of other countries.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
3.07      All Pre-harvest research up to and including mechanization of
fruit and vegetable cultivation practices through harvest would be car-
ried out at the Zaragoza station. The shortage of highly qualified tech-
nical personnel in Spain necessitates concentrating the major effort on
deciduous fruits and vegetables at one National Research Center, although it
is recognized that some work must continue elsewhere because of ecological
differences. However, regional extensions would proceed under the super-
vision of the research staff at the National Research Center, who would
have a high degree of mobility in visiting other regions in Spain.
3.08      All research to be conducted on post-harvest processing, packing,
canning, storage, transport and marketing of fruits and vegetables and
their by-products would be contracted by the National Research Center
through INIA to the CSIC Processing Institutes at Valencia and Murcia.
This is designed to take full advantage of the quality staff at these
institutes and to avoid unnecessary duplication of research effort.
3.09      A similar contractual arrangement would be made between the
Ministries of Agriculture and Education to maintain the close liaison cur-
rently existing and to channel loan funds where most needed.
C. Staffing
3.10      Staffing requirements for the center would be as follows:
Category and Grouping               Professional    Technical    Clerical/Field
Administration - Standard (Annex 2)
Subtotal                       11             21              45
Horticulture and Plant Protection
Pomologists                              6             12             12
Vegetable Specialists                    4              8              8
Entomologists and Nematologists          2              4              6
Plant Pathologists                       4              8              8
Weed Control Specialists                 2              4              8
Subtotal                       18             36              42
Soil, Water and Engineering
Soil Scientists - Soil Fertility         2              4              6
Soil Chemists - Analyses                 2             4
Soil '>anagement                         1              2              2
Irrigation Scientists - Irrigation
Requirements and Ilanagement           2             4               8
Irrigation and Drainage Engineers        1              2              3
Agricultural Engineers - Cultivation
and Harvesting Techniques              2             4               6
Subtotal                       10             20              25
Economics and Statistics
Economists - Production                  2              4              -
Economists - Marketing                   1              2              -
Statisticians - Statistics               1             2               -
Subtotal                        4              8               -
Total                          43             85             11i
=_             85=_



ANNEX 3
Page 9
3.11      One additional extensionist would also be located at the station
to maintain contact with the extension services in the field of vegetables
to provide information and advice to visitors to the center and set up field
days.
3.12      The center would have one Director in charge of all research
activities. He would preferably have some administrative experience and
sufficient prestige to gain the confidence and close coordination of his
staff on the fruit and vegetable problems to be studied.
3.13      The staff would also have the following foreign researchers,
selected for specialized qualifications: fruit, vegetable, marketing,
water, and soil.
D. Fellowships
3.14      An estimated 15 fellowships would be awarded for advanced degree
training for this center. The fields covered would include fruits and
vegetables, soils and water, plant breeding, entomology, plant pathology,
production and marketing economics, weed control, and agricultural engineer-
ing. In addition, five fellowships would be awarded to personnel of the CSIC
stations at Valencia and Murcia for advanced degree training in food technology
of fruits and vegetables and marketing. Fellowship organization would follow
the pattern laid down in Annex 8.
E. Buildings and Equipment
3.15      To supplement existing buildings, offices and laboratories for an
additional 20 professional personnel in horticulture, soils, and crop
protection would be constructed under the Project.
F. Cost Estimates
3.16      Total cost for the National Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables
at Zaragoza is estimated at US$2,930,000. The foreign exchange component
is approximately US$1,529,000 (52%). Estimates do not include the additional
contribution by Government of approximately 93 hectares of irrigated land
purchased at an estimated cost of US$700,000. They also do not include
the increase in the operating budget of the center, including professional
salaries, nor the cost of CSIC contracts. Details of capital costs are as
follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Category                                     Local    Foreign    Total
Capital Inputs
Buildings                                               480        120        600
Furnishings                                             225         75        300
Farm Development                                         44         11         55
Research Equipment                                       75        225        300
Farm Equipment                                           20         20         40
Automobiles and Trucks                                   30         30         60
Services and Utilities                                   72         73        145
Subtotal                                            946         554      1,500
Technical Services
Research Specialists (3)                                185        370        555
Training Fellowships (15)                                -         315        315
Consultants (5)                                          20         40         60
Subtotal                                            205        725         930
Contingencies                                             250        250        500
Total                                              1,401      1,529     2,930
3.17      Buildings and equipment would cost approximately US$1,500,000.  The
costs for research specialists, consultants, and training fellowships account
for approximately 32% of the total Project cost. They are based on four
specialists and 15 training fellowships.
C. Organization and T-lanagement
3.18      The Director of the Regional Agrarian Research Center of El Ebro
would also be the Director of the National Research Center for Fruits and
Vegetables. His appointment would be subject to Bank approval. He would be
assisted by a Research Coordinator selected with Bank approval from the cadre
of research specialists, recruited for service at the center as per paragraph
3.07 of the main report. The respective duties and responsibilities of each
would be as laid down in Annex 9 and agreed to during negotiations. The
ceuiter would be under the administrative control of INIA.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Research Center for Plant Oils at the Regional Center
for Agronomic Research of Andalucia at Cordoba
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain 1/ and the previous Bank mission to
Spain 2/ recommended that Cordoba be selected as the National Center for
Plant Oils Agricultural Research. Its selection was based on its location
near major centers of olive, sunflower, soybean, rape, and safflower produc-
tion. Furthermore, Cordoba has an Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Agronomicas (INIA) agricultural research station that Government plans to
develop into one of its Regional Agricultural Research Centers (Andalucia)
and could thereby incorporate a National Research Center for Plant Oils.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Plant Oils in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Spain and Italy are the world's two leading producers of olive
oil by a considerable margin. In 1955-59, Spain produced an average of
336,000 tons, compared to Italy's 285,000 tons. In the 1964-68 period,
Italy increased production to 420,000 tons to move ahead of Spain's
350,000 tons.
2.02      In 1968, Spain exported 43,000 tons of olive oil (5% of the
value of total agricultural exports). In 1969, 72,000 tons were exported.
In spite of this production, Spain was a net importer of plant oils and
oilseeds. The country imported 10,000 tons of soybean oil in 1969, but
exported almost 50,000 tons that same year. This is due to the importation
of 1,030,000 tons of soybeans, which were crushed in Spain, the meal
being used for livestock feed (along with 70,000 tons of imported soybean
meal), and much of the oil being exported. Additional imports of other
edible seed oils (largely groundnut) were roughly 10,000 tons.
1/ Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Volume I, April 1970.
2/   Bank Preappraisal Mission Report, August 24, 1970.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.03      This situation indicates that in the plant oils and oilseeds
area, the potential for gains from research must come, in large part, from
the introduction of relatively new oilseed crops to Spain.
2.04      Already, sunflower production has been increasing sharply
(150,000 ha in 1969, compared with 18,000 ha three years ago). Safflower
production, on the other hand, declined by 72% in 1969 because of disease
problems. Soybean production began with 300 ha in 1969; some 6,000 ha
were planted to rape seed in the same year. Cotton is basically a fiber
crop but a substantial amount of oil (70,000 tons) is produced from this
plant.
2.05      From 1955-57 to 1962-64, olive oil production from irrigated land
(about 6% of area, 10% of production) increased by 24%, even though acreage
decreased by 7%. Yields increased by 55%. The yield increase for dry land
production was 38%. This reflects an increase in fertilizer use and an
improvement in cultivation methods and insect control. Greater increases
are feasible from these methods and from the use of improved plant material.
2.06      Plant oils trade data are somewhat complicated by the concurrent
imports of soybeans and soybean oil and the export of soybean oil. This
is a phenomenon of recent origin. Olive oil exports have been increasing
over the years from a value of US$21 million in 1955-59 to US$58 million in
1960-64. Prospects for further increases look favorable.
2.07      Demand projections for Spanish plant oils were made by a
World Bank mission in 1966. These were updated in the research submission
of Government. An increase in domestic consumption of olive oil from
its present level of 257,000 tons to 357,000 tons by 1980 is anticipated.
Exports are expected to increase from 43,000 to 80,000 tons. For oilbearing
seeds, domestic consumption is projected to increase from 208,000 to 270,000
tons and imports to be reduced from 160,000 to 20,000 tons (excluding soy-
beans).
2.08      These. projections are based on an income elasticity of demand
of 0.30 for both olive oil and other oils. That is, a 10% increase in
per capita income will result in a 3% increase in per capita oils consump-
tion, which appears low, especially for oilseeds. Since oilseeds
yield both meal and oil, the income elasticity of demand for livestock
products (around 0.9) should be used for the meal portion of the demand
for oilseeds. The appropriate adjustment would raise the projected
domestic consumption of oilseeds by 35,000 to 40,000 tons.
2.09      Another factor is price relative to costs.  Olive oil prices
received by producers in 1968 were Pesetas 3,528 per 100 kg.  This was 65%
higher than the price in 1959. The index of prices paid by farmers for
inputs rose by 30% during that period. In contrast, Italian prices for
olive oil have risen by less than 10%, while the index of prices paid by
farmers rose by 35% in the same period. This suggests that Spain has



ANNEX 4
Page 3
experienced a loss of comparative advantage in olive production, a situ-
ation posing problems in trade forecasts.
B. Present Status of Plant Oils Research
2.10      At present, very little research is underway on oilseeds at
Cordoba although some, primarily on different varieties and fertilizer
use, has been carried out in the past on soybean, sunflower, rape, and saf-
flower. A little has also been conducted elsewhere, and the National
Institute for Selected Seeds Production of the Ministry of Agriculture has
evaluated some introduced oilseeds, including Russian varieties of sunflower.
2.11      Soybean and safflower production has decreased in the Andalucian
region due to insect and plant diseases, especially Fusarium wilt of saf-
flower. Nevertheless, no research has been undertaken to study methods
of pest control or breeding for resistant varieties. Of the 51 projects
underway or planned for 1971 at Cordoba or Jaen, only one (2% of total)
involves oilseeds research.   It is to be on fertilizer tests with sunflower
on irrigated land. A branch station at Rinconada (near Carmona) will make
a similar study under dry land farming conditions where it is planned, also,
to compare two varieties of soybean.
2.12      Research on olives has been more extensive.  The olive research
station at Jaen - a branch of the INIA center at Cordoba - has been in-
volved in various oil extraction and cultivation studies. Of particular
significance has been the research carried out by the Institute of Edible
Fats and Oils at Sevilla, which is under Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Cientificas (CSIC). This institute has a staff of 40 professional research-
ers, a total staff of 100, and an annual budget of Pesetas 30 million.
Involved exclusively in research on the processing of plant oils, primarily
olive oil and table olives, it has fine laboratories, equipment, and ex-
perimental mill and pilot plant operations, 10 km from Sevilla. The institute
concerns itself with analytical, microbiological, industrial, and quality
evaluation of processed oils and table olives. It has a good library and a good
international reputation and has been operating since 1947.
2.13      Recently, the UNDP has negotiated with the Government to establish
a Mediterranean Center for Olive Research, Training and Extension at the
INIA center at Cordoba. Research will involve mechanical harvesting of
olives, rejuvenation of old olive trees 50 to 100 years old, and establish-
ment of a bank of cultivars of high yield and disease resistance. The re-
search program has been delayed awaiting arrival of equipment and a green-
house from Genoa. Training is a major phase of this project and there are
presently 30 professionals from 20 countries receiving instructions in
olive technology for a period of six months. As a part of this olive
program, the station at Cordoba and Jaen has underway or planned 20 re-
search projects involving cropping, cultivation, spacing, pest control and



ANNEX 4
Page 4
oil extraction. The agreement between UNDP and the Government was expected
to be signed in January 1971.
2.14      There are presently 20 professionals on the staff at Cordoba.
Of these, seven are Doctores Ingenieros Agronomos, including one with a Ph.D
in Soils from the University of California and one with a Ph.D in Plant
Breeding from the University of Halle, Germany (1934). The rest are Ingenieros
Agronomos. Eight of the 20 are paid by contract and eight are paid by the
Ministry of Finance and are permanent government servants. Four are paid
directly by the Directorate General of Agriculture.
2.15      Eleven of the staff teach for eight months of the year at the
Agricultural School, which is adjacent to the Cordoba Station. Between
three to six hours of teaching per week is involved, plus approximately
three hours preparation for each instruction hour. Classes are held
between 4:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. with laboratory work in the morning. The
Ingeniero Agronomo degree is awarded after five years and the Doctor
Ingeniero Agronomo degree after an additional two years. The school has
been in operation for only two years, whereas the other two schools in
Spain at Madrid and Valencia have operated longer.
2.16      Supplementary staff at the Andalucia Branch Station consist of
eight Ingenieros Agronomos and eight Peritos Agricolas.
2.17      Of the staff at Cordoba (including the present Director of the
station, who was appointed one month ago and was previously Farm Manager
and involved in dairy cattle and sheep), only three have had experience
with oilseeds. Only one, the present Farm Manager, will now be involved
in oilseeds research.
2.18      Six of the staff are concerned with olive research.  In addi-
tion, the UNDP has an international staff that includes the Italian
Director, involved in propagation research, an Argentinian, studying plant-
soil-water relationships, and a Frenchman concerned with plant breeding.
Research categories of the remainder of the staff are as follows: Plant
Breeding, 1; Economists, 2; Plant Pathology and Entomology, 1; Soils and
Salinity, 1; Irrigation and Water Needs, 2; Beans and Lentils, 1; Corn
1; Sugar Beets, 1; and Forages, 4. The staff of four forage specialists
is only temporarily at Cordoba and will be transferred to Badajoz when
the National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production
is established (Annex 2).
2.19      Facilities at Cordoba are meager although INIA has built a new
block of laboratories and offices for the Mediterranean Center for Olive
Research, which appears quite adequate.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
2.20      The main station is housed in an old building erected in 1944,
the central part of whiah 4S unused due to damage by termites.  There is
a small Soils Laboratory that uses only colorimetric methods and has a
bare minimum of equipment, some of it on loan from the agricultural school.
The largest room has been taken over by the Agricultural School for chemical
analysis.  The Plant Breeding Laboratory is small, with practically no
equipment and only one microacope.  Tne Plant Pathology-Entomology Laboratory
is even smaller (closet-size  w-ith no eq"#pment.  There is no library, no
greenhouse, and offices for the sta f are inadequate.  Operating hours for
the station are 9:00 a.m. to 2.3C p.m.
2.21      The station is located on 180 ha of land bordering the Guadalquivir
river. Of this area, aDproim-ately 48 ha are usable for field experiments.
The land is irrigated from a reservoir in. the hills that is insufficient
to cover the entire area..  Cor'-Iete coverage could come direct from the
river.
2.22      The buildings are centrally located , with the animal buildings
in the north central portion. The farm has 40 Friesian dairy cows, 100
Merino sheep, and 16 hogs. It also has a 5,000-liter-capacity milk pasteur-
ization plant donated by AID in 1962-63.  This plant has not been used,
however, because only 500 liters are produced by the present dairy herd.
2.23      The farm has 11 ha of olive trees, 3 ha of forages, 20 ha for
other crop experiments, and 11.5 ha in pastures; 103 ha can be added if
irrigated. This presents no problems.
2.24      The station also has a 250-ha dry land farm located near Carmona
about a one-hour drive by car from Cordoba. It is expected that this area
will come under the irrigation scheme for the region, at which time it would
be sold and another dry land farm nearer the center purchased.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project would establish a National Research Center for Plant
Oils to be located at INIA's Regional Center for Agronomic Research of
Andalucia at Cordoba. Plant oils are one of the commodities considered
of high priority to the agricultural economy of Spain.
3.02      The Project encompasses an increase in professional and tech-
nical personnel, advanced degree training, facilities, and land to strengthen
and upgrade the Cordoba station as a National Research Center.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
B. Research Program
3.03      The olive research program underway or planned jointly by
UNDP-INIA suggests that, at present, no additional support is required.
The three international specialists on hand, the training program, and the
new building with laboratories and office space seem sufficient for present
needs. There is a plan to purchase an olive farm nearby for research
studies so that the station at Jaen might be closed. No research on
processed oils, table olives, or containerization is recommended in view
of the ongoing research program at the Institute for Edible Fats and Oils of
CSIC at Sevilla. Much closer association with and awareness of each other's
activities are warranted.
3.04      Research on oilseeds would be substantially increased under the
Project to encompass all phases of plant studies to assure increased pro-
duction of sunflower, soybean, rape, and safflower. This would require
studies on fertilizers and soil fertility; improved varieties under dry
land and irrigated conditions; insects, plant disease, and weed control;
plant cultivation and harvesting techniques; and water requirements.
Varieties of high yield and good resistance to diseases would be obtained
from all available sources.
3.05      The major objective of the above program and staff, including
the UNDP Olive Research Group, is to maximize economic production of
plant oils for the national economy and thereby substantially reduce
import requirements.
C. Staffing
3.06      Local and international staffing for the olive research program
appears adequate at present. Local staffing requirements for initiating
oilseeds research are as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Category and Grouping              Professional  Technical  Clerical/Field
Administration - Standard (Annex 2)
Subtotal                           12            21             45
Plant Oils Production
Agronomy and Crop Protection
Agronomists - Improved Varieties  3              6              8
and Seed Protection
Agronomists - Weed Control          1            2              3
Entomologists and Nemotologists   1              2              1
Plant Pathologists                  2            4              4
Biochemists                         1            2              -
Subtotals                          8            16             16
Soil, Water and Engineering
Soil Scientists - Soil Fertility  2              4              4
Soil and Water Scientists -
Soil and Water Chemistry,
Salinity and Reclamation           2             4              4
Irrigation Scientists -
Irrigation Requirements
and Management                     1             2              3
Irrigation and Drainage Engineers 1              2              3
Agricultural Engineers -
Cultivation and Harvesting
Techniques                          1            2              4
Subtotals                          7            14             18
Economics and Statistics
Economists - Production             1            2              -
Economists - Marketing              1            2              -
Statisticians - Statistics         1             2              -
Subtotals                          3             6              -
TOTAL                             30            57             79
3.07      At least two extension personnel would also be located at the
station to provide contact with the extension services and to offer advice
to visitors. This would minimize the amount of time presently spent by
the staff in answering requests from local farmers and visitors.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
3.08      The foreign staff would provide the following specialists:
1 Agronomist - Oilseeds Specialist
1 Production Economist
1 Plant Disease Specialist
1 Soil and Water Specialist
One of the foreign specialists would act as Research Coordinator of
the Prolect, and his terms of reference are set out in Annex 9.
D.  Fellowships
3.09      An estimated 10 fellowships would be awarded for advanced degree
training to provide training in Agronomy, Soil Fertility, Plant Breeding,
Entomology, Plant Pathology, Production Economics, Weed Control, and Agri-
culture Engineering (Annex 8).
E. Buildings and Equipment
3.10      A new building would be constructed to house offices, labora-
tories, lecture rooms, and a library. In addition, greenhouses, workshops,
and warehouses would be needed and appropriate equipment for both farm and
laboratory and furniture would be purchased. The unused unit for milk
processing, supplied by USAID in 1966, would be transferred to the National
Research Center for Forages, Pastures, and Animal Production for the humid
zones (Annex 7). Pump and piping would be acquired to provide sufficient
irrigation water from the Guadalquivir river to irrigate the entire ex-
perimental farm.
F. Land
3.11      The farm at Cordoba station is sufficient for experimental pur-
poses requiring irrigated land, but an additional farm is needed to carry
on studies under dryland conditions (para 2.24).
G. Cost Estimates
3.12      Total cost for the National Reserach Center for Plant Oils at
Cordoba is estimated at US$3,865,000 equivalent. The foreign exchange
component is approximatelv US$2,028,000 (52%). Estimates do not include
the contribution of UNDP, nor do thev include the additional contribution
by the Government of approximately 250 ha of dry land purchased at an
estimated cost of US$250,000. They also do not include the substantial
increase in the operating budget of the Cordoba research center, including



ANNEX 4
Page 9
increased professional salaries. Buildings and equipment amount to
approximately US$2,250,000, based on the addition of an estimated 30
professional staff.
3.13      The costs for foreign research specialists, consultants and
training fellowships account for approximately 29% of the total Project
costs. They are based on four specialists, five consultants and 15 training
fellowships.
Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Category                      Local            Foreign           Total
Capital Inputs
Buildings                          720               180             900
Furnishings                        237               113             350
Farm Development                    66                16              82
Research Equipment                 113               337             450
Farm Equipment                      30                30              60
Automobiles and Trucks              45                45              90
Services and Utilities             109               109             218
Subtotal                1,320               830           2,150
Technical Services
Research Specialists (4)           244               493             760
Training Fellowships (10)           -                315             315
Consultants (5)                     20                40              60
Subtotal                  267               848           1,115
Contingencies                        250               250             500
TOTAL                   1,970             2,028           3,865
H.  Organization and Management
3.14      The Director of the Regional Center for Agronomic Research of
Andalucia at Cordoba would be the Director of the National Research
Center for Plant Oils. His appointment would be subject to Bank approval.
He would be assisted by a Research Coordinator selected with Bank approval
from the cadre of research specialists specially recruited for service at
the center as per paragraph 3.07 of the main report. The respective
duties and responsibilities of each would be as laid down in Annex 9 and
agreed to during negotiations.
February 8, 1971



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Research Center for Cereals and Grain Legumes at
El Encin next to the Regional Center for Agronomic Research
near Alcala de Henares
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Feed grains constituted the largest single agricultural import
item in 1968 (Annex 1). Although production of feed grains increased
rapidly from 1960 to 1968 (more than 100% for barley and 40% for maize), the
internal output has not met rising demands. It was thus appropriate that
the loan request of the Government I/ emphasized grain production and plant
improvement, and that the Bank preappraisal mission 2/ should have recommend-
ed that a National Center for Plant Improvement be established at El Encin near
Alcala. The El Encin Agricultural Research Station was chosen since it
lies on the central plain, which has about 20% of the wheat, 45% of the feed
barley, and 20% of the oats, and is near the Duero region, which produces
about 30% of the wheat, more than 50% of the barley, and close to 30% of
the oats. Furthermore, it is the region where significant cereal improve-
ment investigation and varietal development are being conducted, especially
triticale and maize. In addition, the strongest graduate training program
in plant improvement resides in the existing Maize Improvement Center of
Alcala, which would be incorporated in any new center. The present proposal
deviates from complete emphasis on plant improvement in favor of a commodity-
oriented center (Cereals and Grain Legumes), with emphasis on the plant
improvement approach to increased productivity.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Cereal and Grain Legumes in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Wheat occupies a larger land area (around 4.0 million ha) than
any other field crop, followed by barley (approximately 2.0 million ha),
maize and oats (nearly 0.5 million ha each), rye (0.35 million ha) and sorghum
(about 20,000 ha). Wheat acreage declined slightly from 1960 but total
1/   Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Volume I, April 1970.
2/   Bank Preappraisal Report, August 24, 1970.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
production (about 5.5 million tons in 1968) increased. Barley
acreage declined up to 1965, but since then has shown a marked rise. Fur-
thermore, per-hectare yields jumped more strikingly than those of wheat.
Acreages of oats and rye decreased during recent years, but land area devoted
to maize has steadily increased since the mid-1950s and yields rose significantly.
As yet production of grain sorghum is unimportant.
2.02      Food grains were valued at US$5.8 million in 1968 and feed grains at
US$4.6 million, making up 12.7% and 10%, respectively, of total agricultural
products. This compares with Pesetas 120.4 billion (US$17.4 million) for
all livestock and Pesetas 21.7 billion (US$3.1 million) for pastures and
forages - 37.5% and 6.7%, respectively, of the total. In 1968, imports of
feed grains were 30% above domestic production. Whereas the internal con-
sumption of wheat (on a per capita basis) is expected to decline, the demand
for feed grains will continue to rise (Annexes 1 and 2).
2.03      Grain legumes covered about 850,000 ha in 1968, both for human
consumption and animal feed. In addition, around 50,000 ha of vetches were
reported as forage. Some vetches are indigenous to Spain and forage or
grazing from spontaneous fields would not appear in a statistical report.
2.04      The following table lists grain legumes by crops 1/:
Human Consumption           Cattle Feed
Category            Hectare   Grain (Tons)   Hectare   Grain (Tons)
-------------------- (      000)-----  _ -__
Chick Peas               230         150.1
Dry Beans                 94         118.5          -
Lentils                   55          38.5          -           -
Peas                      11          10.4          17          13.4
Broad Beans               24          23.6         107         109.4
Vetches (all species)    -            -            290         226.1
Lathyrus                  -           -             20          14.2
Land area in vetches has shown a steady increase since the 1940's, gaining about
20% from 1960 to 1968. Lentils rose slightly, while the others declined to
a small extent or remained more or less constant.
2.05      Soybeans are not commercially grown in Spain.  In 1969, about 1.0
million tons of soybeans were imported and crushed in the country. The meal
was used as an ingredient of livestock feed rations, and, in addition, another
70,000 tons were imported. Maize is also a major import for stock feeding
purposes. Over 1.0 million tons were imported in 1969 (Annex 2).
1/   Anuario Estadistico de la Produccion Agricola, Campana 1967-68,
Mlinisterio de Agricultura, Madrid.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
B. Present Status of Cereals and Grain Legumes Research
Coarse Grain Cereals
2.06      A Maize Improvement Center is located at Alcala.  It is a part of
The Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA) and is headed
by Prof. Dr. Enrique Sanchez-Monge, who is highly respected in international
plant breeding circles. Maize improvement at the center is highly modernized,
comparing favorably with the better maize breeding programs in such countries
as the USA, Mexico and Colombia.
2.07      Maize breeding dates back to the 1920's at this center. Collections
of naturalized races (maize having been introduced by the Spanish after
discovering America) were classified and the germplasm used in breeding.
More recent USA introductions, however, have dominated the genetic material
for extraction of inbred lines and formulation of single and double crosses.
Successful hybrids have been constituted and figure in Spain's commercial
markets, but nationally developed types occupy only about one-eighth of the
total utilized. Several USA seed firms operate strongly in Spain and
are permitted to import inbred lines and single crosses. The final product
(the double cross), however, must be formulated within the country. Thus,
exotic hybrids constitute around seven-eighths of those sold. Hybrids are
important in the Andalucia, Ebro, Levante, and other warmer season regions
and those developed at Alcala have adapted in these areas. The northern
region produces about 40% of Spain's maize on 55% of the land area devoted
to the crop. Hybrids have not been developed for this short growing season
region, although breeding work is planned for Galicia.
2.08      Maize yields 1.8 and 3.5 tons/ha under dry land and irri-
gated conditions, respectively. In the better maize growing areas, these
figures rise to 3.0 and 5.0 tons and experimental yields are even greater.
The corn borer devastates maize plantings in some regions but lines showing
resistance are being developed.
2.09      A strong maize breeding program is underway at the Aula Dei station
at Zaragoza. Improvement began in 1948, using local maize types and
materials introduced from the USA. This program has developed and
released hybrids to the commercial market. An exchange of lines is main-
tained with Alcala.
2.10      Research on sorghum improvement is limited.  The Alcala group
has extracted inbred lines, incorporated male sterility and restorer
factors, and formulated hybrids that compare with those on the commercial
market. None, however, has been released as yet. Again, USA seed companies
dominate the sorghum hybrid seed trade with the privileges noted for maize.
Naturalized ecotypes are found in southern Spain, having been brought by
the Moors, and a collecting and evaluating campaign has begun.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Small Grain Cereals
2.11      About 20 years ago, Sanchez-Monge began work on wheat-rye hybrid-
ization for feed grain purposes and over the years developed a fertile,
plump-seeded, high grain yielding variety of triticale, recently named
Cochirulo. The grain contains an average of 18.5% crude protein (more
recent selections analyze up to 25%) and is high in lysine. Feeding
trials with chickens show triticale may replace all maize and fish meal
normally used in rations. It can also be substituted for 20% of wheat in flour
for human consumption. Tests are planned with pigs and cattle. Cochirulo
is adapted to the same soil and climatic conditions as wheat and barley and
trials in a number of locations (65 in 1969/70) showed that it performed as
well or better than wheat. These tests have created a demand exceeding the
present output of seed, expected to be around 600,000 kg in 1971. The
present variety grows tall and sometimes lodges at maturity although short-
statured lines have been encountered. A thrust now aims at the development
of a hybrid triticale by using male sterile and restorer lines. Development
of this new feed grain is a real breakthrough for Spain.  Many other countries
have initiated triticale breeding programs and one variety is available on
a limited basis in the USA, while Hungary has released one on an experiment-
al basis.
2.12      Wheat, barley, oat, and rye improvement research is done at the INIA
Cereal Culture Center at Madrid and new varieties have been developed. Of
the 36 wheat varieties listed in the register of varieties in 1961, seven
were of INIA origin, 13 were from other Spanish sources, and the remainder
were foreign. Limited hybridizations are made each year. Line, selection,
and varietal tests at El Encin are coordinated with restricted trials at
outlying stations. European material has been rather well evaluated, but
little Canadian or USA germplasm enters the breeding program. Mexican
wheats were tested in 1969 and reportedly did poorly. Two were chosen for
hybridization with local lines in 1970.
2.13      Barley improvement has received little attention but intensifi-
cation is planned. Hybridization of local varieties with Hyperoly, a high
protein selection from the USA may provide improved quality as a feed
grain.
2.14      A rather vigorous breeding program on improvement of small grain
cereals, which is probably as effective as the INIA Madrid program, is
conducted at Zaragoza. There is contact and collaboration with the Madrid
program. Significant work is also underway for cold tolerance in oats and
varietal testing of small grain cereals is carried out at Valladolid, Bada-
joz, and Jerez de la Frontera. To some degree, this is also coordinated
with the Cereal Culture Center at Madrid.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Grain _mes
2.15      Little more than varietal and selection testing has been done
with chickpeas, lentils, dry beans, peas, broad beans, and most vetches. A
project for improvement of two grain (and/or forage) legumes, Vicia monathos
and Ervum ervilia, was recently initiated. Native or naturalized ecotypes
exist.
2.16      A small INIA group at Cordoba recently began improvement studies
with broad beans and vetches, giving attention to genetic studies, with
some effort devoted to creation of new varieties. Worldwide collections
were recently sown and Spanish ecotypes are to be surveyed.
General
2.17      The professional staff in the INIA Maize Improvement and Cereal
Culture program at Madrid is as follows:
Ingenieros   Ingenieros
Agronomos   Agronomos   Other
Category            (Doctorate)               (Biol., Chem.)  Technical
Maize, Sorghum, and
Triticale                   4            -             -              6
Small Grain Cereals            5           1             4             10
Grain Legumes (also in
Cereals)                     1           -             -              -
A number of the INIA research staff also teach at the nearby Agronomy School.
This is a supplement to the five-hour working day at INIA.
2.18      At the El Ebro - Aula Dei Center at Zaragoza, the plant improve-
ment groups are as follows:
Ingenieros   Ingenieros
Agronomos   Agronomos         Other
_ategory            (Doctorate)                (Biol., Chem.)  Technical
Maize                     1           -              2              5
Cereals                               2              1              3
2.19      At INIA Headquarters, on the university campus, there are well
equipped chemistry (quality) and plant pathology laboratories. A cramped
cytogenetics laboratory provides limited study, while inadequate greenhouse
space hampers intensive research but permits serviceable cereal disease
evaluation. Six climatic chambers allow precision investigation needing
controlled temperature, light and humidity, but are not being efficiently
utilized. Library facilities are satisfactory.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
2.20      At the Alcala unit. there is a well equipped and effectively
designed operations building for maize, sorghum, and triticale breeding.
This includes equipment for threshing and seed cleaning and processing and
a large dryer, seed germinators, and the like.
2.21      The El Encin Station near Madrid and Alcala covers 800 ha, some
200 of which can presently be irrigated. The plant improvement groups use 20
ha for maize and triticale improvement, plus 60 ha for increasing foundation
seed of the new triticale variety, and the small grain cereals and grain
legume investigations occupy several hectares. Ample arable land exists for
expansion. In addition to the 7.0 ha of the Maize Improvement Center, the
Alcala group rents land for isolation of breeding material.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      A National Research Center for Cereals and Grain Legumes, with
emphasis on plant improvement, would be established as one of the chain of
six such commodity-oriented specialist centers under the Project for Agri-
cultural Research. The center would be located on part of the El Encin
station of INIA, near Alcala, Madrid. Its major objective would be to
provide improved varieties of cereals and grain legumes, along with the
necessary agronomic knowledge and practices to ensure maximum economic
exploitation.
3.02      The center would be recognized as the key station in Spain for
cereal and grain legume production and improvement research. It would provide
leadership, guidance, and coordination for such reseaich at other National
Research Centers where ecological conditions necessitate the testing and
selection of varieties of crops and their improvement at localities other
than at El Encin.
B. Research Program
3.03      Plant production and improvement research programs would cover
all areas of varietal development and improvement, improved cultural and
harvesting practices, varietal and strain testing, and seed production and
maintenance. Commodity groupings would be established as follows:
(a)  Coarse grain cereals      - maize and sorghum
(b)  Small grain cereals       - wheat, barley, triticale, oats,
and rye
(c)  Grain legumes             - chickpeas, lentils, broad beans,
dry beans, and vetch.



ANNEX 5
Psgo  7
3.04      The overall investigational approaclh would be as follows:
(a)  Improved Agronomic Practices:  Sowing time and density;
fertilizer requirements; irrigation and water management;
weed control; disease and insect control; crop rotation;
harvest practices; and mechanization;
(b)  Varietal Development and Improvement:  Collection, study,
and conversation of germplasm; creation of new varieties;
increased production; disease and pest resistance; quality;
and standing ability;
(c)  Varietal and Strain Testing:  Comparative testing of lines,
selections, cultivars for both the center and other sites;
and integration of demonstration tests; and
(d)  Seed Maintenance and Multiplication:  Production of breeding
lines; production of breeder and foundation seed; and integration
and collaboration with the National Seed Institute, the Nat-
ional Cereal Commission, and Register of Varieties.
C. Staffing
3.05      The entire staff of the Maize Improvement Program of INIA would
provide the nucleus staff of the center, supplemented by the more modern
members of the staff of the Cereals Culture Program. These two Programs
would be abolished. Project management would use considerable discretion
on staff selection, making full use of the professional advice of the Center
Director, his Reseach Coordinator, and the National Research Coordinator.
3.06      The total staff requirements of the center would be as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Category and Grouping        Professional  Technical  Clerical/Field
1.   Administration-Standard (Annex 2)
Subtotal                        11         21             45
Production
Alronomis ts
Seed Technology                  2          4              6
Practices and Management         2           4             6
Weed Control                     1           2             3
Soil, Water and Engineering
Soil Scientists                  2           4             4
Water Scientists                 2           4             4
Drainage Engineers               1           2             3
Subtotal                   10         20             26
Economics and Statistics
Economists (Farm Management)    2            2
Statisticians                    1           2
Subtotal                    3          4
Plant Improvement
Plant Breeders                        4           6             8
(Coarse Grains)
Plant Breeders                        4           6              8
(Small Grains)
Plant Breeders                        2           3             4
(Grain Legumes)
Pathologists                          3           6             6
Chemists                              2           4             -
Physiologists                         2           4              2
Cytogeneticists                       1           2             -
Entomologists                         1           2             -
Nematologists                          1          2             -
Subtotal                        20         35             28
Total                           44          80            99
3.07      This staff group would be assisted during the construction period
of the Project by three specialists recruited from outside Spain. One of
these would act as Research Center Coordinator.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
D. Fellowships
3.08      Training fellowships under the Project (Annex 8) would be
allocated to plant production and improvement. There would be 15 of
these, of which about two-thirds would be degree fellowships, and the
remainder post-doctoral of 12 months and professional improvement of two
to four months.
E. Buildings, Equipment,and Land
3.09      The center would need a completely new and comprehensive set of
buildings on the El Encin site. Laboratory equipment would also be required to
supplement that of the units transferred to the center.   Approximately 225
ha would be allocated to the center, the precise location to be determined
in consultation with the Bank. Development costs would include roading,
leveling for irrigation, irrigation services, drainage, and general services
of water, sewerage, and power.
F.  Cost and Estimates
3.10      Total cost of the center would be approximately US$5.1
million.  This would have a foreign exchange component of about US$2.4
million.  These are capital costs and do not include the additional operating
expenses to be borne by Government.
3.11      Buildings, equipment, and the like would amount to about
US$3.4 million, or 66% of total cost; technical services would reach US$0.9
million, or 18% of total; contingencies of US$0.8, or 16% of total cost,
are allowed. Relevant details are shown below, based on a professional
staff complement of 45:



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Local     Foreign      Total
Cate_ory
Capital Inputs
Buildings                        1,080         270      1,350
Furnishings                        506         169        675
Farm Development                    99          25        12L
Research Equipment                 169         506        675
Farm Equipment                      45          45         90
Automobiles and Trucks              68          67        135
Services and Utilities             163         163        326
Subtotal                       2,130      1,245       3,375
Technical Services
Research Specialists (3)          '185         370        555
Consultants                         20          40         60
Training Fellowships (15)                      315        315
Subtotal                         205         725        930
Contingencies                         400         400        800
Total                     2,735      2,370       5,105
G. Organization and Management
3.12      The Director of the National Research Center for Cereals and Grain
Legumes would be charged with the overall research programs of the center,
the overall station management, and integration of plant improvement located
at other centers and sites. His appointment would be subject to Bank
approval. He would be assisted by a foreign Research Coordinator who would
be competent in plant production and improvement and preferably have some
administrative experience. The respective duties and responsibilities of
each would be as laid down in Annex 9 and agreed to during negotiations.
The center would operate independently of the Regional Center for Agronomic
Research.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SPAIN
National Research Center for Citrus at
the Regional Center for Agronomic Research
of Levante near Valencia
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain 1/and the Bank Preappraisal mission2/
recommended that Valencia be selected as the National Center for Citrus
Research. Its selection was based on its location near the major centers
for orange and mandarin production with lemon production centered adjacent to
and south of Valencia province in the province of Murcia. Furthermore, Va-
lencia has an agricultural research complex composed of the Instituto Nacional
de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA) and the Consejo Superior de Investiga-
ciones Cientificas (CSIC), institutions which could serve as the basis for
the development of a National Research Center for Citrus.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Citrus in the Spanish Economy
2.01      Citrus production accounted for almost 4% of the value of agri-
cultural production in Spain and roughly one-third (about US$230 million
equivalent) of the value of agricultural exports in 1969. Orange production
accounted for 85% of citrus production and exports. Production is concen-
trated in the Levante region although production in the Andalucia area is
expected to increase most rapidly in the future.
2.02      Mandarin oranges and lemons account for the remaining citrus
production (only a small amount of grapefruit is produced). Both of these
crops enjoy an expanding market and production has doubled in the last 15
years (orange production has increased by 65%).
1/   Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Volume I, April 1970.
2/   Bank Preappraisal Mission Report, August 24, 1970.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
2.03      Exports of oranges have actually declined by about 15% since
1965-67. Exports of mandarin oranges have increased by 25% in the same
period. Orange groves in the Levante area are presently subject to the
Tristeza disease and major replacement of rootstocks is in order.
2.04      Demand prospects for fresh citrus fruits are only moderately
bright while those for the industrial market (juices and concentrates)
are much better. The development of new varieties of oranges and processing
facilities suited to this market would allow a substantial expansion of the
sector.
B. Present Status of Citrus Research
2.05      Citrus research is fragmented among a number of research, insti-
tutions located at Valencia and Murcia, financed by the Ministries of
Agriculture and Education. The Estacion Naranjera de Levante, the
Estacion de Fitopatologia Agricola, and the Seccion de Industrias y
Conservas Vegetales, which are all now a part of INIA, are located 10 km from
Valencia at Burjasot. In Valencia is the CSIC Instituto de Investigaciones
de Agroquimica y Tecnologia de Alimentos, and at Murcia, the CSIC Centro de
Edafologia y Biologia Aplicada del Segura. Both are involved in research
of citrus processing and technology but also include some soils and
cultivation studies, particularly at Murcia; each is financed by the Ministry
of Education through CSIC.
2.06      Approximately 70% of the research at the INIA station is devoted
to studies and control of Tristeza, or quick decline of citrus. This
disease appeared about 1957 and affects about 200 million trees, or 5%
to 6% of the total. Most of the research is on testing of Tristeza on
tolerant rootstocks primarily received from the USA. The work is part of
an overall research program on the problem directed by a Commission from the
President's Office, and includes histochemical studies at the CSIC
institute at Valencia and soil-plant relationships at the CSIC institute at
Murcia.
2.07      Also at Buriasot is a soils group involved in fertilizer and
herbicide trials of varieties of citrus in experiments on farms in the
vicinity of Valencia. There is great variation in the numbers and
varieties of citrus grown, with little coordination for establishment of a
uniform product for processing and export. Efforts in this direction are
undenvay, and Government has reduced the numbers of nurseries from over
?' lO) to six to control Tristeza and establish uniformity.
2.08      A small plant protection group studies various diseases and
insects affecting citrus. Most of the work is devoted to biological control
of leaf scale, a Cochinilla that attacks about 10% of the citrus. The bio-
logical control insect Novius is distributed to farmers at a small charge.
Research on citrus virus is also being done.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
2.09      There is also a fruit technology group at Burjasot that is
involved in controlled atmosphere storage of fruits and vegetables designed
to extend life and quality. Approximately 60% to 70% of its effort is spent
on improving quality and extending life of the fruits. Some research on
citrus juices is also underway but is unimpressive, with little evidence
that equipment is in operation to any great extent.
2.10      Far more impressive is the citrus technological research being
carried out by the CSIC institutes in Valencia and Murcia. An indication
of its caliber is the fact that the next Citrus World Congress, in 1973,
will be held at Murcia. Up-to-date laboratories, equipment, and professional
staff are involved in all aspects of citrus processing, such as extraction,
freezing, freeze drying, canning, bottling, contamination, and residue studies.
Economic studies on internal and external markets for citrus are also
carried out. At Murcia, a soils group is working to correlate macro and
micronutrient analyses of soils with foliar analyses to determine techniques
for modifying symptoms of chlorosis due to various elemental deficiencies.
Approximately 6,000 soils analyses are carried out at Murcia. primarily as
a service to recommend fertilizer amendments to citrus growers, as well
as to growers of other crops. The extension service, however, is gradually
taking this work over. Nevertheless. interesting soils problems requiring
more than routine analyses are undertaken when a given farm has a special
citrus problem. In general. the CSIC institutes appear to have far closer
contacts with industry and farmers than does the INIA group.
2.11      At the CSIC Valencia institute, a nine-year contract with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture on detection of foreign additives in orzange juice
has just terminated. There is also a study on correlating foliar analyses
of citrus of various organic and inorganic constituents with specific appli-
cation of fertilizers. An identical study is being initiated at the INIA
research station at Burjasot, near Valencia.
2.12      There are presently 16 professional staff members at the INIA
station at Burjasot operating in citrus research. In addition, there are
four in vegetables and two in rice. Supporting staff consists of about 35
technical and research assistants. Of the professional staff in citrus,
seven are Doctoree Ingenieros Agronomos, one of whom has just received a Ph.D.
from Sussex in Plant Physiology, and the rest are Ingenieros Agronomos.
This compares with a professional staff of 132 at the CSIC Valencia
institute and a professional staff of 61 at the CSIC Murcia institute.
2.13      Hours at the INIA station are from 9:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.  Many of
the staff are involved in teaching at the Superior School of Agriculture in
Valencia, which awards the Ingeniero Agronomo degree. Hours at the CSIC
Valencia institute are from 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. to 6:30
p.m. Hours at the CSIC Murcia institute are from 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
and 4:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. The Director of the CSIC institute at Valencia
has a university degree and also teaches at the Superior School. The CSIC
institute at Valencia has a 10-month training program for approximately 30



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Ingenieros Agronomos and university students studying food technology.
They spend nine hours a day at the institute where they are instructed.
in all aspects of food processing. At the end of the course, they receive
a degree in food technology.
2.14      The staff at the INIA station at Burjasot may be categorized
as follows:
Citrus Improvement                   4
Plant Pathology and Entomology       5
Food Technology                      4
Economics                            2
Soils                                1
2.15      The facilities at Burjasot are poor.  The original main building was
abandoned some years ago due to termite damage.  The main building now in
use houses the soils and citrus improvement groups.  The plant pathology
and entomology building is over 40 years old and has poor insectary laboratory
and office facilities. This is the oldest unit on the Burjasot station and
is partly financed and operated by the Plant Protection Service of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The food technology group is in yet another build-
ing nearby which has been converted to use by the construction of small
refrigerated and controlled temperature rooms. There is also a small pilot
plant for juice extraction and storage of liquid nitrogen. Some greenhouse
space is available for nursery stock and propagation purposes as well as
for studying citrus virus diseases. The library is unsatisfactory.
2.16      The station is located on about 10 ha of land, seven ha of which
are in citrus. It is located in an urban area and is quite unsuitable for
carrying out an effective citrus research program.
2.17      A citrus farm, owned by one family and known as Campo Anibal, is
being considered as a new experimental site. INIA proposes to purchase this
withA finance obtained from the sale of the urban sites on which work is
currently proceeding.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project would establish a National Research Center for Citrus
near Valencia on the Campo Anibal site. Citrus is one of the four
commodities considered of high priority to the export agricultural economy
Gf Spain. The selection of Valencia as a Citrus Center was agreed by
the Nlinistry of Agriculture, with assistance of the Bank Group.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
3.02      The Project would combine and transfer the existing units of INIA
to the new center. It would increase and upgrade research, with special
emphasis on developing alternative systems of processing and marketing for
export, as well as on production techniques.
B. Research Program
3.03      Research would be designed to increase citrus production through
improved cultivation practices which are economic and will reduce produc-
tion costs and improve quality. Research into improved varieties, better
fertilizer and water use, and pest control would be undertaken.
3.04      Since many citrus operations in the Valencia area are on small
land holdings, averaging 0.8 ha, research on land use, mechanization, and
cooperative techniques for planting, spraying, and harvest would be carried
out to substantially reduce labor costs and improve profitability.
3.05      More research would be done in the packaging and processing of
citrus fruits and juices to effectively retain and increase Spain's
share of the world markets. Research on packaging materials, refrigerated
containers, and frozen and containerized citrus juices would be undertaken
to produce high quality products for local consumption and export.
3.06      As quality and annual production of citrus and processed products
are improved, market and economic research would be required to retain and
expand local and world markets. High quality citrus would also be studied
for national and international "brand naming" possibilities.
3.07      The programs on all aspects of the production of citrus would
be carried out at the new center: all post-harvest research, including proces-
sing, contamination, packaging, transport, and marketing aspects of the pro-
gram, would be contracted by the center to the CSIC institutes at Valencia
and Murcia.
C. Staffing
3.08      Staffing for the preharvest research on citrus by the INIA group
would be as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
a_tegry and Grouping                Professional  Technical  Clerical/Field
Administration - Standard (Annex 2)
Subtotal                             11           21           45
Citrus Production
Horticulture and Plant Protection
Horticulturists - Improved Citrus   4              8           10
Horticulturists - Plant Nutrition   2              4            4
Entomologists - Nematologist          2            4            2
Plant Pathologists - Viral, fungal
bacterial       3            6           6
Horticulturists - Weed Control        1            2            3
Subtotal                        12          24           25
Soil, Water and Engineering
Soil Scientists - Soil Fertility    1              2            3
Soil and Water Chemists               1            2            3
Irrigation Scientists - Irrigation  1              2            4
Requirements and Management
Irrigation and Driinage Engineers   1              2            3
Agricultural Engineers - Cultivation
and Harvesting Techniques           1            2            3
3          10           16
Economics and Statistics
Economists - Production               1            2            -
Statisticians - Statistics            1            2            -
Subtotal                         2           4            -
Total                     30           59           86
3.09      Strength would be given to the Project by appointment of three
research specialists with foreign qualifications and experience.  One would
be a citrus specialist, one an agricultural engineer (mechanization), and
one a virologist. One member of this team would act as Research Co-
ordinator of the center.
D. Fellowships
3l()      An estimated 10 fellowships would be awarded by the INIA center
to provide advanced degree training In citrus research, soil fertility,



ANNEX 6
Page 7
plant breeding, entomology, plant pathology, weed control, agricultural en-
gineering. and production economics.  In addition, five fellowships would be
awarded for advanced degrees in food technology of citrus fruits and in
marketing through contracts with the CSIC stations at Valencia and Murcia.
E. Buildings and Equipment
3.11      Completely new buildings, greenhouses and accessory facilities
would be constructed at the Campo Anibal site. The buildings would include
laboratories, a library, offices, and lecture and conference rooms, as well
as service facilities. Sheds, storage rooms, farm equipment, tools, and all
material required to handle field research on citrus would be transferred
from the existing site. Additional research equipment would be needed.
F. Land
3.12      The proposed Campo Anibal site is 25 km north of Valencia.  It is
presently in orange, lemons, and mandarin production on completely surface-
irrigated land.  There are 88 ha of land in total.  As a condition of
effectiveness, INIA would provide evidence that this site had been acquired
by Government and would be available for development as the National Research
Center for Citrus.
G. Cost Estimates
3.13      Total cost for the National Research Center for Citrus is estimated
at US$3,965,000. The foreign exchange component is approximately US$1,979,000.
Estimates do not include the additional contribution by the Government of
approximately 88 ha of irrigated citrus land purchased at an estimated
cost of US$1,000,000. They also do not include the increase in the operating
budget due to increased staff, increased salaries, and the cost of sub-
contracting processing research.
3.14      Buildings and equipment amount to approximately US$2,250,000, or
about 57% of the total.
3.15      The costs of international research specialists, consultants and
training fellowships account for approximately US$1,115,000, or 28% of
total cost.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Cost Estimates
(US $' 000)
Category                                    Local   Foreign    Total
Capital Inputs
Buildings                                720         180        900
Furnishings                              337        113         450
Farm Development                          66         17          83
Research Equipment                       113         337        450
Farm Equipment                            30          30         60
Automobiles and Trucks                    45          45         90
Services and Utilities                _lo          109         217
Subtotal                       1,419         831       2,250
Technical Services
Reseatch Specialists (4)                 247        493         740
Training Fellowships (15)                 -          315        315
Consultants (5)                           20         40          60
Subtotal                         267         848      1,115
Contingencies                               300         300        600
Total                         _1_986       1979        3,_65
H. Organization and Management
3.16      The Director of the Regional Center for Agronomic Research of
Levante at Valencia would be the Director of the National Research Center
for Citrus. His appointment would be subject to Bank approval. He would
be assisted by a Research Coordinator selected with Bank approval from the
cadre of research specialists specially recruited for service at the center
as per paragraph 3.07 of the main report. The respective duties and res-
ponsibilities of each would be as laid down in Annex 9 and agreed to during
negotiations.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and
Animal Production for the Humid Zones of Spain at
the Regional Center for Agronomic Research Near
La Coruna
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Initially the Government of Spain gave relatively low priority
to the need for upgrading agricultural research work in the Cantabrica
zone of the north and northwest of the country. Accordingly, the Bank
preappraisal mission omitted this region from serious consideration. How-
ever, second thoughts of Government resulted in a reversal of opinion so
that a National Research Center for the north devoted to the production
of meat and milk was advanced to highest priority. The main reason for
the change was an appreciation of the importance of increasing national
self-sufficiency in foods of animal origin along with a recognition that
the zone in question is by far the most important animal producing section
in the country, with a large potential for increased production. Under these
circumstances, the appraisal mission re-examined the situation and, after
several visits to the zone, concurred with Government views. A specialized
research unit in Cantabrica is thus included in the chain of centers now
proposed for TBRD support. The center would be located in Galicia, the
largest province, where there are about one and a half million hectares of
easily improvable land and where it would have the additional advantage
of being handy to the University of Santiago. Acquisition of suitable
land for the center should not prove a difficult problem for Government,
even though a relatively large block of land approximately 200 to 300 ha,
bearing level contour and uniform soil type, would be necessary.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production in
the Spanish Economy
2.01      The region of the north of Spain, comprising several provinces
(collectively known as Cantabrica), lies along the north and northwest coast
of the country, bordering the Bay of Biscay and the Atlantic Ocean. Ecologi-
cally, it is a distinct part of the country, differing radicallv from the
rest of Spain. Cantabrica enjoys a temperate climate, characterized by high
evenly distributed rainfall and mild temperatures. Under these conditions,
it supports typical high production temperate-zone-type pastures of rve



ANNEX 7
Page 2
grass, white clover, red clover, and cocksfoot. In fact, ecologically,
the zone may be usefully described as the "New Zealand" of Western Europe,
with a similar potential for producing low cost animal products from grass-
land. This makes the area stand out in marked contrast to the rest of
Spain, which suffers a ?Iediterranean-type climate, characterized by high
temperatures and low uneven rainfall, where high qualitv pastures can
be supported only under high cost irrigation.
2.02      Cantabrica has already capitalized its natural advantages by
developing a livestock economy based on grassland. It carries 50% of the
total cattle of the country and contributes more than half the beef and
milk of the nation. It is able to do this despite having only 10% of the
total land area. Its contribution to animnal production is not confined
to finished products since a large portion of the young cattle fattened
in the south are bred in the zone and sold as calves or weaners. Animal
production is not dependent on imported feeding stuffs as is the case in
the south. Stock is maintained on natural and improved pastures, supple-
mented in winter with forage crops and maize.
2.03      Although the pastures used are mostly superior to those of the
rest of the countrv, they are well below the standard possible. Improved
strains of pasture plants, increased fertilizer use, and better management
and utilization practices could at least double production levels from
existing grassland. In addition, vast areas of land currently supporting
forest, gorse, bracken, and scrub could be transformed readily to high
producing grassland. Onlv 10% of the 'land area is presently so improved.
Four to five times this area await development.
2.04      These factors restrict the number of animals carried in the zone.
Per animal performance is likewise limited, 2specially in milk production,
per-cow yields being substantially below those of England, Denmark, Holland,
and Germany. Grazing management and indoor feeding of fattening stock
reduce growth rate and increase losses. Yields of both beef and milk
could be lifted 30% to 3O% by the use of modern technology.
2.05      These descriptive notes should be read in conjunction with
Chapter II, Section A of Annex 2, which describes the importance and weak-
ness of the animal industry in Spain.
B. Present Status of Pasture5 FPrages and
Animal Production Research in Humid Zones
2006      Agricultural research of the zone is carried out at the regional
center of the instituto Nacional de investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA) at
La Coruna.  This unit was established 30 years ago as a plant pathology
in;stitute. It operated in this restricted role until some three or four
years ago whien its functions were broadened to include pasture improvement
e :R`nimal production.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
2.07      Research facilities consist mainly of a laboratorv and office
block, handy to the city, but they are unsuitable for the enlarged responsi-
bilities of the station. Laboratory space is inadequate and not designed
for plant and animal production work. The farm is too small to permit
more than small plot studies of pastures and too hillv and uneven in soil
type to permit adequate replication of even these. No breeding stock can
be maintained, so that animal production research is limited to indoor
fattening experiments with purchased cattle.
2.08      The center is headed by a Doctor of Agronomy who has a reputa-
tion for being the most competent temperate-zone pasture specialist in
Spain. He has limited qualifications and experience, however, in animal
science. Of his staff of 18 Ingenieros Agronomos, 16 are recent graduates
appointed during the last three years. As yet, they are relatively untried
in research but are keen and seem likely to react well to better opportun-
ities.
2.09      If the center is to fulfill its role in an adequate manner, it
must be transferred to a new site having from 200 to 300 ha of more suitable
land. A suitable site has been identified near La Coruna at Mabegondo in
Galicia. The two owners of the 325 ha typical of the zone have offered
to sell the land to the Government, which is currently negotiating to
purchase.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      A National Research Center for Pastures, Forages, and Animal
Production would be one of the chain of commodity-oriented specialized
research centers to be established under the Project. It would concentrate
on problems associated with the conversion of permanent pasture to meat and
milk. It would be located at the INIA Regional Center for Agronomic Research
of the North and Northwest. This Regional Center is currently located at
La Coruna, but would be transferred to a new site of 325 ha at Mabegondo
in the province of Galicia. A condition of the Project would be the identi-
fication and purchase of a suitable property, selection of which would be
subject to IBRD approval.
B. Research Program
3.02      The research program would employ, essentially, an approach
similar to that described in Annex 2 for the National Research Center for
Pastures, Forages and Animal Production at Badajoz, with differences related
to the specific ecological and economic characteristics of Cantabrica. Beef
would receive the greatest attention on the meat side, with due recognition



ANNEX 7
Page 4
of the intimate interdependence of beef and milk in the zone. Specialized
beef production would be the main interest at Badajoz. Pig meat produc-
tion studies would also be made. Milk production per se as a major pro-
duct of the area would have a high priority, with special emphasis on graz-
ing management, milking management, and the production of an improved quality
product. Irrigation studies would not be carried out. Overall, concentration
would be on intensive, rather than extensive, operations on improved rainfed
grassland. The center would not duplicate the basic studies on animal health
proposed for the Badajoz center although it would include evaluation studies
of feed and fodder characteristic of the zone, using standard nutritional
techniques, thus complementing the comparable Badajoz work on dry land,
native, and irrigated pastures.
C. Staffing
3.03      Staffing requirements would be:
Category and Grouping                Professional    Technical      Clerical/Field
Administration Standard (Annex 2)
Subtotal                  11             21               45
Animal Production
Husbandry                             5             10               18
Nutrition                             3              6               10
Breeding                              3              3               _
Subtotal                  11             19               28
Pastures and Forages
Agrostologists                        6             12                6
Fertilizers                           1              2                -
Conservation                          2              4
Breeding                              2              2                -
Subtotal                  11             20                6
Services
Chemical - Biochemists                2              4
- Analysts                  6             12
Economics and Statistics
- Economists                2              4
- Statisticians             1              2
Farm machinery                        2              4
Metabolism                            3              6
Health - Veterinarians                2              4
Farm Managers                         1              3               20
Subtotal                  19             39               20
TOTAL                     52             99               99



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Staff would be recruited, not only from the agronomic field, but from pure
science and veterinary medicine. Estimates do not include four foreign
specialists.
D. Fellowships
3.04      The Project would provide 15 fellowships (three year) for overseas
training, as outlined in Annex 8. In selection of suitable countries for
training in the field side of the research speciality of the center, coun-
tries with similar ecologies to the Project area would be given priority
consideration.
E. Buildings and Equipment
3.05      Since new siting of the center is proposed, a complete land develop-
ment program would be necessary. This would involve land clearance, level-
ing and drainage, pasture establishment, fencing, roading, and other services.
Special attention would be directed to farm layout in fencing and roading
to permit adequate replication of field animal/pasture experiments to meet
the standards of modern-type research.
3.06      Laboratories and office accommodation would be constructed, along
with animal buildings for all three classes of stock.  These would include
fattening barns, dairy barns, milking parlors, calf rearing sheds, and an-
cillary facilities, such as hay barns, silos, and workshops. The milk treat-
ment plant now at the Cordoba center would be transferred to the area and
suitably housed.
3.07      Of special importance to the center would be the farm animals
required. To permit work on a reasonable scale, a milking herd of at least
200 cows, a beef breeding herd of similar size, and a breeding sow herd of
100 would be required.
F. Land
3.08      The center would be established on a new site at Mabegondo, about
25 km from La Coruna. Evidence of arrangements to purchase would be a con-
dition of effectiveness.
G.  Cost Estimates
3.09      Calculations on the same basis as that used for the other centers
suggest that the total capital cost, excluding land purchase, would be about



ANNEX 7
Page 6
US$4.8 million. About US$2.0 million of this would be foreign exchange.
Costs do not include land acquisition of about US$250,000 and the extra
operating expenses to be borne by Government.
3.10      The building and development and equipment costs would account
for about US$3.0 million, or 62% of the total. Technical services would
absorb US$1.0 million, or 1%. Contingencies account for the remainder.
Details are summarized:
Cost Estimates
(US$ '000)
Category                                  Local      Foreign    Total
Capital Inputs:
Buildings                                   960         240       1,200
Furnishings                                  450        150         600
Farm Development                              88         22          110
Research Equipment                           150        450         600
Farm Equipment                                40         40           80
Autos and Trucks                              60         60          120
Services and Utilities                      145         145         290
Subtotal                          1,893      1,107        3,000
Technical Services
Research Specialists (4)                     247        493          740
Consultants (5)                               20         40           60
Training Fellowships (15)                    -          315         315
Subtotal                            267         848       1,115
Contingencies                                  400        400          800
Total                             22560       2,355       42915
H. Organization and Management
3.11      The Director of the Regional Center for Agronomic Research of
the North and Northwest would be the Director of the National Research Center
for Pastures, Forages, and Animal Production. His appointment would be
subject to Bank approval. He would be assisted by a Research Coordinator
selected with Bank approval from the cadre of research specialists specially
recruited for service at the center as per paragraph 3.07 of the main report.
The respective duties and responsibilities of each would be as laid down in
Annex 9 and agreed to during negotiation.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Overseas Graduate Training Fellowships
1.01      Fellowships for training graduates would be processed by the
Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA). Candidate selection
would be made by the President and Vice-President of INIA and Directors of
the National Research Centers, with the advice and assistance of the National
Research Coordinator, Research Center Coordinators, and research specialists.
1.02      The overseas university or training institution and course of
training would be approved by joint agreement of the senior center staff,
the National Research Coordinator, the Research Center Coordinators, and
research specialists. The foreign staff would advise in making institutional
contacts and arrangements for placement of the personnel, subject to contract
arrangements made between INIA and a contracting agency approved by the Bank.
1.03      Fellowships would be of three types 1/:
(a) Fellowships leading to the award of a doctorate level degree, re-
quiring approximately three years training. This would involve
about 80 fellowships. Doctorate fellowships could be of two types:
(i) academic research and dissertation research at the chosen uni-
versity; and (ii) academic research at the chosen university
(about two years), and dissertation research in Spain under
an internationally recognized researcher (this would involve
a return trip to the university for the final examination);
(b) Short-term fellowships (post-doctoral type) of one year or
more for study in a particular field of research. This would
involve about 15 doctorate-equivalent fellowships or 45 one-year
fellowships; and
(c) Short-term fellowships for senior research officers and/or
administrative personnel for visits to selected international
institutions involved in research or research administration
in the key commodities of importance to the Spanish economy.
These fellowships would involve tours of two to four months.
They would total about five doctorate-equivalent fellowships,
or 75 two-and-a-half-month fellowships.
1.04      The categories for the overseas graduate fellowships would be as
follows, numbers being reduced by the number of short-term fellowships
awarded.
1/   Base 100, three-year units made up of 80, three-year, 45 one-year and
75 two- to four-month fellowships.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(a) Animal Production (Meat and Dairy), Pastures
and Forages                                        Fel lowsj4ps
Animal Nutrition - Cattle                               4
Animal Nutrition -Sheep                                 4
Animal Diseases                                         4
Agronomy - Pastures and Forages - Production            4
Agronomy - Pastures and Forages - Breeding              4
Plant Pathology                                         3
Entomology                                              4
Soil and Water                                          4
Agronomy - Weed Control                                 2
Production Economics                                    2
35
(b) Fruits and Vegetables
Pomology - Tree Fruits - Production                     2
Pomology - Tree Fruits - Breeding                       1
Horticulture - Vegetables - Production                  1
Horticulture - Vegetables - Breeding                    1
Plant Pathology                                         2
Entomology                                              1
Soil and Water                                          3
Agronomy - Weed Control                                 1
Agricultural Engineering                                2
Production Economics                                    1
Food Technology - Fruits                                2
Food Technology - Vegetables                            2
Marketing                                               1
20
(c) Cereals and Grain Legumes
Plant Production                                        5
Plant Breeding (Including Training of
some Candidates in Plant Physiology)                  7
Plant Pathology                                         2
Entomology                                              1
Soil and Water                                          2
Agronomy (Including Weed Control)                       2
Production Economics                                    1
20



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Fellowships
(d) Plant Oils
Agronomy - Plant Oils-Production                        2
Agronomy - Plant Oils-Breeding                          2
Soil Fertility                                          1
Plant Pathology                                         2
Entomology                                              1
Agronomy - Weed Control                                 1
Production Economics                                    1
10
(e) Citrus
Pomology - Citrus-Production                            2
Pomology - Citrus-Breeding                              2
Plant Pathology                                         2
Entomology                                              1
Soil Fertility                                          1
Agricultural Engineering                                1
Production Economics                                    1
Food Technology - Citrus                                4
Marketing                                               1
15
Total            100
1.05      Fellowships in Food Technology and Marketing of tree fruits,
vegetables, and citrus would be allocated by INIA to the Consejo Superior
de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC) institutes at Valencia and Murica. The
INIA staff, the Research Coordinators, and research specialists Ji tree fruits,
vegetables, and citrus would assist and approve the selection of candidates
from the CSIC institutes at Valencia and Murcia for overseas graduate train-
ing fellowships. Also, one of the fellowships in each of the five groups
above would be assigned to the extension service of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture.
1.06      Long-term fellowships would be in countries that can provide the
training most appropriate for the needs of the Project. Short-term fellow-
ships would be for visits to specific institutions or countries for specific
Project purposes.
1.07      All fellowships would be conditional on recipients agreeing to
return to Spain for service in the Government research field for a minimum
period equivalent to twice the time spent abroad.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
1.08      INIA would organize the fellowship program by making contract
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the international research organi-
zation selected to handle the recruitment and financial administration of
the research specialists to be appointed under the Project, as described
in paragraph 3.20 of the main report.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Directors
and Research Coordinators of National Research Centers
1.01      Directors of National Research Centers stupported under the Project
would be selected by the President of the Instituto Nacional de Investiga-
ciones Agronomicas (INIA) for their leadership qualities, administrative
experience or potential, and understanding of the special needs of research
scientists and research programs as well as for their scientific competence.
Their appointment would be subject to approval by the Bank.
1.02      The responsibilities and functions of the Directors would be to:
(a) Create at the National Research Centers under their command
a professional environment favorable to expediting the
conduct of research aimed at increasing the efficiency
of production of the commodities for which the center
is responsible;
(b) Carry full responsibility, on behalf of INIA, for the
general administration of all personnel and facilities
located at the National Research Center;
(c) Provide direction and administrative support for all
specialized national research projects for which the
center is responsible and to plan and execute all
regional research projects approved by INIA;
(d) Cooperate with the Research Coordinator of the center
in respect to the formulation, design, and implementation
of all research projects of significance, relative to the
specialized national responsibility of the center, and to
seek the approval of INIA for all such projects in
consultation with the Research Coordinator, who would also
approve all applications;
(e) Select and recommend, in accordance with INIA personnel
policies, candidates for appointment to staff for both
regional and national specialized operations, in agreement
with the Research Coordinator in respect to the latter
group; and



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(f)  Process, in accordance with INIA procedures, fellowship
awards to professional personnel recommended in agreement
with the Research Center Coordinator for such training
fellowships.
1.03      Research Center Coordinators at each National Research Center would
be appointed by INIA, after consultation with the Bank, from the cadre of
foreign research specialists to be located at each center.
1.04      Each Research Center Coordinator would have the following
responsibilities and functions with respect to the National Research Center
at which he is located:
(a)  To cooperate with the Director or his alternate
in formulating, designing, and supervising research
projects of significance relative to the national
specialty of the center and, with the Director,
to certify all applications for approval of such
projects to INIA;
(b)  To assist the Director in the selection of research
staff of the center and, with him, recommend all appoint-
ments to INTA;
(c)  To assist the Director in the selection and placement
overseas of professional personnel for post-graduate
fellowship training or study; and
(d)  To assist the Director in the selection of research
equipment to be acquired under the Project, certifying
applications to INIA for approval of all such purchases
in excess of US$500.
1.05      These terms of reference were agreed during negotiations.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Basis for Estimating Buildin_g and Equipment Costs
1.01      Preliminary cost estimates for six centers are more flexible and
reltable if based upon average facilities per professional research and
administrative staff member. The actual area for any single staff member
group would vary as some are office oriented, some field oriented, some
laboratorv oriented, some greenhouse oriented, and some shop oriented. The
total area distribution for entire staff would likelv be maintained, somewhat
as assumed in Table 1. For preliminary estimates, this table can serve as
a guide. Should professionals be added, the available space distribution
would be checked and space increased as needed.
1.02      The following summarizes the detailed figures on the basis of
kev facilities for professional staff members:
Cost Estimate Per Professional Staff
US$
Building Construction                           30,000
Building Furnishing                             15,000
Building Equipment                             15,000
Farm Development Cost                            2,750
Farm Tractors and Equipment                      2,000
Automobiles and Trucks                           3,000
Services:  Electrical, Water, Sewage, etc.   j,250
Total Per Professional                    75,000
1.03      Capital estimates for each of the six centers by category may
be estimated by multiplying the staff professionals to be added at each
center by the various cost categories. For example, in the case of the
National Research Center for Cereals and Grain Legumes, the estimate works
out as follows:



ANNEX 10
Page   2
Total Capital Cost at El Encin
(45 Professionals)
%            ITS$
Foreign      Foreign
Category                 US$            US$         Exchange      Exchange
Buildings               (30,000 x 45)    1,350,000         20          270,000
Furnishings             (15,000 x 45)       675,000        25          168,750
Research Equipment      (15,000 x 45)       675,000         75         506,250
Farm Development        ( 2,750 x 45)       123,750         -             -
Farm Equipment          ( 2,000 x 45)        90,000        50           45,000
Automobiles and Trucks ( 3,000 x 45)         135,000       50           67,500
Services and Utilities ( 7,250 x 45)        326,250        50          163,125
Total              (75,000 x 45)    3,375,000         36        1,220,625
1.04      The basis for these estimates is experience in building the
International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines; ongoing ex-
periences in building the International Institute for tropical lowland
research at Cali, Colombia; and investigations as to office, laboratory, and
auxiliary building standards and costs in Spain.
February 8, 1971



ANNEX 10
Table 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates
Breakdown of Average Area and Cost Estimate Per
Professional Research and Administrative
Staff Member and Group of Technical, Clerical,
and Other Supporting Personnel
Research
Construction      Furnishing Cost  Equipment Cost
Area       Cost
(M2) Per M2   Total    Per M2    Total   Per M2  Total
Building/
Office                35    100       3,500      50       1,750      50    1,750
Laboratory            35    125      3,750      110       3,850    100    3,500
Greenhouse and
Headhouse            50    125      6,250       40       2,000      30    1,500
Work Areas and Shops 67       60     4,000       15       1,000      30    2,000
Supply and Storage   67       60     4,000       15       1,000      15    1,000
Open Sheds            75      40     3,000       20       1,500      13    1,000
Auditorium and
Conference           20    100      2,000       50       1,000      12.50   250
Library, Printing,
and Photography      20    125      2,500      100       2,000    150    3,000
Cafeteria and
Kitchen              10    100      1,000       90         900    100    1,000
379            30,000              15,000            15,000
Farm Development    Units Per Professional
Irrigation System   2 ha    500/ha    1,000
Farm Roads         500 m    3,000/km   1,500
Fences             500 m       500/km      250
2,750
Farm Machinery       Units Per Professional
Tractors and
Equipment          4 ha   500/ha       2,000
Automobiles, Trucks,
and Buses                              3,000
Services
Electrical, Water,
Sewerage, Streets,
and such                                7,250
/1   This estimate includes 30% for circulation, walls, toilets,
machine rooms, and the like.
February 8, 1971



I



ANNEX 11
Page   1
SPAIN
ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Eccnomic Benefits and Justification
Introduction
1.01      A number of attempts have been made to evaluate the cost benefit
relationships of past research efforts on a specific crop basis. Examples are
development of hybrid corn in the U.S. and Mexico and poultry research
in the United States. In addition, attempts have been made to evaluate, on
an aggregative basis, agricultural research and extension in the U.S. and
agricultural education, research, and extension in Japan.  Professor T. W.
Schultz, in his book, Economic Growth and Agriculture, cites estimates of
rates of return to these inlavstments (Tab'e 1), which are indeed high. Similarly,
Lester Brown in his book, Seeds of Change, went on to point out that the investments
in the International Rlce Research Institute (IRRI) at Los Banos from 196Z-b8,
including operating costs, amounted to US$15 million and that, already in the
1967/68 harvest, total rice output in Asia was perhaps US$300 million higher
because of the new IRRI varieties. Other examples of high returns from
research, cited by Moseman in Building Agricultural Research Systems in the
Developing Nations, are the work of the Rubber Research Institute in Malaysia
in reducing costs and increasing yields of natural rubber; the improved
sugarcane 2878 POJ developed in Java; and the control of the screw worm in the
U.S., whicli resulted in substantial reduction of livestock losses, and the
minimizing and elimination of other animal and plant pests and diseases.
Further evidence of the role of research in the growth process is contained in
Denison's work, Why Growth Rates Differ, a study of post-war growth in nine
western countries.
1.02      The relevance of these studies on the returns from past research to
judgments on the future costs and benefits from research in Spain to be
financed by the Project must be examined with care. While these studies can
provide some insight into the ranges within which returns are likely to fall,
the very nature of the research process means that future results are uncer-
tain. To maximize returns, resources under the Project (particularly scarce
research personnel) are to be concentrated in research areas where positive
results are likely to have a substantial impact on output, growth, and/or
foreign exchange earnings or savings. In addition, by selecting six areas
for concentration, the chances of achieving some success in at least some of
the areas are improved.
1.03      As can be seen from Table 1, the rates of return for individual
successes tend to be higher than those for a broader program. On the other
hand, the chances of achieving some successes may be increased with a broader
program.  The U.S. experience suggests that underlying cost benefit ratios
for a broad program of research tends to be reasonably stable and that returns



ANiiNEX 11
Page 2
are likely to be high. For example, it was estimated that a dollar sDent on
agricultural research in the 1950-65 period generated US$10 in agricultural
output (hlolding agricultural inputs constant). These US$10 in output were
not generated immediately, but were distributed through time. Assuming that
the average time lag between research expenditure and associated output
increase was 6-1/2 years, this would imply an internal rate of return of
56% 1/.
1.04      Caution is called for in interpreting this evidence.  First, the
most successful research efforts are the easiest to measure and some bias
may result from the selection of cases. On the other hand, even negative
research results produce benefits in the form of revealing practices that
may be harmful or produce low returns. These benefits are harder to measure,
but, nonetheless, can be as significant as some of the positive research re-
sults. Secondly, none of these estimates attempts to measure a set of re-
source adjustment costs necessitated by these successes. Thus, they do not
measure the net benefits to society. Finally, the internal rate of return
is quite sensitive to differences in the time lag between research expen-
ditures and effects on output. This is dependent, not only on the level of
efficiency of the research operation itself, but also on the efficiency of
supporting services such as extension, credit, marketing, and distribution,
as well as on the level of incentives to farmers.
1.05      However, the most difficult aspect of measuring the benefits from
research stems from the fact that research is only one component among
a large number of others that influence growth. Denison, in his studies,
distinguishes 23 different growth sources, some related to the volume of
factor input and others related to output per unit of input, which depends,
essentially, on advances of knowledge (research), improvements in the
allocation of resources, and the economies of scale. Because of the inter-
actions among all of these factors in the growth process, it is not possi-
ble to measure that part of growth attributable to research with any degree
of precision. Yet it is a key component without which growth would be
confined to the level of resource use (i.e., fuller employment of production
factors and growth in the resource base).
1.06      In Spain at this time, benefits from research do not depend on
revolutionary discoveries, odds against which are likely to be high. The
payoffs in Spain depend on the successful adaptation to Spanish conditions
of discoveries that have proved highly successful in other countries with
similar conditions.  Techniques for accelerating this process by concen-
trating qualified multidisciplinary teams with sufficient resources on clear-
ly focuLsed objectives have been amply demonstrated, both by private industry
ndl by national and international centers of agricultural researclh.  By se-
IcctitLg rescarcih problems that affect a substantial segment of Spanisil pro-
ducLionI or exports, even small gains in productivity can yield substantial
beniefits to the Spanislh economy.
1/   Mission estimate.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Costs and Benefits of the Existing System
1.07      The general relationships between research expenditures and growth
resultinig from Denison's study (para 1.01) have been applied to the Spanishi
situation to test whether similar relationships can be assumed in the present
Project.  The Denison studies indicate that 10% to 30% of the increases in
national income in the cases studied can be attributed to advances in knowledge.
Taking the lower limit of 10% and applying it to recent annual Spanish growth
in gross agricultural product of about US$100 million, the benefits amount
to about US$10 million per year, of which about half can be attributed to
Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agronomicas (INIA) expenditure. This
compares with annual INIA research expenditures, averaging about US$6 million
(current expenditure plus amortization of capital costs). This means an annual
increase in output of US$0.83 per dollar invested in INIA research (internal
rate of return of 16%) as compared to the U.S. estimate of US$10 per dollar
invested (internal rate of return of 56%). Considering the state of Spanish
research and the relatively small size of the past program, this relationslhip
seems plausible and probably fixes a lower limit to the rate of return than
can be expected from the Project.
Projected Costs and Benefits
1.08      Applying the same approach used above to the aggregate output in-
cluded in the six areas of research concentration, two assumed levels of
productivity increases resulting from the Project have been tested:
(a)  that growth in gross value of agricultural output would
be increased from the current rate of 3.1% per year to
3.3% per year; and
(b)  that growth in gross value of agricultural output would
be increased to 3.5% per year in productivity.
Costs were interpreted to include increases in annual operating costs as
well as in capital costs during the five-year development period. The cost
and streams were calculated for 19 years, with a 10-year lag between costs
and benefits. Rates of return under assumption (a) are 23% and under
assumption (b) 29%.
February 8, 1971



I



ANNEX 11
Table 1
SPAIN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCI PROJECT
Estimates of Rates of Return to Investment in
Agricultural Research
Annual Rate
Type of Study                                        of Return
1.   Particular U.S. farm products
(a) Hybrid corn research, public and private, as of 1955 /1         700
(b) Hybrid sorghum research, public and private, as
of 1967 /1                                                360
(c) Poultry research, public, as of 1960, lower bounds /2           137
2.   U.S. Agriculture, 1949, 1954, and 1959
Public agricultural research and extension adjusted
for excess capacity /3                                      300
3.   Agricultural research in Mexico
(a) Wheat research, 1943 to 1963 /4                                 750
(b) Corn research, 1943 to 1963 /4                                  300
(c) Total agricultural research in Mexico, 1943 to 1963 /4          290
4.   Japanese agriculture, 1880-1938
Predominantly investment in education; for example, in
1880, education, 23.6 million yen, and agricultural
research and extension, 0.3 million yen, and in
1938, 185 and 21.5 million yen, respectively, lower
bounds /5                                                    35
/1   Zvi Griliches, Research Costs and Social Returns: Hybrid Corn and
Related Innovations, Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 66 (October,
1958), pp. 419-431.
/2   Willis Peterson, "Returns to Poultry Research in the United States"
(unpublished Ph. D. dissertation in economics, University of Chicago,
1966).
/3   Zvi Griliches, Research Expenditures, Education and the Aggregate
Agricultural Production Function, American Economic Review, Vol. 54
(December, 1964), pp. 967-963.
/4   N. Ardito-Barletta, Costs and Social Returns of Agricultural Research
in Mexico (unpublished Ph.D. dissertation in economics, University of
Chicago, 1967).
/5   Anthony M. Tang, Research and Education in Japanese Agricultural
Development, 1880-1938, The Economic Studies Quarterly, Vol. 13
(February and May, 1963), pp. 27-42 and 91-100.
Source:   Schultz, T.W.   Economic Growth and Agriculture 1968.
February 8, 1971



l



y ef >_   ~~~B A  Y    O  F      B  I S  C A  Y|
El Ferro    FRANCEJ
Riveiro P NTEVED                                                                                           \ LU GO  N  I  ANDORRA
Pontev r                                            BURG
2      O r~  ;)  DRENSE  r   -.,5        PALENCIA\   (                 " (       H U E S C A  /           . GERONA
X   t                >ZAM    (\+>VQIIQdOIId(4  ,_v/   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~                ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~S O R I A /   OS
U,j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   ; <1     }   Salamdnca     f                                  "(-r r         Volenc I c\
/F s SALAMA CAI,' X /GU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADALAJARA  C  k\'
QOB   g  ()       V!_X      V /    A        V    IL           __DS_S   \kSJ            g  syf                            l S t > CX|~~~~~~ADRI  3J 
J(                    2      CIUDAD    REAL         ; ( ALBAC ETE    R - Y
40'                                                                                                                                                    40ani'Oen  0
+~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                   L E} Dwr            LCN,
CANAR_    SAD                                   G RAT   Sod    o  AE    NMURCCAA                        I     OF    N A   RESEARCH   CENTERS
J   \STE V IeLrLiAf,r.,>            e                  I VALMERIA
)M  t  5^X MALAGA | CIUDA    REA   _AIELBACETELMEER
'\Y/CADIZ r    /-:~~~~~~~~~  MILESNT
CANARY~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CROA MSAD  U< -RGIAC IE                                  LOATO    OFNTOA RESEARCH CENTERS
o   50  00o  50 o si *                                                                                                   R MOROCCO
IB   O   I00  200  El O e.5~   14     /            5 -'                  1 1
FEBRUARY  1971      IcnRr                                          \       v                                   oIRD-3309



