Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16671
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)
JUNE 10, 1997
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar
100 BHD =US$0.68 (1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH         Bosnia and Herzegovina
DM          Deutsche Mark
FBA         Federation Banking Agency
FCA         Federation Customs Administration
FPA         Federation Privatization Agency
FTA         Federation Tax Administration
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
SDR         Special Drawing Right
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
BOSNLA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johanies Linn, ECAVP
Director:          Christine Wallich, EC2DR
Division Chief:    Michel Noel, EC2CO
Responsible Staff:  Wei Ding and Khaled Sherif, EC2CO
Randi Ryterman, PRDFP



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)
Contents
Preface ............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................                                                                 iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Statement and Evaluation  of Objectives .....................................................1I
Achievement of Objectives.2 ..................2
Major Factors Which Affected the Project ............................................................6
Project Sustainability  ............................................................6
Bank Performance ...........................................................6
Borrower Performance ............................................................7
Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................8
Future Operation ............................................................9
Key Lessons Learned ............................................................9
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table  1:   Summary  of Assessments, ...........................................................                                   10
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................................                                 12
Table 3:   Project Timetable ...........................................................                                          13
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative, Estimated, and Actual ..........                                         ....... 13
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................................... 13
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ...........................................................  13
Table 7:    Studies Included  in Project ...........................................................                              13
Table 8A: Project Cost ...........................................................                                                14
Table 8B: Project Financing ...........................................................                                           14
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................................                               14
Table  10:   Status of Legal Covenan:s .........................1.................................. i5
Table  11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................................... 15
Table  12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ...........................................................                              16
Table  13:  Bank Resources:  Mission .......................                              .................................... 16
Appendix:
Borrower's contribution to the ICR ...........................................................                                    19
This document has a restricted distributiLon and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
tWorld Bank authorization.



: t
r



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bosnia and Herzegovina
Transition Assistance Credit. The Credit (SI)R 62.4 million or US$90 million equivalent) was
presented to the Board on September 5, 1996 and became effective on September II, 1996.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996. A single tranche, released upon
effectiveness, was disbursed on September 13, 1996. Cofinancing of US$20 million for this
Credit was provided by the Government of the Netherlands.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Wei Ding and Khaled Sherif (EC2CO) of the Europe
and Central Asia Region and Ms. Randi Ryterman (PRDFP) and reviewed at the time by
Ms. Christine Wallich, Country Director (EC2DR), Mr. Michel Noel, Division Chief (EC2CO),
and Mr. Baelhadj Merghoub (EC2DR).
The preparation of this ICR is based on a mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) from
March 18 to April 9, the President's Report, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank documents.



l



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established in March 1994, following the
Washington Agreement that ended the conflict between Bosniac and Croat forces. The Dayton
Accords in December 1995 further set out an institutional framework for rebuilding the entire
country on the basis of a new state consisting of two entities, the Federation and Republika
Srpska. The pivotal task in 1996 was to create the institutional framework and stimulate
economic recovery, demonstrating the advantages of rebuilding Bosnia and Herzegovina as a
multiethnic state.
2.    This Credit was prepared and impl[ernented under very difficult circumstances. The
evolving nature of the country and government institutions created great uncertainty in the fiscal
responsibilities of different levels of government. Moreover, Bosniac, Croat, and Serb interests
continued to struggle for control over key political and economic institutions. The Credit would
test the commitment of these groups to building a multiethnic state by aiming for unification of
key economic institutions and agreement on important policy matters. The Credit was primarily
intended for the benefits of the Federation, given that Republika Srpska was subject to an
embargo for donor assistance at that time.
Project Objectives
3.    The Transition Assistance Credit (TAC) was designed to provide quick-disbursing funds
for fiscal and balance-of-payments assistance. It was targeted for supporting the establishment
of a functioning Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one of the two Entities that constitute
Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton Accords. A viable Federation is a key building block
for realizing the ethnic reintegration envisaged by Dayton. The TAC's purpose was to support
two main development objectives: (i) postwar economic reintegration and institution building by
the State and Federation governments; and (ii) economic and employment growth, by reinitiating
economic transformation interrupted by the war in the key areas of enterprise and banking
reform. Federation institutions were the primary focus of the TAC because of their importance
in creating a stable and unified state.
4.    Measurement of the performance of the TAC is based on three primary indicators,
established at the time the Credit was prepared. The first consists of reforms in the system for
managing public finances. These improvements are critical to providing an adequate revenue
base and clarifying the expenditure responsibilities of the new governmental structures. The core
reform consists of unifying the Federation Customs Administration (FCA), to facilitate the
delivery of customs revenues from their points of collection to the budget of the Federation.
Other reforms include the establishment of ithe Federation Tax Administration (FTA), progress in



iv
rationalizing intergovernmental fiscal relations, and progress in reform of pension and health
finance.
5.    The second indicator consists of improvements in the financial system.  These
improvements are critical to improving the flow of financial capital between the Bosniac- and
Croat-majority areas of the Federation. Core reforms include the unification of the Federation
payments system and the adoption of the Federation Banking Agency Law.
6.    The final indicator consists of the creation of a framework for privatizing banks and
enterprises. Privatization is needed to stimulate restructuring, encourage investment, as well as
limit the potential liability of the government for debts of nonprivate banks and enterprises. The
core reform consists of presentation to Parliament of the Privatization Agency Law. Longer-
term reforms include establishing this agency, as well as developing a complete legal framework
to transfer state and social assets to private ownership.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The TAC was successful in meeting most of its development objectives.  Core
institutional reforms were generally implemented, and overall progress in defining and
implementing a medium-term policy framework was significant. Specifically,
*  The Federation Customs Authority is now operating as a single institution under
procedures established and supervised by European Union advisors. The Federation
Tax Administration has been established, and significant progress in reform of
public finances has been achieved.
*  The Federation Banking Agency (FBA) has been established, and the Federation
payments system is moving toward unification. However, full unification of the
payments system has been blocked by an inability to merge the two central Payments
Bureaus in Sarajevo and Mostar.
*  A legal framework for privatization of banks and enterprises has been presented to
the Parliament, and the Federation Privatization Agency (FPA) has been established.
8.    In retrospect, the goals of the TAC were ambitious, given the state of development of
governmental structures. Yet, despite this fact, most aspects of the development goals were
achieved. This progress should be sustainable, as long as cooperation between the Bosniac and
Croat authorities--which has not always been present--continues.
9.    One serious problem in implementation of the Credit concerns the use of TAC proceeds
by the State and Federation governments. Based on discussions at negotiations with officials of
both the State and Federation governments, the proceeds of the Credit were envisaged to be used
to finance general fiscal expenditures, including recurrent costs related to demobilization of
soldiers, the costs of pension reform, and important international obligations such as debt service
and gas payments. Proceeds were not envisaged to be used for any expenditures outside the
budget, including on lines of credit to enterprises.  The Federation Government used
DM 33.8 million, or 47 percent of its share of TAC proceeds, to provide such credits to
enterprises, and the State Government used DM 15.3 million, or 25 percent of its share of its
proceeds, to provide credits to enterprises. In addition, the State used 13 percent of its share of



v
TAC proceeds to support municipalities and 17 percent to cancel liabilities to domestic
commercial banks, again expenditures not envisaged during loan negotiations. In aggregate,
55 percent of the expenditures were outside the budgetary framework and outside negotiated
agreements.
10.   A supervision team from the World Bank explained that these expenditures did not
constitute a correct use of Credit proceeds, and recommended that the funds be redirected back to
the budget. However, the team was informed that these funds had already been allocated to the
banks and were to be distributed to enterprises shortly. A second supervision team in March
1997 reiterated the Bank's position. Specifically, the Bank team recommended that the credits
extended under the TAC to enterprises be earmarked to a State debt-service account. However,
the authorities have yet to respond.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
l .    Given the difficult circumstances in BiH, Bank performance with respect to this Credit is
commendable. The Credit represents an effort to provide much-needed support for economic
recovery in a timely fashion. Problems in credit implementation resulted from lending to a
country in which government institutions continue to change very rapidly and where there is yet
less than full oversight and transparency in the management of public funds.
12.   In particular, the Bank team should be commended for resisting pressures to disburse the
Credit too quickly. Given the complexity of the institutional environment, it was critical that the
team took adequate time to prepare and negotiate the Credit. Thirteen months were invested in
Credit preparation.
13.   More importantly, the Credit was not disbursed until most of the core institutional
reforms required by the Credit were implemented. This conservatism allowed the Bank to
provide BiH with the proceeds of the TAC in a single tranche, while ensuring that the most
important policy conditions of the Credit were met. In addition, the Bank worked closely with
other donors to achieve project objectives.
14.   Despite these precautions, a significant portion of TAC proceeds was used to finance
unplanned expenditures. This problem could have been avoided by using one of the following
measures. First, the TAC could have been disbursed in two or more tranches, to allow better
supervision of the use of funds. Alternatively, TAC proceeds could have been earmarked for a
specific list of authorized expenditures or, if needed, held in a special account for eligible
expenditures only.
15.   This Credit receives a satisfactory rating for its ability to provide emergency fiscal relief
and stimulate key economic reforms, despite conditions of rapid change in BiH government
institutions.
16.   A public-finance reform project is currently envisioned to follow the TAC. It will assist
in establishing a wide range of government fiscal-related agencies and policies. It will also
provide direct budgetary assistance to ensure the viability of both the Federation and State fiscal
finances.






BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The purpose of this Credit was to provide quick-disbursing funds for fiscal and balance-
of-payments assistance to support two main development objectives: (i) post-war economic
reintegration and institution building by the, State and Federation governments; and (ii) economic
and employment growth, stimulated primarily by reinitiating economic transformation
interrupted by the war in the key areas of enterprise and banking reform. Federation institutions
were the primary focus of the TAC because of their importance in creating a stable and unified
state.
2.    Measurement of the performance of the TAC is based on three primary indicators,
established at the time the Credit was prepared. The first consists of reforms in the system for
managing public finances. These improvements are critical to providing an adequate revenue
base and clarifying the expenditure responsibilities of the new governmental structures. The core
reform consists of unifying the Federation Customs Administration, to facilitate the delivery of
customs revenues from their points of collection to the budget of the Federation. Other reforms
include the establishment of the Federation Tax Administration, progress in rationalizing
intergovernmental fiscal relations, and progress in reform of pension and health finance.
3.    The second indicator consists of improvements in the financial system.  These
improvements are critical to improving the flow of financial capital between the Bosniac- and
Croat-majority areas of the Federation. Core reforms include the unification of the Federation
payments system and the adoption of the Federation Banking Agency Law.
4.     The final indicator consists of the creation of a framework for privatizing banks and
enterprises. Privatization is needed to stimulate restructuring, encourage investment, as well as
limit the potential liability of the governmrent for debts of nonprivate banks and enterprises. The
core reform consists of presentation to Parliament of the Privatization Agency Law. Longer-
term reforms include establishing this agency, as well as developing a complete legal framework
to transfer state and social assets to private ownership.
5.    The set of reforms enumerated here are crucial to establishing viable governments at the
State and Federation levels and to stimulating economic recovery. In the absence of these
reforms, it is difficult to imagine the evolution of a unified and well-functioning state. For this
reason, these indicators are good measures of the ability of the TAC to meet its development
objectives.



2
Achievement of Objectives
6.    The TAC was successful in meeting most of its development objectives.  Core
institutional reforms were generally implemented, and overall progress in defining and
implementing a medium-term policy framework was significant. Problems still remain in
complete unification of the Federation payments system. In retrospect, however, the goals of the
TAC were ambitious, given the state of development of governmental structures. Yet, despite
this fact, most aspects of the development goals were achieved, as explained in the discussion
below.
7.    Reform of Public Finance. Progress in reform of public finance has been substantial.
It includes the unification of the Federation Customs Administration, the establishment of
Federation Tax Administration, progress in intergovernmental fiscal relations, and progress in
creating a framework for pension and health reform.
8.    Unification of the Federation Customs Administration. Merging the separate Bosniac
and Croat customs administrations on the territory of the Federation is essential to creating an
adequate revenue base for the Federation government. The tariff codes, the schedule of excise
duty rates for imported goods, and customs procedures were harmonized. On February 28, 1996,
the director of the FCA and his deputy were appointed. Other senior managers were appointed in
March 1996. In early April 1996, additional measures were taken toward the formation of a
unified FCA: internal borders between the Croat-majority and the Bosniac-majority areas were
eliminated and customs checks were moved to the external border of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
the operations of the two customs administrations were unified; and a team of internal observers
organized by the European Union was deployed to monitor Federation customs procedures and
operations, including the absence of internal border checks and the flow of customs revenues to
the Federation budget. Further actions were taken to transfer customs revenue collected by the
FCA to the Federation budget which involved opening Federation revenue accounts for receiving
customs revenues, followed in turn by transfer of customs revenues to these accounts. Later in
1996,, after Parliamentary approval of the Federation budget, the Federation started to use
customs revenues from the Federation revenue account to finance Federation wide expenditures.
9.    The Federation Customs Administration is now operating as a single institution under
the procedures established and supervised by the European Union advisors. There has been
considerable improvement in the collection of customs tax revenues in 1996 and customs tax
revenues are now flowing into the Federation government accounts. During 1996, the Federation
collected DM 318 million in customs revenues, or about 10 percent of Federation GDP.
10.   Establishment of the Federation Tax Administration. In early April 1996, the director of
the Federation Tax Administration and his deputy were appointed. The Federation Tax
Administration Law became effective in early October 1996, and the FTA is in the process of
establishing its headquarters in Sarajevo. It is also preparing a plan for structuring Federation
wide tax administration.
II.   Progress in Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. Progress in intergovernmental fiscal
relations has been notable. The government designed a law on the public-finance framework
consistent with the new Constitution, which provided the basis for the preparation of 1997
budgets at the central and local levels. Budgets for 1997 were prepared at most levels of
government in the Federation, limiting significantly direct budgetary support to public



3
enterprises. Most cantonal budgets and the Federation budget have been adopted by the
corresponding cabinets. The Federation budget has not been adopted by Parliament.
12.   Federation responsibilities in 1997 are more consistent with those laid out in the new
Constitution, with the 1997 budget assigning the Federation limited service delivery. Federation
expenditures are expected to be heavily concentrated in defense and social programs for war
invalids and families of killed soldiers, with expenditures in each area being considerably higher
than last year. Revenues to support expenditures for defense and social affairs are expected to be
distributed between the Croat and Bosniac areas, given each area maintains its own army and
wishes to control compensation to war veterans and their families.
13.    Service responsibility will be concentrated at the canton level. Some formerly
centralized functions are being passed down to cantons (e.g., health, police, education, and
justice), and some municipal-level functions (e.g., elementary education and cultural activities)
are being passed up to cantons. Municipalities will continue to be responsible for most utility
services. The result is considerable transition in service delivery, and the need to identify
effective ways to reduce or reallocate staff at the Federation, cantonal, and municipal levels.
14.   Understanding of the expenditure responsibilities of different levels of government
continues to be unclear. For example, military spending is assigned to the Federation, but some
cantons, such as Tuzla-Podrinja and Zenica-Doboj, spend 10 percent or more of their budgets on
defense, and municipalities are devoting significant portions of their budgets to defense as well.
Social welfare is an example where a framework for joint responsibility has been established;
generally, the Federation is responsible for policy and the subnational governments are
responsible for implementation. However, expenditures on social welfare are being made by all
three levels of government.
15.   Development of tax laws and administrative structures must continue to ensure that
revenues are effectively collected and the revenues are distributed in ways that provide
acceptable finance for each government and limit the potential for tax avoidance. The
Federation has already established sales and excise tax laws and is working on profits and
individual income tax laws. Currently, a payroll tax law is being drafted that would unify rates
across regions. However, officials in several cantons have observed problems with these and
other laws, and conceivably could seek to administer separate canton taxes. For example, canton
officials in West Herzegovina believe that allowing firms a seven-day waiting period for paying
taxes on imports not only leads to evasion of customs and excise tax laws, but also of sales taxes.
Canton officials in Sarajevo point to problems with the sales and profits tax laws. Even if
problems exist in the laws, allowing each canton to independently fix these problems precludes
the advantages of Federation-designed bases. The Law on the Allocation of Public Revenue
stipulates that the sales, income, and profilts tax bases are to be set by the Federation, and this law
could override a canton's desire to fix any problems. On the other hand, the Constitution appears
to allow cantons the authority to set their own tax bases.
16.   Progress in Reform of Pension anld Health Finance. Basic frameworks for reforms of
pension and health finance have been developed. The draft Law on Pension and Disability
Insurance is the first step in the process of harmonizing pension provision in the Federation.
However, it does not achieve the twin objjectives of fiscal sustainability and improved targeting
of cash benefits.



4
17.   Currently, the pension fund based in Sarajevo applies a prewar benefit formula that
results in the accumulation of arrears to current pensioners. These arrears are projected to reach
DM 400 million by the end of 1997. The continued accumulation of pension obligations
threatens the credibility of the pension system as it is highly unlikely that they will ever be paid
and, more importantly, undermines fiscal-sector sustainability in the Federation. In addition,
more than 10 percent of the population depends on old age, invalidity or survivor benefits for
their consumption needs. The high levels of poverty today make it urgent that scarce resources
are targeted to the most vulnerable segments of the population. In the pension system, this can
be done by raising the minimum pension to levels which provide a subsistence income for
pensioners. In the current context, this can only be achieved by changing the benefit formula.
18.   Each canton is expected to be responsible for financing of health care without funding
from the Federation. The draft law on health insurance specifies that each canton will have a
health insurance fund with compulsory contributions of 19.5 percent of net salary (14.5 percent
from employers and five percent from employees), to finance a basic health package. The
package has not yet been determined. User charges or copayments will be required for most
services, with the level of these charges specified by cantons who administer the system.
19.   In addition, a law on payroll contributions has been drafted, which would lower the total
rate from about 100 percent of net wages to about 85 percent, including a substantial reduction of
the contribution earmarked to the health fund which would be compensated by user fees.
20.   Reform of the Financial System. Progress in reform of the financial system is critical
to improving the flow of financial capital within the Federation, particularly between Bosniac-
and Croat-majority areas. Two reforms are crucial to the development of a sound financial
system: adoption of the Federation Banking Agency Law and unification of the Federation
payments system. The Federation Banking Agency Law was adopted; however, the Federation
payments system is still not fully unified, as explained below.
21.   Adoption of the Federation Banking Agency Law. The development of a sound financial
system requires a unified and uniform legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for bank
licensing, regulation, and supervision throughout the Federation. During the war, parallel
banking systems and regulatory and supervision frameworks were developed in the Croat-
majority and in the Bosniac-majority areas of the Federation. Licenses for banks in the Croat-
majority area of the Federation were revoked during the war.
22.   The Federation Banking Agency Law was adopted in early June 1996. The Board of
Directors for the Agency and the managing director and deputy director were appointed at the
end of July. The Agency was established in September. The Agency issued temporary licenses
to all the banks in the Federation, a major step toward eliminating the regulatory vacuum that
had existed previously in some parts of the Federation. The Agency plans to undertake a
comprehensive review of all the banks that exist in the Federation in the next six months, issue
permanent licenses to qualified ones by end- 1997, and introduce new prudential regulations after
the enactment of both the Central Bank and Banking Laws. The Agency is also expected to play
a significant role in bank restructuring and privatization.
23.   Unification of the Federation Payments System. There were no linkages between the
banking and payments systems in the Bosniac and Croat areas of the Federation at the end of
1995. Following the Dayton-Paris Peace Accords, initial linkages were established, making it



5
possible to effect transactions in Deutsche Marks directly between the two areas. However, the
payments system was not fully unified and the linkage that existed required an inefficient weekly
bilateral physical settlement and clearance,, implemented by physically shipping an amount of
currency for weekly settlement of the transactions balance.
24.    Under the TAC, significant progress has been achieved in unifying the payments system.
First, a Federation Payments Bureau was established and agreement on full unification of the
system  was reached.  The agreement covers all three currently circulating currencies
(Kuna, Deutsche Mark, and Dinar) in the unified payment system. Three conditions are
necessary for the actual unification of the payments system: (i) having a unified cash delivery
system; (ii) closing redundant branches (particularly in the mixed cantons); and (iii) harmonizing
methods and practices. Conditions (i) and (iii) have been mostly fulfilled, while difficulties
remain in terms of condition (ii) above. The difficulties that the authorities face in tackling the
problem of parallel central bureaus in th,e two mixed cantons still presents an obstacle to
complete integration.
25.    Condition (i) is the most important condition. The system now operates more effectively
under the newly established principle of supplying cash to branches in accordance with liquidity
needs rather than through the weekly bilateral settlement and clearance of the transaction
balances between the Bosniac- and Croat-majority areas. A caveat: since the Mostar branch
issue has not been solved yet, Croat cantons are still effecting their transactions with Sarajevo
and other Bosniac-cantons through the West Mostar branch (and the same applies to Bosniac-
cantons which use Sarajevo for transactions with Croat cantons).
26.   Progress toward condition (iii) has been significant. Achievements include preparation
of guidelines for the operation of the reintegrated systems; unification of the accounts across the
bureaus, unification and improvement of the software system; and development of a plan for
reorganization of the system.
27.   Creation of a Legal Framework, for Privatization. The Federation government is
currently preparing a privatization program that will transform ownership of State- and socially-
owned enterprises. Enterprise privatization would be implemented mostly at the canton level
through canton privatization agencies.
28.   The conceptual framework for privatization in the Federation has been developed by the
government-appointed privatization expert team. Six key laws were presented to Parliament for
enactment: (i) the Privatization Agency Law; (ii) Law on Privatization of Enterprises; (iii) Law
on Restitution; (iv) Law on Sale of Apartments with Tenant's Right of Tenure; (v) Law on
Opening Balance Sheets; and (vi) Law on Bank Privatization. Among these laws, the
Privatization Agency Law has already been adopted and laws (ii) and (iv) have already had their
first and second readings completed in Parliament.
29.   The Federation Privatization Agency Law became effective in late-October 1996. The
establishment of the Agency is now moving forward; its director has been appointed. Once fully
established, the Federation Privatization Agency will prepare the guidelines for the cantonal
privatization agencies that will be established to handle privatization transactions within their
respective areas. The FPA will be directly involved with more complex privatizations involving
companies operating across cantons, including utilities, transport, and telecommunications.



6
Nevertheless, the vast majority of privatizations are expected to be small enough to be transacted
quickly and at the canton level.
Major Factors Which Affected the Project
30.   Two key factors affected this Credit. First, the political and economic institutions of the
State and Federation were in the midst of development. Government structures were forming,
and many staff were only recently appointed. Overlap between State and Federation functions
was considerable, and the State was constantly overstepping its boundaries. The budgets of these
governments were not fully formed at the time the Credit was prepared.
31.   Second, Bosniac, Croat, and Serb interests continued to struggle for control over key
political and economic institutions. Mistrust among these groups was and continues to be severe,
leading to resistance to economic integration. The commitment of these ethnic groups to
particular and often incompatible policies was underestimated at the time the Credit was
prepared.
32.   These conditions led to two problems in the implementation of this Credit. First, the
complexity of institutional change created an 'information vacuum', in which collection of
information about both intended and actual expenditures by the State and Federation
governments was difficult. As a consequence, both of these governments were able to use TAC
proceeds to fund expenditures that were not discussed during Credit negotiations. In fact, the
State disbursed funds for programs that were not its official responsibility. Second, the State
appeared to allocate a disproportionate share of its TAC proceeds to Bosniac interests. Both of
these problems are discussed more fully in 'Borrower Performance'.
Project Sustainability
33.   In general, progress achieved under TAC is sustainable, unless cooperation between the
Bosniac and Croat authorities breaks down. A breakdown in relations risks the adoption and,
certainly, the implementation of many of the key laws that were developed as conditions for this
Credit, and could cause newly formed and newly unified institutions to collapse. Cooperation
between the Bosniacs and Croats is fragile, depending on continued donor support and SFOR
presence.
Bank Performance
34.   Given the difficult circumstances in BiH, Bank perfornance is commendable. The
Credit represents an effort to provide much-needed support for economic recovery in a timely
fashion. Problems in use of Credit proceeds resulted from lending to a country in which
government institutions are changing very rapidly and where there is as yet less than full
oversight and transparency in the management of public funds.
35.   In particular, the Bank team should be commended for resisting pressures to disburse the
loan too quickly. Given the complexity of the institutional environment, it was critical that the
team took adequate time to prepare and negotiate the Credit. Thirteen months were invested in
Credit preparation.



7
36.    More importantly, the Credit was not approved until most of the core institutional
reforms required by the Credit were implemented. This conservatism allowed the Bank to
provide BiH with the proceeds of the TAC in a single tranche, while ensuring that the most
important policy conditions of the Credit were met. In addition, the Bank worked closely with
other donors to achieve project objectives.
37.    Despite these precautions, the Credit presented some problems during implementation.
These problems are discussed in the next section.
Borrower Performance
38.    The ability of officials of the State and Federation governments to effect core
institutional reforms within a very short period is commendable. However, three aspects of the
administration and allocation of funds from the Credit raise concerns. First, reports on the
execution of the 1996 State and Federation budgets did not include the project funds. Second,
debt-service arrangements for the State's part of the TAC funds still need to be clarified.
39.    Finally, the State and Federation governments both used TAC proceeds for expenditures
not envisaged during Credit negotiations. Based on discussions with officials of both the State
and Federation governments, the proceeds of the Credit were envisaged to be used to support
general fiscal expenditures, including recurrent costs related to' demobilization of soldiers, the
costs of pension reform, and important international obligations, such as debt service and gas
payments. Proceeds were not envisaged to be used for expenditures outside the budget, such as
on lines of credit for enterprises. The Federation Government used DM 33.7 million, or
47 percent of its share of TAC proceeds, to provide credits to enterprises, and the State
Government used DM 15.3 million, or 25 lpercent of its share of the proceeds to provide credits
to enterprises. In addition, the State used 13 percent of its share of TAC proceeds to support
municipalities and 17 percent to cancel liabilities to domestic commercial banks, again
expenditures not envisaged during Credit negotiations. Neither expenditures on enterprises nor
on municipal'ities are official responsibilities of the State.  In aggregate, 55 percent of
expenditures were outside the budgetary framework and outside negotiated agreements.
40.    A supervision team from the World Bank explained that these expenditures' did not
constitute a correct use of Credit proceeds, and recommended that the funds be redirected back to
the budget.' However, the team was inforned that these funds had already been allocated to the
banks and were to be distributed to enterprises shortly.  A second 'supervision team  in
March 1977 reiterated the Bank's position.2 Specifically, the Bank team recommended that the
credits extended under the TAC to enterprises be earmarked to a State debt-service account.
However, the authorities have yet to respond.
41.    The unplanned expenditures deserve special scrutiny. For example, the State exceeded
its authority by directly providing DM 800,000 to one municipality that was explicitly banned
from receiving donor support by the Office of the High Representative. After being informed by
the Bank that this expenditure was not eligible, the State authorities took a decision to return the
funds to the State budget. The lines of credit also represent a special concern, given that they
amount to approximately 10 to 15 percent of the flow of domestic bank credit to enterprises in
See letter to His Excellency Hasan Muratovic, dated December 20, 1996.
2 See letter to His Excellency Hasan Muratovic, dated April 28, 1997.



8
1996.3 Investigation into the methods used to allocate these funds to enterprises suggests that the
Credit terms and underwriting procedures of the Federation were superior to those of the State.
42.    The Federation and State governments provided TAC proceeds to enterprises at interest
rates above the rate on the TAC; hence, these loans contain no explicit subsidies. However, the
loans were provided to firms at below-market rates of interest, and, thus, contain implicit
subsidies. Generally, loans provided by the Federation were offered for a term of three years, at
7.5 percent per annum.4 Loans provided by the State were offered for a term of five years, at
3 percent per annum. Typically, loans of these terms are not available in BiH, other than from
donor-financed credits.
43.    The Federation selected borrowers based on generally commercial criteria, using
procedures established by the Emergency Recovery Project, a DM 31.7 million line of credit to
enterprises, financed by the World Bank. Loan applications were solicited from enterprises by a
Federation credit committee, which included both Bosniac and Croatian officials. Then, based
on the geographic distribution of the applications, the credit committee selected banks and the
amount of loan proceeds to be distributed through each bank. Banks with both Bosniac and
Croatian affiliation and banks with no particular affiliation were included in the program. These
banks were given 10 days to evaluate the loan applications and inform the Federation credit
committee which of the applications they would accept. The banks retained the risk of default.
44.    In contrast, methods used by the State to select borrowers are unclear. Unlike loans
awarded by the Federation, loans awarded by the State were not dispensed through commercial
banks nor were they reviewed by an established credit committee. Firms were selected by
officials of the Ministry of Finance at the State level, using a process that is not transparent. The
lack of an agreed repayment structure and implementing agency5 also means that the loans run a
considerable risk of being perceived as a grant by the recipients and therefore having much
higher likelihood of nonpayment.
Assessment of Outcome
45.    Core institutional reforms were generally implemented, and overall progress in defining
and implementing a medium-terrn policy framework was significant. Problems still remain will
complete unification of the Federation payments system.
46.    The use of TAC proceeds for unplanned purposes is clearly troublesome. However, the
supervision team identified this problem quickly, and the Bank is working to find a satisfactory
remedy.
3Long-term credit is generally not available to firms in BiH at present. Most of the existing stock of long-
termn credit predates the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia. Hence, the stock of short-term credit is used
as the estimate of the flow of financial capital during the year. The total stock of short-term bank credit in
Bosnia and Herzegovina in October 1996 was 436.6 million, with 82 percent distributed by banks in the
Federation.
This interest rate is comparable to those on loans offered by the Emergency Recovery Project, a DM 31.7
million line of credit for nonprivate enterprises, financed by the World Bank, and the Bosnian
Reconstruction Finance Facility, a DM 38.9 million line of credit financed by USAID.
5The State level Ministry of Finance was disbanded as of January 1, 1997.



9
47.   In retrospect, the goals of the TAC were ambitious, given the state of development of
governmental structures. Yet, despite this fact, most aspects of the development goals were
achieved. For this reason, this Credit receives a satisfactory rating.
Future Operation
48.    A public-finance reform project is currently being envisioned to follow-up the TAC. It
will assist in establishing a wide range of government fiscal-related agencies and policies. It will
also provide direct budgetary assistance to ensure the viability of both the Federation and State
fiscal finances.
Key Lessons Learned
49.    Clearly, the key problem that arose in implementation is the use of TAC proceeds for
unplanned expenditures. This problem could have been avoided by use of one of the following
measures. First, the TAC could have been disbursed in two or more tranches, to allow better
supervision of the use of funds. Alternatively, TAC proceeds could have been earmarked for a
specific list of planned expenditures or, if needed, held in a special account for eligible
expenditures only.



i
l
\
\



11
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessment
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial       Partial       N1eglizibk        Not Qalicable
Macro Policies                                                         a
Sector Policies                     [                o                El
Financial Objectives                                                                    E] i  E 
Institutional Development            0                                i:                II
Physical Objectives                 Cl               E                El
Poverty Reduction                   E                E                E                 E
Gender Issues                       E                E                E                  0
Other Social Objectives               l              El                 l                0
Environmental Objectives            [J               E                E l
Public Sector Management             O               S                E                 E
Private Sector Development           i  El
Other (specify)                                      E                                  El
(Continued)



12
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Perforance                  satisfacto                Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (1)
Identification                      El                       I 
Preparation Assistance                                        ]                         Q
Appraisal
Supervision                         I                                                   U
Highly
D. Borrower Perfornance             satisfactorv              Satisfactory               Deficient
(if)                    (V)                        (if)
Preparation                         El                         ] 
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                 U                                                  El
Operation (if applicable)                                                              E iii
Highl Hyghly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfacqtrv    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
U/              (/)              U/                 /



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
1. Statement of Bank loans
(as of April 30. 1997)                                          Loans (US$ million)
Loan Number   Fiscal Year                   Project                Disbursed    Undisbursed
IBRD
4038-BOS       1996          Consolidation Loan A                    28.6           0
4039-BOS       1996          Consolidation Loan B                    284.9          0
4040-BOS       1996          Consolidation Loan C                    307.1          0
Total   .620.6 
TFBH
TF-024030      1996          Emergency Recovery Credit                45            6
TF-024031      1996          Emergency Farm Reconstruction             20          1.1
TF-024032      1996          Emergency Water Supply                    20          4.16
TF-024033      1996          Emergency Transport                       35           12
TF-024034      1996          Emergency District Heating                20          8.6
TF-024035      1996          Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5          1.5
TF-024040      1996          Emergency Education Reconstruction         5           0
Total    150        33224
IDA
2897-BOS       1996          Emergency Education Reconstruction         5          0.4
2896-BOS       1996          Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5           5
2902-BOS       1996          Emergency Housing Repair                  15          4.6
2903-BOS       1997          Emergency Power Reconstruction           35.6         24.5
2904-BOS       1997          Emergency Public Works and
Employment                               10          4.7
2905-BOS       1997          Emergency Landmines Clearance             7.5         6.7
2906-BOS       1997          Emergency Demobilization and              7.5         5.6
Reintegration
2914-BOS       1997          Transition Assistance Credit              90           0
NOO1-BOS      1997          Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee     10           10
N002-BOS       1997          Emergency Microenterprise/Local
Initiatives                               7          5.21
N003-BOS       1997          Essential Hospital Services               15           15
Total   207.        81.74
2. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of December 31, 1996)
IFC
Fiscal Year    Obligor       Type of Business                        Loan    Equity  Total
1977           Tvornica       Timber, Pulp and Paper                 4.28       0      4.28
Kartona I
1985           Sour
Energoinves   Industrial Equipment & Machinery        15.2              15.2
Total Gross Commitments                 14.08            14.08



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned              Date ActuaU
Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation                        Feb./Mar. 1996         Feb./Mar. 1996
Appraisal                                         May 1996               May 1996
Negotiations                                      May 15,1996            May 15, 1996
Letter of Development Policy                      Mayl5, 1996            May 15, 1996
Board Presentation                                September 5, 1996      September 5, 1996
Effectiveness                                     September 11, 1996     September 11, 1996
Project Completion                                September 11, 1996     September 11, 1996
Loan Closing                                      December 31, 1996      December 31, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Not applicable - The credit consisted a one tranch disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not applicable



15
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(USS Thousand)                   (US$ Thousand)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1. Long term experts                             52.1       52.1                   62.0      62.0
2. Short term consultants                        50.0       50.0                   56.6      56.6
3. Travel                                       240.5      240.5                  232.0     232.0
Total                                           342.6      342.6                  350.6     350.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ Thousand)                   (US$ Thousand)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1. IDA                                          334.3      334.3                  251.7     251.7
2. Trust Fund                                     8.3        8.3                   98.9      98.9
Total                                           342.6      342.6                  350.6     350.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Transition Assistance Credit
Covenant       Present   Fulfillment           Description of Covenant                       Comments
Section        Type          Status       Date
Article I   Implementation   complied   6/30/97      "(c) Not later that six month after the closing  Continued exchange on the progress of
1.01 (f)                   with                      date or such later date as may be agreed for the program  has been carried out
this purpose between the Borrower and the during the preparation of the Country
Association, the borrower shall prepare and  Economic Memorandum  (Red Cover
furmish to the Association a report, of such circulated in April 15)
scope and in such a detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development  Credit  Agreement,  the
performance by the borrower and . the
association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the credit
Article 1ll  Implementation   Complied   6/30(97     (a) The borrower and the Association shall See covenant No. I
3.02                        with                     from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the program.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall fumish to the Association for
its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the
program in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable



:17
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
(including ravel)
Stage of project cycle      US$ thousand
Preparation to appraisal          196.8
Appraisal                           4
Negotiations through               46.6
Board approval
Supervision                        49.9
Completion                           1.3
Total                     298.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance Ratine          so
~I~m~LRa1l1I~      ypes of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.   3Pble3
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal        Various      2       13      E, P
dates
Appraisal through Board   Various     I 1    171      E, L, P
approval                 dates
First supervision        Dec 1996    2       21       E                   I
Second supervision       Mar 1997    2       20       E                   I
Total                         17     225                          2
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E = Economist                      I = Satisfactory                   F = Financial
P = Pensions specialist            2 = Not Satisfactory               T = Technical
L = Lawyer                                                            M = Managerial
P = Policy



;: : z



19
APPENDIX: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION






21
Appendix
page 1 of 3
With reference to the TAC Implementation Completion Report it could be noted that the
Report was more realistically done and it looks pretty satisfactory.
1. Since primary objectives of this project were to assist establishing of the Federation
of BiH, setting up institutions and economic growth as well as increasing of employment -
through transformation and reforms of compainies and banks - I am assessing that TAC has been
successful in accomplishing most of its goals:
a) In general, the main institution,al reforms have been implemented (the Federal
Customs Administration is operating as unique institution; the Federal Tax Administration has
been established and significant progress in reform of system of public finances has been made.
Significant progress has also been accomplished in creating a framework for reforms of pensions'
system and of social protection.
b) There were certain problems in unification of payments system, however, we are
working out to resolve them.
2. The Government of the Federation BiH has not used TAC funds for any kind of Off-
Budget expenditures therefore it has not violated previous agreements because rehabilitation of a
system goes under Budget expenditures as stated also by the Dayton Constitution. Social needs
and needs of demobilized (soldiers) had been financed out in a smaller degree.
3. The statement that credit line had been carried out in accordance with decisions of the
Credit Board is correct. Our further intention is to use the funds received from repayments
possibly as deposit in the Federal Financial Corporation.
4. My assessment is that TAC - as support to the Budget - has proved as very efficient
and in 1997 I am expecting you will provide ifunds not only through a long-term agreements but
as a direct support to the budget.
Drago Bilandzija
Depuly Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
on belhalf of the Federation Government
Bosnia and Herzegovina



22
Appendix
page 2 of 3
TAC proceeds in the amount of 30 mission USD were placed at disposal of the Budget of the
State of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim to support:
*   post-war economic reintegration and building of institutions of the State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina to support transition towards market economy,
*   growth of economic activity through economic transformation and development of social
and pension funds,
*   bridging of budgetary deficits in order to ensure regular servicing of the foreign debt of
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Implementation experiences and results of the use of TAC proceeds were, in our view,
completely fulfilled and had exceptionally positive effects on the overall process of
reconstruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina and implementation of the Dayton Agreement. TAC
proceeds incited positive reform processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the same time they
served to prevent tendencies that lead towards economic catastrophe, social unrest and ever
deepening impoverishment of the population of the country. The modes of use of the proceeds
were defined by the Credit Agreement which required the use of funds to be compatible with the
implementation of the Dayton Agreement. In the course of implementation, minor modifications
of original projections had to be made, as the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time
was considerably different from the period when this credit had been prepared. In essence,
however, TAC resulted in important progress in a number of fields:
*   TAC proceeds were used to meet old obligations and to secure deliveries of gas for the City
of Sarajevo for heating purposes in the winter period.
*   Without these funds, the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina could not satisfy due
obligations. Owing to TAC, BiH was able to service regularly the payment of interest on its
old debts to the World Bank.
*   TAC was also applied as assistance to economically viable companies which provided tens
of thousands of jobs, as well as for aid to municipalities which were in most vulnerable
situation. Deficits in budgets of these municipalities, which were caused by inflow of a
large number of displaced persons and extremely low level of economic activity, could not
have been resolved in any other way, as the budgets of the Federation and cantons were not
organizationally consolidated.
*   TAC proceeds brought manifold benefits, as creation of jobs allowed for inflows to the
budgets, which directly resulted in improvement in the standard of living of pensioners,
disabled war veterans and other socially vulnerable categories (as an illustration, average
pension in the Federation amounted to 7 DEM in April 1997, while in April 1997 it was
100 DEM)
It must be noted that the Sarajevo "Toplane" Public Company, as well as companies and
municipalities, received funds from TAC proceeds in the form of loans and that these loans will
be repaid to the Foreign Debt Service Account of Bosnia and Herzegovina within a specified
period.



23
Appendix
page 3 of 3
From all of the above follows that the use of TAC proceeds achieved remarkable results
and provided important stimulus to beneficial processes. Without such assistance to the Budget
of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996, economic and social conditions in the country, and
particularly in Sarajevo, would have been far rnore difficult.
Hasan Muratovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
on behalf of the State Government
Bosnia and Herzegovina









IMAGING
Report No.:        16871
Type:     ICR



