Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-691 1-BIH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 62.4 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
August 14, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 14, 1996)
Unit of currency: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BHD)
100 BHD = US$0.68
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
BHD    Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinars
CIFR   Commission on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
CPA    Canton Privatization Agency
ERP    Economic Recovery Project
EU      European Union
FBA    Federal Banking Agency
FCA    Federal Customs Administration
FPB    Federal Payments Bureau
FTA    Federal Tax Administration
FX      Foreign Currency Deposits
ICOM   International Observers
IDA    International Development Association
IFI     International Financial Institution
IM     Initiating Memorandum
IMF    International Monetary Fund
MoH    Ministry of Health of the Federation
NBBH National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina
NBY    National Bank of Yugoslavia
SDR    Special Drawing Right
TAC    Transition Assistance Credit
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 3 1



i                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Credit and Operation Summary
Borrower:            Bosnia and Herzegovina
Amount:              SDR 62.4 million (US$90 million equivalent)
Terms:               35 years, including a 10-year grace period
Description:         The primary objective of the proposed Credit is to support the establishment of
an effectively functioning Federation, a key building block for the development
of the new State under the peace process for Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH).
This will be achieved through: (i) support for reintegration and rebuilding of
government institutions and the public finance structure, (ii) stimulating growth
and employment creation by improving the legal and regulatory framework for
private sector development, and initiating privatization of enterprises and banks.
Benefits:            The proposed Credit will support measures that are crucial for the development of
a new government structure on the State and Federation levels, reintegration of the
economic system, reorganization of public finance, employment creation and
economic growth. If successful, these measures will help BH to achieve tangible
results following the Peace Accords and facilitate sustainable economic growth
and political stability. The benefits of a unified institutional framework for the
Federation  will strengthen  economic  management.   Establishing  viable
institutional arrangement for the Federation as a functioning Entity is a key
building block of the new State. Without a functioning Federation, there simply
will be no realization of the State of BH as envisaged and agreed by all parties.
Within the Federation, reorganization and reintegration of the public finance
system will help finance expenditures that benefit all people in the Federation, and
the reintegration of payments and customs system will facilitate trade, production
and economic activities in general. Private sector development and initiation of
privatization will lead to improved environment for economic activity and
economic performance to revitalize production and revive trade and investment.
The program will help establish a market-based legal and regulatory framework for
banking, promote the entry and growth of private banks, and encourage the
reorganization of socially-owned banks. By pursuing rigorous reform in the public
sector and promoting private sector development, TAC will also contribute to
employment creation and thereby to reducing poverty.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Risks:              There will also be large risks in the process. The process of reintegration will not
be easy. There will be ups and downs in the difficult process of peace and
reintegration. Difficulties in demobilization, Federation building, establishment of
key institutions, reconstruction program, employment generation, and the very
process of peace itself, will present a tremendous challenge to Bosnia and the
outside world alike. The situation is fragile. Therefore, TAC represents a high
degree of risk for the Bank. Federation-building efforts could fail to truly take
hold, and the full and effective reintegration of the two Entities as envisaged under
the Dayton-Paris Accords, following the elections may also remain incomplete.
But there is no alternative. The Dayton-Paris framework is the one to which both
Entities and all parties have agreed, and which the international community is
pledged to support. A strong Bank presence in BH in the policy arena, and the
Bank's central role--together with EC--in the aid coordination process can,
however, facilitate the peace process by enhancing the confidence of the
population in post-war reconstruction.
There will also be risk of policy slippage as BH is facing a daunting dual challenge
of reconstruction and transition to a market economy. Meeting this challenge will
require an exceptional effort on the part of the Govemment. In this environment,
policy slippage, including delays in establishing key government institutions, could
delay economic recovery and lead to shortfalls in external financing, all of which
could have a severe adverse impact on the peace process and the country's access
to donor resources. The Bank will seek to mitigate the risk of policy slippage by
maintaining (and intensifying when necessary) a close dialogue under TAC with
key decision makers and providing a full range of non-lending services, including
policy advice, economic and sector work, and technical assistance.
Poverty Category:   Not Applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proceeds of the proposed Transition Assistance Credit, SDR 62.4 million
(US$90 million), will be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness, which is
expected in September 1996.
Map:                No. IBRD 27708-R
Project ID Number:  BA-PA-44033
Vice President:          Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:                Jean-Michel Severino, EC2
Acting Director for Bosnia:  Christine Wallich, EC2
Division Chief:          Michel Noel, EC2CO
Task Manager:            Wei Ding, EC2CO



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Contents
I.       INTRODUCTION ..................................................................I
A.      Background .................................................................I
B.      Rebuilding Bosnia and Herzegovina: Three Tasks .................................................................. I
C.      Immediate Priority Focus ..................................................................2
D.      Bank Assistance Strategy and Program  to be Supported by TAC  ......................                     ........................2
11.   ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FINANCING  REQUIREMENTS .............................................                                            3
A.      The Macroeconomic Policy Framework ..................................................................3
B.      Macroeconomic Prospects .................................................................3
C.      External Financing Requirements ..................................................................4
III. INSTITUTION-BUILDING AND ECONOMIC REINTEGRATION                                                                     . . 5
A.       Creating Unified Federation Institutions ..................................................................5
B.       Reintegration and Reform  of Public Finance ..................................................................7
IV. STIMULATING GROWTH THROUGH RELAUNCHING MARKET REFORMS  ... 12
A.       Reform  of the Enterprise Sector ................................................................. 12
B.       Reform  of the Banking Sector .................................................................                         14
V.       THE  PROPOSED  CREDIT .................................................................                                          15
A.       Credit Amount and Borrower ................................................                                             15
B.       Credit Design ................................................ 15
C.       Administrative Arrangements and Use of the Proceeds of the Credit ............................ ......... 16
D.       Disbursements ................................................ 16
E.       Monitoring Arrangements ................................................                                                16
F.       Environmental Assessment Requirements ................................................                                  16
G.       Benefits and Risks .................................................                                                    16
VI. RECOMMENDATION ................. 17
ANNEX I                 Macroeconomic Outlook and Financing Requirements
ANNEX 1I               Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX m                Policy Matrix






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 62.4 MILLION
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
I.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) in the amount equivalent to SDR 62.4 million (US$90 million) to help
finance a Transition Assistance Operation. The proposed Credit would be on International Development
Association (IDA) terms, with 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period. Cofinancing in an
amount of US$20 million equivalent is secured from the Government of Netherlands.
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
2.    Following her declaration of independence from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY) in March 1992, BH suffered from a brutal war which lasted until October 1995, when the Dayton
Peace Agreements were initialed, leading to an immediate cease-fire. In December 1995, the parties signed
the comprehensive Peace Accords in Paris, including a new Constitution designed to initiate the
reintegration of the country. Since then, a series of additional agreements have been signed to move the
unification process forward.
3.    The Dayton-Paris Peace Accords set out an institutional framework for rebuilding the country.
Under the Accords, BH will remain a single State, within internationally recognized borders, consisting of
two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska (RS). The State
Government will have responsibilities in foreign affairs, customs policy and foreign trade policy, monetary
management, and inter-entity matters on communications, transport and energy.  Each of the two
constituent Entities will have responsibility for defense, fiscal management, agricultural and industrial
policies, internal affairs and social welfare, and the judicial system. The Federation will be constituted on
the basis of cantons and municipalities which will have major responsibilities in social services and social
welfare. The blueprint laid out in the Accords implies substantial changes to the legislative and policy-
making institutions in BH.
B. Rebuilding Bosnia and Herzegovina: Three Tasks
4.    The signing of the Dayton-Paris Peace Accords have placed economic recovery at center stage. In
this endeavor, BH faces three major tasks. First, there is the huge requirement of reconstruction and
recovery from the damage caused by the war. Bridges, roads, housing, water, and sewerage facilities need
to be repaired and public services restored. Refugees need to be resettled, and soldiers need to be
demobilized. Second, there is the urgent need to build a new governance structure for the country. The
blueprint laid out in the Peace Accords needs to be further elaborated and implemented, and institutions
have to be reintegrated, restructured, or created for all levels of government. In this undertaking, the most
important and critical task in the short term is to first establish viable institutional arrangements for the
Federation as a functioning Entity and as a key building block for the new State. Without a functioning
Federation, there will simply be no realization of the State of BH as envisaged and agreed to by all parties to



2
the Peace Accords. Third, to revive economic growth and generate employment for hundreds of thousands
of returning refugees and soldiers, the reconstruction program will have to be complemented by the
undertaking of urgent structural reforms to improve the environment for private sector initiatives. The
creation of jobs and the increase in production is most likely to come from the free initiatives of private
entrepreneurs in a reformed and market-friendly legal and institutional environment, as well as from the
reconstruction program.
C. Immediate Priority Focus
5.     Significant effort has already been invested in initiating a reconstruction program. With the
assistance from the World Bank and other agencies, the authorities have designed a three-year
reconstruction program which requires a total of about US$5.1 billion in external funding to support
reconstruction in infrastructure, social sectors, and agriculture and industry. Under the leadership of the
World Bank and the European Union (EU), a broad coalition of donors has been built, and the first year
funding needs of the program (US$1.8 billion) have been pledged. Work is now ongoing to translate these
pledges into firm commitments to projects and programs. An initial set of emergency projects financed by
the EU, the World Bank, and other donors are already in the process of implementation.
6.     Along with the initiation of the reconstruction program, the key priority over the next six to nine
months is to create an institutional structure that will transform the blueprint of the Peace Accords into
reality and a domestic economic environment that will allow donor resources to have the highest
productivity and impact. The first focus has to be on making the Federation into a practical working Entity
as one of the two constituent parts of the new State. Building an institutional framework for the Federation
and strengthening its governance, therefore, is a cornerstone for strengthening the governance of the State
and, in turn, for continuing the peace process. As one would have anticipated, the effort of building the
Federation, which started with the Washington Agreements of March 1994, has been slow and difficult.
The Dayton Peace Accords and subsequent agreements signed by the Federation authorities during the last
nine months have expressed the partners' commitment to the difficult task of Federation building, and
noticeable progress has been made since November 1995 although there have been, and will continue to be,
ups and downs.
D. Bank Assistance Strategy and Program to be Supported by TAC
7.     The Bank's assistance strategy mirrors the three tasks facing BH. Through the special Trust Fund
for BH, by using IDA resources, and through cofinancing the Bank is launching a series of operations,
including reconstruction of power, transport, water and sanitation, demining, and heating, to restore
infrastructure; and agriculture, line of credit, public works, local initiatives, demobilization and
reintegration, and housing, to directly assist employment generation; and provision of emergency social
funds, rehabilitation of education, hospital services, and war-victims, to provide social support during the
transition period. Job creation is a major focus of Bank-assisted programs.
8.    The proposed Credit focuses squarely on supporting recovery and the institutional development of
the Federation as a key building block for the development of the new State and of the peace process. It
aims to achieve this objective through: (i) establishing key Federation-wide economic institutions to
accelerate economic reintegration within the Federation; and (ii) stimulating economic growth and
employment generation through relaunching the process of economic transformation, which was interrupted
by the war, in the key areas of enterprise and banking reforms.



3
9.    The proposed Credit reflects the joint efforts made by the authorities and the Bank over a period of
14 months since May 1995. The Bank has worked intensively, initially with the Republic prior to the
Dayton-Paris Accords, and subsequently with State and Federation authorities to design a comprehensive
program for economic reintegration and growth-enhancing reforms. The authorities have given strong
indication of their commitment to the reform program outlined above (which is described in detail in
Sections III and IV of this report) as reflected in the Letter of Development Policy attached in Annex II.
10.   This operation supports the reform programs of the State and the Federation. Recently, the Bank
has deepened contacts with the Republika Srpska, and discussions have taken place on similar issues of
post-war reconstruction, economic reintegration with the Federation and political reintegration of the State,
and economic reforms. A future operation could support reforms focused on institution-building and
structural policies to support growth and reintegration in both entities and at the State level. The
Federation-building reforms supported by this Credit are a key building block to the bi-entity State
envisaged by the Dayton-Paris Accords.
11. ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. The Macroeconomic Policy Framework
11.   Macroeconomic stability, miraculously achieved under war conditions, remains tenuous and
depends critically on prudent management by the authorities. Following membership in the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) on December 20, 1995, the macroeconomic policy framework has been strengthened
on the basis of an economic program for 1996 agreed with the Fund and the Bank. The program aims to
maintain current macroeconomic stability by continuing to limit the fiscal deficit of the consolidated public
sector to levels compatible with available sources of foreign financing. The main policy instruments for
achieving these aims are: (i) a fixed exchange rate for the BH Dinar -- the transactions currency throughout
BH (BHD 100 = DM 1); (ii) a de facto currency board rule for BH dinar emission, precluding any central
bank financing of public sector deficits; (iii) limits on Central Bank credits to the commercial banking
sector and no domestic bank financing of public sector deficits; and (iv) avoidance of any significant
accumulation of new domestic arrears, especially in wage and social security payments.
B. Macroeconomic Prospects
12.   Post-war reconstruction is inherently a difficult and complex undertaking.  Forecasting the
economic outlook for the country, therefore, is particularly difficult. Experience from other countries
similarly afflicted by war, however, suggests that a strong reconstruction program could help the economy
rebound significantly. In the Bosnian context, it is possible that growth in 1996, with the envisaged
reconstruction program underway, could reach around 35-40 percent. In subsequent years, given the
currently low level of income as a result of the war, it is possible that the economy will continue to grow
rapidly, although at progressively declining rates. Assuming GDP growth will average above 15 percent
per year between 1997-2000, GDP could reach close to two-thirds of its prewar level by 2000.
13.   It should be underlined that this scenario requires full financing and implementation of the
reconstruction program, good progress on the ground in government institution-building, sound
macroeconomic and sectoral policies, significant debt relief by Paris and London Club creditors and
effective coordination among parties. If these were to be not in place, resulting in, inter alia, a significant
shortfall in donor financing for the reconstruction program, policy slippage in implementation of
stabilization and economic reform programs, and/or unfavorable debt workouts with London and Paris Club



4
creditors, the scenario illustrated here would not be feasible. Such a development would undoubtedly put at
risk the possibility of lasting peace and prosperity in BH.
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Selected Economic Indicators
Indicator                1990       1995       1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
timatcd                  projected
Gross Domestic Product
Million of US dollars      10633       2500       3425    4762    6230    7001    8883
Real growth (%)              na          8          33      35      27      20      12
PerCapitainUSdollars       2429         595        815     1134   1483    1833   2115
Merchandise FWorts
Million of US dollars       1990        152        266     548    847     1134    1460
Share of GDP (%/o)           19          6          8       12      14      15      16
Merchandise npr
Million of US dollars      1700         1082      1796    2759    2912    2862    2825
ShareofGDP(%)                16          43         52      58      47      37      32
Trade Balance
Share of GDP (%/6)           3           -37       -45     -46     -33     -22      -15
h
External Current Account
Share of GDP(%)               na        -5         -20     -37     -26     -16      -9
Includes humanitarian imports
b Includes transfers
Source: Data provided by Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, World Bank and IMF estimates
C. External Financing Requirements
14.    Considerable external financing will be needed to normalize BH's relations with external creditors,
as well as to cover the requirements of the reconstruction program. This nornalization involves both the
clearance of outstanding arrears as well as the restructuring and servicing of remaining debts. An important
first step in this direction was already taken on December 20, 1995, with the clearance of outstanding
arrears owed to the IMF permitting membership in that institution. On June 14, 1996, the World Bank's
Board of Executive Directors also approved the debt consolidation loan for BH that cleared its arrears to the
Bank and reduced Bank-related debt service requirements in the immediate following years. Normalization
of relations with other multilateral creditors is also expected to take place soon. Short-term financing
requirements consist mostly of reconstruction financing and debt service requirements for those debts that
have already been restructured. In 1996, total financing requirements are estimated to be at US$3.5 billion.
After taking into account anticipated reconstruction inflows and private flows (US$1.7 billion), arrears
clearance and debt relief to multilateral creditors (US$1.6 billion), and this proposed IDA adjustment credit
(US$0.09 billion), there will be a remaining financing gap of about US$160 million which is expected to be



5
filled by balance of payments support from the IMF, multilateral creditors other than the Bank, and bilateral
creditors (see Annex 1).
III. INSTITUTION-BUILDING AND ECONOMIC REINTEGRATION
15.    The Constitutional arrangements of the Peace Accords are the only framework in which the peoples
of BH--Bosniacs, Serbs, Croats and others--have agreed to work together to their mutual benefit. Efforts
have started to build the multi-level structure of government envisaged in the Constitution. The pivotal task
at this stage is to strengthen significantly the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina--demonstrating to all
groups the advantages of rebuilding BH as a multi-ethnic state. Good governance in the Federation is
critical for the reconstruction effort, and for a successful transition to a market economy. It also gives
impetus to the cooperation with the Republika Srpska on which the reintegration of the whole economy and
the effective governance of the State depend.
A. Creating Unified Federation Institutions
16.    The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established in March 1994 following the
Washington Agreement that ended the conflict between Bosniac and Croat forces. The Federation
Constitution prescribes a cantonal structure and gives a general outline of fiscal revenue and expenditure
assignments between the different levels of government. During 1995, a significant body of legislation was
adopted, including a banking law and various indirect taxation laws. However, the parties faced difficulties
in agreeing on precise cantonal borders and on the critical details of intergovernmental fiscal relations. In
the absence of such agreements, key institutions--including the tax and customs administration and the
payments bureau system--remained separate in the Bosniac and Croat parts, and federal legislation was not
implemented.
17.    The Joint Statement on the Federation issued on February 18, 1996 in Rome, the Sarajevo
Agreement of March 30, 1996, the Bonn/Petersberg Agreement of April 25, 1996, and, most recently, the
Federation forum held in July in Sarajevo have provided a new impetus to making the Federation a reality.
Each of them identifies agreements on key federal economic institutions, including those mentioned below,
as critical to consolidating the Federation. A major stumbling block was finalization of cantonal borders. A
Canton Law was adopted by the Federation Parliament on June 12, 1996. All the cantons have been
established in at least the most rudimentary form.  Another stumbling block has concerned the
establishment and functioning of unified federal institutions of public finance. However, significant
progress has already been achieved on this front. Key tasks for institution-building at this stage include the
following:
18.    Formation of a Unified Federal Customs Administration (FCA). Merging the two existing, but
separate Croat and Bosniac customs administrations on the territory of the Federation is essential for
building a viable economy within the Federation and for providing the revenue base and resources that the
Federation--as agreed at Dayton--will transfer to the State. The tariff codes, the schedule of excise duty
rates for imported goods, and customs procedures are already harmonized, and cooperation between the two
administrations have been initiated as early as beginning 1995. On February 28, 1996, the Director of the
FCA and his deputy were appointed. Other senior managers were appointed in March, 1996. In early
April, 1996, additional measures were taken towards the forrnation of a unified FCA: (i) internal borders
between the Croat-majority and the Bosniac-majority area were eliminated and customs checks were moved
to the external border of BH; (ii) the operations of the two customs administrations were unified; and (iii) a
team of international observers organized by the EU was deployed to monitor Federation customs
procedures and operations, including the absence of internal border checks and the flow of customs



6
revenues to the Federation budget. Further actions were taken to transfer customs revenue collected by the
FCA to the Federation budget which involved opening Federation revenue accounts for receiving customs
revenues, followed in turn by transfer of customs revenues to these accounts. More recently, after
Parliamentary approval of the Federation budget, the Federation has started to use customs revenues from
the Federation revenue account to finance Federation-wide expenditures.
19.    Unification of the Payments Bureau Systens. Until recently, there were no linkages between the
banking and payments systems in the Croat and Bosniac areas of the Federation. Following the Dayton
Agreements, initial linkages were established in November 1995, making it possible to effect transactions in
Deutsche Marks (DM) directly between the two areas. However, the payments system was not fully unified
and the linkage that existed until recently still required an inefficient weekly bilateral physical settlement
and clearance, implemented through physically shipping an amount of currency for weekly settlement of the
transactions balance. Full unification of the system was needed to complement the unification of the
customs administrations, and to help establish a unified financial system in the Federation that facilitates
trade, commerce and economic integration. Significant progress has been achieved recently, including
appointment of the director and deputy director of a unified Federal Payments Bureau (FPB), agreement on
full unification of the system and implementation of all the required measures for the operation of a single
FPB. The agreement covers all three currently circulating currencies (Kuna, Deutsche Mark and Dinar) in
the unified payment system and provides for National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NBBH) guarantee
of the full convertibility of the Dinar into DM for Federation budget purposes (the Federation budget is
denominated in DM). Following effectiveness of the agreement in mid-August, the operation of the system
was monitored by the Bank and the Fund in collaboration with the EU international observers. It was
observed that the system has been fully integrated and operating swiftly. Physical settlement and clearance
of transaction balances is no longer required between the two parts of the payment system in the Federation.
Ultimately, a nationwide payment system in which the RS is fully integrated is desirable.
20.    Formation of a Unified Federal Tax Administration (FTA). Merging the currently separate two tax
administrations in the Croat and Bosniac regions, and building the cantonal structure of tax administration is
also critical for strengthening the Federation. The new tax administration must be sufficiently centralized to
ensure that a professional structure is in place, while keeping the structure sufficiently flexible to allow for
the unique institutional arrangements within the Federation. In early April 1996, the FTA director and his
deputy were appointed. A new Federation tax administration law has been drafted and has passed the first
reading at the Federation Parliament. Comments from cantonal authorities are now being discussed and the
Law is expected to be submitted for final Parliament approval during the next parliamentary session of the
Federation. Before the end of 1996, the tax laws and the tax administration law of the Federation should be
applied throughout the Federation.
21.    Establishment of the Federal Banking Agency (FBA). Another immediate priority is establishing
the needed unified and uniform legal, regulatory and institutional framework for bank licensing, regulation,
and supervision throughout the Federation. This is critical to providing the basis for the development of a
sound financial system within the Federation and to eliminating the regulatory vacuum that now exists in
some parts of the Federation. During the war, parallel banking systems and regulatory and supervision
frameworks were developed in the Croat-majority and in the Bosniac-majority areas of the Federation, and
the systems remain separate. Licenses for banks in the Croat-majority area of the Federation were revoked
by the NBBH during the war and the NBBH has not reissued them since. To reintegrate the banking
system, a number of steps have now been taken. A Federal Banking Agency Law was approved by the
Parliament in early June. The Board of Directors for the Agency and the managing director and deputy
director were appointed at the end of July. A work plan is now being developed for the Agency. New
temporary licenses will be issued to all banks within the Federation by the new FBA and in turn be replaced



7
with permanent licenses to those banks who are found conforming to new regulatory standards. This Law
provides an important instrument for unifying the financial sector and providing a uniform standard for
banking throughout the Federation. Swift implementation of the FBA could provide the basis, in turn, for a
possible State-wide agency in the future that supervises or harmonizes supervision of banks across both
Entities.
Core TAC Actions Already Undertaken
22.    Since the initialing of the Dayton Accords in October, 1995, the authorities' efforts in institution-
building and reintegration have been greatly intensified, building also on the Rome, Sarajevo and
Bonn/Petersberg Agreements. Significant progress has been made in all the areas listed above.
23.    Therefore, the following three core actions in the area of government institution-building, which
had been set as prior actions required to proceed with the TAC during the preparation of the project, have
now been fulfilled (presentation to the Federation Parliament of the Federation Privatization Agency Law,
another core action, is discussed in para 54.):
e  Full unification of the FCA, including the elimination of internal checkpoints, the
transfer of accumulated customs revenues in the Bosniac and Croat payments systems
to the Federation revenue accounts, demonstrated continual flow of customs revenues
to the Federation budget, as verified by EU international observers.
-  Full unification of the FPB, including appointment of the director and deputy director,
development of a checklist of measures to be taken for unification, and implementation
of all the required measures for a single FPB as demonstrated by lack of need for
periodic settlement and clearance between the two parts of the payments system for
transactions balances.
• Adoption by the Federation Parliament of the Federation Banking Agency Law.
24.    The Bank has been providing technical assistance to support the authorities in their efforts and will
continue this assistance under the TAC. Financing for technical assistance required is being provided
through the Bank-financed Emergency Recovery Project, (ERP) (BA-SF-44389).
B. Reintegration and Reform of Public Finance
25.    The Peace Accords and State and Federal Constitutions provide an overall institutional policy
framework for the development of a fiscal system for the State, the Federation, the cantons and the
municipalities. However, this framework has yet to be structured into an operative organization with
appropriate laws, regulations and fiscal institutions. Therefore, the institution-building efforts will need to
be complemented by an additional effort in reintegration and reform of the budget, tax policies,
intergovernmental fiscal relations, and the pension and health care systems within the Federation, and later
between the entities. These longer term policies and challenges, outlined below, are also the focus of the
Letter of Development Policy.
i.     Reintegration of Budget and Tax Systems
26.    1996 Budgets. BH has been, until recently, operating with three budgets: one each for the Croat-
majority area, the Bosniac-majority area, and the RS. Following the Peace Accords, the State and



8
Federation budgets were outlined in collaboration with multilateral institutions. Although the State and the
Federation governments were set up in early February 1996, there was no budget for these two levels of the
government between February and June, when they were temporarily financed by the extension, on a
quarterly basis, of the previous budgets. The budget of the State was approved at the end of May. The
budget of the Federation was approved in mid-June, providing the basis for the Federation Government to
finance expenditures such as demobilization of soldiers, health and education, and for an active
participation in the reconstruction program.
27.    Further steps to develop 1996 budgets for the cantons are expected to continue. Budget laws for
cantons are expected to be passed later this year. The 1996 budgets of the cantons are expected to specify
the distribution of revenues and expenditure responsibilities for each level of government. According to the
March 30 Sarajevo Agreement, no revenues will be provided to cantons that have not formed a government
and developed acceptable operating procedures. Steps necessary to make individual canton budgets
operational include: (i) passage of the law creating cantons of the Federation; (ii) definition of interim
revenue and expenditure assignments among levels of government; and (iii) for cantons that are not
operational, introduction of a special mechanism that protects revenues and guarantees service continuity in
the municipalities within the cantonal area.
28.    Harmonization of Tax Policy. Within the Federation, two divergent sets of tax laws evolved in the
Croat and Bosniac areas over the last few years. They remain distinct. To emerge as a single viable
economic entity, the Federation must now apply a uniform set of tax laws throughout the Federation
territory. The intent of all reforms is to structure the tax system to accomplish two main objectives: (i) to
make it consistent with the principles of a market economy, which includes minimizing distortions in the
allocation of resources and limiting opportunities for evasion and rent seeking; and (ii) to establish a
coherent set of Federation tax rules that will result in an internally consistent structure.
29.    An effort has already begun to initiate tax policy reform as one component of the Federation
government's policy reform program. In 1996, a special working group will review current legislation,
make any necessary revisions, and adopt appropriate rules for taxation throughout the Federation. The
Federation needs to decide immediately on which set of tax codes will be applied on a temporary basis in
areas where no Federation tax law has been adopted. An interim set of rules must also be approved for the
FTA to operate until the law on the FTA is approved. This process has already began with the adoption of
the Federation tax legislation for the sales, excise and customs taxes. Work is under way on the corporate
and personal income tax. Reduction in current income and wage tax rates is expected to be one of the
significant areas of tax reform. In addition, improved cost recovery through user fees will be a high
priority.
30.   Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. The cantons will be the foundation of the Federation. A law
determining both the number of cantons and their boundaries was adopted by the Federation Parliament on
June 12, 1996. Ten Cantons determined by the Law have been established in at least the most rudimentary
form. Based on the distribution of responsibilities defined by the Dayton Accords, the Federation Ministry
of Finance and canton staff are expected to prepare final budgets for individual cantons. By the end of
August 1996, the cantons in operation are expected to have drafted their 1996 budgets. In parallel, the
Federation government intends to work to prepare a stable assignment of revenue and expenditure
responsibilities among the various levels of government. On the expenditure side, the State and Federation
Governments will seek to bring service delivery as close as possible to the final users. Thus, cantons and
municipalities are expected to have major responsibilities in service delivery. The main objective for
assignment of revenue ownership is to provide sufficient financing for service delivery at each level of
government. A Federation law on intergovernmental relations and public finance is expected to be



9
presented to the Federation Parliament for approval before the end of 1996, and will serve as the basis for
1997 budgets. Assistance from the World Bank is sought to assist with work on intergovernmental finance.
31.    To support timely and sound development of the federation fiscal system, the Federation
Government intends to establish, on a permanent basis, a Commission on Intergovernmental Fiscal
Relations (CIFR). It is expected that the Commission's structure and responsibilities will be outlined and
the Commission will be operative in 1996. A first task of the Commission will be to support the
Government in the design of the legislative framework for fiscal federalism.
ii.    Reintegration of Pension Systems
1.     Current Situation
32.    Two pension schemes currently operate in the Federation. The scheme covering the Bosniac-
majority area collects a payroll tax of 24.5 percent of gross salary from approximately 150,000 workers and
pays pensions to about 200,000 pensioners. The average pension level was 11.4 DM per month in 1995.
The scheme operating in the Croat-majority area collects 17.5 percent of the salaries from about
50,000 workers (including police and military) and pays almost 50,000 pensions. Pensioners in the Croat-
majority area received pensions of 65 DM per month in 1995. The disparity in pension levels is almost
completely explained by a parallel disparity in wage levels. The pre-war distribution of benefits has been,
in principle, maintained in the Bosniac area while the lack of access to pension records (stored in Sarajevo)
has led the scheme in the Croat-majority area to pay a flat pension. During the war, pensioners in both
schemes received benefits below legally prescribed amounts leading to an accumulation of claims (arrears)
for unpaid pensions.
2.     Reform Agenda
33.    There are three separate challenges for reintegrating these two systems and creating a Federation
pension policy. First, the arrears mentioned above must be handled within the context of other claims on
the government and overall restitution policy and within available resource constraints. Second, there is an
immediate need to provide poverty relief and to create new Federation institutions during the initial
transition period before in-depth pension reform is possible. Finally, a new pension system must be
designed in the context of a comprehensive pension reform. Progress in these areas will help the
reintegration process within the Federation.
34.    The immediate challenge is to deal with the aftermath of the war. The war destroyed the resource
base (wages) from which pensions are financed resulting in the collapse of real pension levels, especially in
the Bosniac-majority area. It also led to an ad hoc dual organizational structure which is hampering the
development of an integrated Federation pension policy. This suggests that the first stage of the reform
should address these two issues by: (i) establishing pension institutions which operate at the Federation
level; and (ii) raising minimum pension levels across the Federation, consistent with resource constraints.
35.    To achieve these two objectives, the Government is considering establishment of a Federation
Pension Fund that will pay flat rate pensions to all Federation pensioners. The Fund would be managed by
a new Federation Pension Agency. It would be financed from two sources: First, there would be a payroll
tax contribution per employee to the new Federation Agency; and second, the Federation budget would
transfer a part of cash support from donors to the Fund which would be facilitated, inter alia, by the
proposed TAC. While initially there will remain some difference in the level of pensions, over the longer-



10
term, the Government is aiming to provide uniform benefits packages to all pension beneficiaries in the
Federation.
36.    The next stage of the reform will need to address a more comprehensive reform of the pension
system which aims at providing affordable benefits while taking into account the need to reduce the current
payroll tax rates. This will require projections of pension finances under different reform scenarios and
economic assumptions. Key decisions will have to be made on how quickly to raise retirement ages, the
target level of benefits, criteria for disability etc. and other policies with fiscal implications. Critical choices
will also have to be made regarding the administrative structure of the new system. In addition to political
considerations, economic issues such as labor mobility and administrative costs will have to be addressed.
At a later stage, a State-level institution might be developed.
37.    A Pension Reform Working Group consisting of members of both existing funds in the Federation
has already begun to analyze these issues. The government has asked the World Bank to continue to
provide technical support during this process. In addition, a comprehensive pension reform would be
incorporated into future structural adjustment efforts.  Developing new regulations and establishing
regulatory institutions to oversee an emerging private pension sector would comprise the final element of
the overall pension reform.
3.     Actions to be Supported by TAC
38.    The proposed operation will support the establishment of a Federation Pension Fund to be managed
by a Federation Pension Agency as described above. The technical assistance which was provided during
the preparation of this project will continue during implementation. The proposed Project and associated
technical assistance by the Bank will facilitate the eventual reintegration of a reformed pension system
across the entire Federation.
iii.    Reintegration of Health Finance Systems
1.     Current Situation
39.    Bosnia's pre-war health system was among the most sophisticated in eastern Europe. The system
fragmented during the war between the Entities and remains so today. From the beginning of the war until
now, health care financing has also been organized separately and differently in the two areas of the
Federation. In the Bosniac-majority area, health care financing has been channeled through the government
budget, while in the Croat-majority area, health care financing has been organized through an extra-
budgetary fund for health care. Both areas levy payroll taxes for health care at a rate of 12.5 percent of
gross wages. Like most other sectors, the health sector today faces the triple challenge of overcoming
weaknesses and damages in physical infrastructure as a result of the war, lack of an effective governance
framework, and low levels of financing capacity. Measures are now urgently required for reintegration of
the health care system in the Federation and for improving the provision of health care within the
Federation.
2.     Issues and Plans in Health Finance Reform
40.    Health Finance Imbalances. Because the payroll tax base plummeted in most areas during the war,
domestic resources can neither support normal salaries for health care workers nor finance local health care
needs.  During the war, the flow of health care services continued only thanks to donations of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies from abroad. Local staff were often not paid at all, particularly in the



11
Bosniac-majority area. When salary payments resumed in the Bosniac-majority area in the second half of
1995, the average net salary was only DM 46 per month. The Federation MoH estimated that more than
DM 500 million would be needed in 1996 to fund a uniform Federation-wide health plan, assuming health
input levels at 30 percent below pre-war levels and service prices 60 percent below pre-war levels. By
comparison, total health spending amounted to about DM 110 million in 1995, or about 7.3 percent of its
pre-war level, against payroll taxes of about DM 91 million in that year. An urgent infusion of cash is,
therefore, needed to restore basic health service delivery while a fundamental restructuring of the sector is
implemented.
41.    Health Finance Reform Plan. Over the past months, the Federation Government prepared draft
health care finance legislation that proposes to progressively implement a three-tier system of health
insurance. The first, compulsory, tier will ensure that all people have access to a package of basic health
care services that is uniform across the Federation. At the option of each canton, a second compulsory tier
would provide coverage for a canton-specified supplementary package of additional services, financed by a
mandatory payroll tax. A third tier of voluntary private insurance, financed by private premiums, would
cover enhanced amenities of care and additional services not included under the compulsory tiers. The
compulsory tiers would be run by cantonal funds within Federation guidelines.
42.    The initial draft law has two major weaknesses. First, in many cases, poor cantons would not have
the required tax base to finance even the first tier, so that they would require budget transfers from as yet
unspecified sources to maintain broad access to basic health services. Second, canton-based health finance
would lead to higher administrative costs and undesirable small risk pools. The MoH recognizes these
shortcomings, and is revising the draft law to include a new financing scheme for the first tier.
43.    Under this scheme, the first tier would be funded by a nominal contribution from wage earners, to
be deducted from the payroll tax and paid into a Federation Health Fund. Given the current low tax
resources arising from the low level of employment and wages, especially in the Bosniac areas, this funding
source would be supplemented by donor contributions.
44.    The scheme would work as follows. A fixed nominal amount--initially a maximum of 10 DM per
month--will be paid into the Federation Health Fund from the health insurance contributions of each
employee within the Federation. For at least nine months beginning in October 1996, the Federation
Government would supplement these deposits with matching payments on a one-for-one basis, up to a limit
of DM 3.3 million per month. The Federation would finance its payments into this Fund using donor
resources that provide BOP and fiscal support, including the TAC, until such time as the tax base has
sufficiently expanded to cover the funding of the first tier. The combined funds from both sources would be
divided on a per capita basis and returned to the cantons, to be used to finance basic health care services
under Tier 1. This scheme would have two advantages. First, a Federation-wide funding scheme would
avoid the inherent fragility of canton-based finance for the first tier.  Second, it would reduce the
administrative cost associated with a canton-based administration for the financing of the first tier, and
would broaden the risk pool.
3.     Reforms to be Supported under TAC
45.    The proposed operation will support the design and implementation of the Federation-wide health
care system as described above. In particular, the donor-financed technical assistance which was provided
during the preparation of the project is expected to be continued during TAC implementation.



12
IV. STIMULATING GROWTH THROUGH RELAUNCHING MARKET REFORMS
46.    Employment generation and economic recovery is an urgent necessity in BH, where per capita
GDP has fallen by three quarters from some US$2400 in 1990 to some US$600 in 1995, and the living
conditions of the Bosnian people have declined drastically. While growth will have to come from donor-
financed reconstruction-related activities in the initial stage of economic recovery, sustained job creation
and increases in production over the medium term will have to come, like everywhere else in Central and
Eastern Europe, from the expansion of private initiatives.
47.    Establishing an environment conducive to the development of private activities in Bosnia will
require major policy reforms in two broad areas. The first involves redefining the role of the government,
moving away from the all-encompassing involvement toward a more focused, facilitating and regulatory
role. To this end, a new legal and regulatory framework, supportive of the private sector, has to be set up.
The second area involves transformation of the enterprise and banking system, particularly through
ownership reform and privatization. Early and fast privatization of existing socially owned enterprises and
banks will greatly facilitate expansion of private activities. Under the proposed Credit, an agreement on the
framework of enterprises and banking reform has been reached, and preliminary work has been initiated for
fundamental reform in these areas in subsequent years.
A. Reform of the Enterprise Sector
Current Structure, Situation and Problems of the Enterprise Sector
48.    The current structure of the enterprise sector within the Federation reflects dramatic changes since
the war. Firms have relocated headquarters and branches as a result of territorial changes. New private
enterprises are being established (especially in trade), and many socially-owned, mixed and private
enterprises that had existed before the war have been closed. Most notably, the number of enterprises has
declined to about half of pre-war levels, and those enterprises still in existence are now much smaller in
terms of head count and capitalization. At the end of 1994, there were 6,107 legally registered enterprises
with 121,414 employees and DM 14.3 billion in nominal capital within the territory of the Federation. This
compares with 11,163 enterprises with 765,440 employees and DM 63.1 billion in capital at end 1991. The
conflict has substantially reduced the number of legal entities, lowered employment to a fraction of pre-war
levels, and substantially gutted the book value of "social capital."
49.    Over the last several years, parallel legal frameworks have developed in the two areas of the
Federation. In each area, pragmatic steps have been taken to improve the corporate governance of socially-
owned enterprises, prevent asset stripping and other forms of spontaneous privatization, and pave the way
for private sector investment. At the end of 1994, a special law was adopted by the then Republic's
parliament to convert all socially-owned enterprises (which at that time accounted for about three quarters
of employment and most book-valued capital) to State ownership. However, a similar draft law was not
accepted in the Federal Parliament because of disagreements concerning the degree of centralized control
over enterprises and vagueness concerning privatization proposals.
50.    Production, which had experienced an almost complete stoppage in the Bosniac-majority area for
two years, was restarted in a number of enterprises at the end of 1994, notably in food processing, textiles
and apparel, leather and shoes, and soap and hygienic products. Most pre-war conglomerates have now
been separated into constituent parts, with the few large manufacturers left still struggling to survive.
Private enterprises and local entities of small and medium size are becoming very active, mostly in trade
and transport operations; a few are in food processing and primary goods.



13
Strategies for Privatization, Restitution and the Settlement of Claims
51.    The Federation Government is beginning to work on developing a market-based, privately owned
enterprise sector. Accelerated private sector development will require: (i) entry of new private enterprises to
stimulate competition; and (ii) adoption of an enterprise privatization program. In the short term, the
injection of working capital into the still-viable parts of the enterprise sector will help initiate economic
recovery. In the medium term, needed reforms include the clarification of laws and regulations, a focused
and transparent framework for property rights, contract enforcement, bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures, and modernization of institutions and information systems. Greater efficiency in and clarity of
the court processes and property registries will also be essential to sustain competitiveness. Focused pursuit
of these objectives will provide for sufficient change in the ownership and incentive structures of the private
sector to enable it to become more competitive.
52.    Enterprise Privatization.  The Federation Government is currently preparing a privatization
program which will transform ownership of State- and socially-owned enterprises. Enterprise privatization
would be implemented mostly at the canton level through Canton Privatization Agencies. It is expected that
the Federal Privatization Agency will also be directly involved with more complex privatizations involving
companies operating across cantons, including utilities, transport and telecommunications. Nevertheless,
the vast majority of privatizations are expected to be small enough to be transacted quickly and at the
canton level.
53.    Critical to the success of this program  is the establishment of the Federation and Cantonal
Privatization Agencies. Legislation to establish these agencies was approved by the Federation Parliament
in June 1996. Subsequent efforts, with technical assistance inputs as appropriate, will focus on establishing
the guidelines, supervisory procedures and organizational requirements of the agencies.
54.    Privatization and the Settlement of Claims. Due to the war, the Federation Government has not
been able to meet many financial obligations to individuals. These included wage and pension arrears,
wages of soldiers, as well as the frozen deposits described below. It is well beyond the Federation
Government's fiscal means to do so now. The Federation Government is, therefore, considering linking
settlement of these claims to the privatization program. The proposed Settlement Mechanism would use the
assets such as State- and socially-owned enterprises, and possibly apartments, to resolve these claims. The
claims (which may be of several types) would be exchanged for certificates (or passbook values), which
could then be used to purchase assets sold in the privatization program. Key issues under consideration are
which claims will be recognized, and which assets will be available for purchase. In addition to existing
claims on the State (such as frozen foreign currency accounts, wage arrears, restitution claims), the
Federation Government is considering the issuance of "universal vouchers" for the general population to
encourage participation in the privatization process, and to recognize past contributions to the social capital
of enterprises. If the Settlement Mechanism is comprehensively implemented, it will enable the recognition
of the outstanding claims of individuals on the Federation Government on an equal footing, while capping
the aggregate claim by the value of assets to be made available for privatization.



14
Core TAC Actions Already Undertaken
55.    The most immediate requirement for enterprise reform is the adoption of an enterprise privatization
program. To implement the program, it is essential that privatization infrastructure (Federal and Cantonal
Privatization Agencies) be established and operational. In the near term, the Federation should (i) hire
needed staff for the Privatization Agencies to develop needed business plans, identify needed technical
assistance, and launch initial privatization quickly; and (ii) issue general privatization guidelines, and begin
to educate the public in advance of the initial privatization transactions. Presentation to the Federation
Parliament of the Privatization Agency Law has been a core action required for proceeding with the
TAC, and is now fulfilled. Currently, arrangements for financing the work of the technical expert group,
and preparatory technical assistance work for privatization are being undertaken.
B. Reform of the Banking Sector
Current Structure and Situation of the Banking Sector
56.    There are 36 banks in the Federation, of which about 14 are wholly- or majority-owned by non-
private institutions, including several old banks still owned by successors to the socially-owned enterprises.
On a book-valued basis, the large socially-owned banks account for most of the nominal value of assets in
the banking system. As in other parts of the economy, parallel banking systems and regulatory and
supervision frameworks have developed in the two areas of the Federation in the last few years. As of April
1996, 28 banks are licensed by NBBH, and 8 banks were licensed by the Mostar-based administration of the
Croat-majority area, and have not obtained licenses from NBBH since the Washington Agreement brought
the Federation into existence some two years ago. Because of their devastated balance sheets (frozen
deposits, non-performing loans), banks have been unable to intermediate savings or provide financing on
any significant scale. Most credits are given for short-term durations to finance trade activities, and carry
interest rates ranging from 2 to 6 percent per month. A lack of public confidence combined with excessive
fees for transfer services deter deposit mobilization (and, hence, financial intermediation). New private
banks are small in size and lack sufficient financial resources to support general economic recovery, while
the old banks are burdened with many problems inherited from the past. About 90-95 percent of banking
sector assets are non-performing.
Reform Plans for the Banks
57.    The Federation authorities have made progress in initiating banking reform, including the
legalization of private banking, liberalization of bank entry, and introduction of a legal and regulatory
framework for banking. Nevertheless, further significant reforms are needed to ensure establishment of a
sound banking system. Structural reforms should aim to create a diversified economy in which privately
owned and operated enterprises make independent business decisions based on market criteria, and private
banks provide needed intermediation and services to support the investment requirements of the private
sector. Within such a framework, the focus of immediate banking sector reform should be on restructuring
and removing bad assets in banks, and establishing a suitable legal and regulatory framework. This should
be combined with movement towards privatization. The key role of the Federation Govemment during the
coming months is to undertake key institutional reforms to implement a suitable legal and regulatory
framework for banking and to create a favorable environment for privatization of viable non-private banks.



15
Reform Actions to be Supported by TAC
58.    Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Reform. The BH State and the Federation Governments have
several draft laws in preparation defining the role of the central bank, commercial banks, and insurance and
capital markets. It is essential that a FBA be established, to provide a basis for unifying the banking sector,
and that more suitable prudential banking regulations be introduced to strengthen banking sector operations.
The Federation Government has taken a significant step in this direction by adopting the Federal Banking
Agency Law. The establishment of FBA and appointment of a core staff are now progressing.
59.    Planning for Reorganization and Privatization of Socially-owned Banks. The restructuring and
privatization of socially-owned banks involves three major components: (i) the carve-out or removal of
foreign exchange-denominated liabilities from bank balance sheets, as well as assets related to the SFRY
and other non-perfonning assets not capable of being restructured; (ii) the prompt work-out or restructuring
of recoverable assets through a time-bound work-out period; and (iii) subsequent privatization,
consolidation or liquidation. The carve-out is expected to proceed as follows. First, some assets (claims on
the former National Bank of Yugoslavia) and "matched" frozen foreign currency deposit accounts will be
separated from the banks' balance sheets, with the "assets" transferred to the government for resolution or
final liquidation, and the deposit account liabilities transferred to a settlement mechanism linked to the
resolution of claims through housing and enterprise privatization. Second, banks will transfer other assets
which cannot be restructured. along with matched foreign currency borrowing, to the government after a
six-month work-out period. Third, after such transfers are finalized, a definitive bank reorganization and
privatization program will be enacted, taking into account capital adequacy requirements and other
considerations. The Federation authorities intend to resolve or liquidate banks that cannot meet these
requirements. Technical assistance will be provided by the Bank, using funds made available from the
Emergency Recovery Credit as well as other sources, in the following six to twelve months to strengthen
bank policies, procedures, management and systems, and to devise privatization strategies focused on
attracting fresh capital for these "new" and reorganized banks.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Amount and Borrower
60.    The proposed IDA Credit, in an amount equivalent to SDR 62.4 million (US$90 million), will be
made to Bosnia and Herzegovina for a period of 35 years, including a 10-year grace period, on standard
IDA terms. Of this total, US$60 million equivalent will be onlent to the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina at the same terms of the Credit. The beneficiaries would be the State and the Federation.
Cofinancing of about US$20 niillion, on grant terms, has been offered by the Government of Netherlands
for this Credit. Financing for the technical assistance required for both the preparation and implementation
of this operation are being provided through the Bank-financed Emergency Recovery Project, (ERP) (BA-
SF-44389).
B. Credit Design
61.    The proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for fiscal and balance of payments
assistance in support of the State and Federation Governments' efforts to undertake post-war reintegration
and reorganization of governance structures, public financing, and the relaunching of banking and enterprise
reforms. The main elements of the program supported by this operation include: (i) reintegration and
rebuilding of government institutions and the public finance structures, (ii) support of growth and
employment creation, in parallel with the reconstruction program, through initiation of privatization of



16
enterprises and banks, resolution of outstanding claims, and enhancement of the legal and regulatory
framework for private sector development.
62.    Substantial progress is already underway.  In the area of macroeconomic management, the
authorities have been prudent. A cautious monetary policy has been reinforced by limiting budget deficits
to the level of financing available from non-domestic financing sources. In building a new governance
structure, progress is being made to set up unified Federation institutions. In the area of reviving growth,
employment generation, and private sector development, the authorities have proceeded with the drafting of
new legislation that will provide a framework for enterprise privatization and the resolution of outstanding
claims.
C. Administrative Arrangement and Use of Proceeds of the Credit
63.    The State Ministry of Finance and the Federation Ministry of Finance will administer the Credit,
with each responsible for a pre-allocated amount of funds under the Credit. Based on the discussions with
both government authorities, it is understood that the counterpart funds of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit would be used to support fiscal expenditures by the State and Federation Governments. Counterpart
funds will be used to support general fiscal expenditures, including among others: recurrent costs related to
demobilization of soldiers; a pension scheme; the emergency social fund; and the minimum health care
scheme. This budget is designed to support fiscal stabilization and reintegration.
D. Disbursement
64.     The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche and will follow the Bank's new disbursement
procedures for structural adjustment operations. This tranche is expected to be released by early-September
1996 after approval by the Board in the early days of September and following the effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement. Upon notification of tranche release, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by IDA in
special account(s) at the request of the Borrower.
E. Monitoring Arrangements
65.   Implementation of the policy program will be monitored by a Committee composed of members of
the State Board for Economic Recovery and the Federation Reconstruction Coordination Board. The
Committee will have responsibility for monitoring and evaluating progress under the various components of
the program with input from participating ministries/institutions. IDA will monitor implementation with
the help of the policy matrix (attached as Annex 111), the Committee's reports, and through supervision
missions.
F. Environmental Assessment Requirements
66.   In accordance with the Bank's operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01,
Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C " and does not require an environmental
assessment.
G. Benefits and Risks
67.    The proposed Credit will support measures that are crucial for the development of a new
government structure on the State and Federation levels, reintegration of the economic system,
reorganization of public finance, employment creation and economic growth. If successful, these measures



17
will help BH to achieve tangible results following the Peace Accords and facilitate sustainable economic
growth and political stability. The benefits of a unified institutional framework for the Federation will
strengthien economic management. Reorganization and reintegration of the public finance system will help
finance expenditures that benefit all people in the Federation, and the reintegration of payments and
customs system  will facilitate trade, production and economic activities in general.  Private sector
development and initiation of privatization will lead to improved environment for economic activity and
economic performance to revitalize production and revive trade and investment. The program will help
establish a market-based legal and regulatory framework for banking, promote the entry and growth of
private banks, and encourage the reorganization of socially-owned banks. By pursuing rigorous reform in
the public sector and promoting private sector development, TAC will also contribute to employment
creation and thereby to reducing poverty.
68.    There will also be large risks in the process. The process of reintegration will not be easy. There
will be ups and downs in the difficult process of peace and reintegration. Difficulties in demobilization,
Federation building, establishment of key institutions, reconstruction program, employment generation, and
the very process of peace itself, will present a tremendous challenge to Bosnia and the outside world alike.
The situation is fragile. Therefore, TAC represents a high degree of risk for the Bank. Federation-building
efforts could fail to truly take hold, and the full and effective reintegration of the two Entities as envisaged
under the Dayton-Paris Accords, following the elections may also remain incomplete. But there is no
alternative. The Dayton-Paris framework is the one to which both Entities and all parties have agreed, and
which the international community is pledged to support. A strong Bank presence in BH in the policy
arena, and the Bank's central role--together with EU--in the aid coordination process can, however,
facilitate the peace process by enhancing the confidence of the population in post-war reconstruction.
69.    There will also be risk of policy slippage as BH  is facing a daunting dual challenge of
reconstructioni and transition to a market economy. Meeting this challenge will require an exceptional effort
on the part of the Government. In this environment, policy slippage, including delays in establishing key
government institutions, could delay economic recovery and lead to shortfalls in external financing, all of
which could have a severe adverse impact on the peace process and the country's access to donor resources.
The Bank will seek to mitigate the risk of policy slippage by maintaining (and intensifying when necessary)
a close dialogue under TAC with key decision makers and providing a full range of non-lending services,
including policy advice, economic and sector work, and technical assistance.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
70.    1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approved the proposed Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments:  Schedules
Annexes
Washington, D.C.
August 14, 1996






18
SCHEDULELA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:                 Two and a half months
2.    Project prepared by:                   Government with IDA assistance
3.    Identification mission:                February/March 1996
4.    Appraisal mission:                     May 1996
5.    Negotiations:                          May 15, 1996
6.    Planned Board Presentation:            September 5, 1996
7.    Planned effectiveness:                 September 6, 1996
8.    Expected project completion:           Not Applicable
9.    Relevant SAR:                          Not Applicable



19
SCHEDULE B
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of July 31, 1996)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                                             (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year        Borrower                         Proiect                               Loan      Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
[BRD W
4038-BOS  1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Consolidation Loan A                             28.6
4039-BOS  1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Consolidation Loan B                            284.9
4040-BOS  1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina Consolidation Loan C                            307.1
Total                                            620.6           0.0
TFBH (Under Disbursement d)
TF-024030 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Recovery Credit                        45.0          35.9
TF-024031  1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Farm Reconstruction                    20.0          18.9
TF-024032  1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Water Supply                           20.0          18.0
TF-024033 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Transport                               35.0         27.6
TF-024034 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency District Heating d                     20.0          17.9
TF-024035  1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation               5.0          4.0
TF-024040 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Education Reconstruction                 5.0          4.0
Total                                            150.0        126.3
IDA
2897-BOS              Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Education Reconstruction                5.0          5.0
2896-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation               5.0          5.0
2902-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Housing Repair                          15.0         15.0
2903-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Power Reconstruction                    35.6         33.6
2902-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Public Works and Employment             10.0         10.0
2902-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Landmines Clearance                     7.5           7.5
2902-BOS             Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration        7.5           7.5
Total                                             85.6         83.6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1996)
Gross Commitments
---------USS Million-------
Fiscal
Year        Oblitor                         TyVe of Business                           Loan  Equity   Total
1977      Tvomica Karona I
Ambalaze Cazin      Timber, Pulp and Paper                                  15.6     2.6   18.2
1978      Soko Mostar           Industrial Equipment & Machinery                         7.0     --      7.0
1985      Sour Energoinvest     Industrial Equipment and Machinery                      15.2     --    15.2
Total Gross Commitments                                37.8     2.6   40.4
Less: Participations, Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments, Writeoffs
and Sales                                        23.5     2.6   26.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      14.3     _      14.3
Total Undisbursed
Total Outstanding                                      14.3     _      14.3
The status of these projects is described in a separate repon on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and ciwulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Consolidazion Loan A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
Trust Funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina
di   Disbursenents to date are from the Project start-Up Advance.



20                                                            SCHEDULE C
page 1 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance
Bosnia Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and    Central    Low. 
Herzagovine      Asia  Income      Development damond
Population mid-1994 (rniflons)                         4.2       488    3.1B2                 Lffeexpectancy
GNP per capita 1994 (USS) 1/                                   2,270      390
GNP 1994 (bilbons USS) 11                                      1,108    1,241
Average annual growth, 1930-94
Population (X)                                         -1.1       0.4      1 8                                         Gro"
Laborforre ()                                                    0.6       1.     GNP                                  Gr-- p
per                             ~Prhinury
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1959)                           capta                            e >nrnt
Poverty: headcount index (X of populatlon)                                       I
Urban populabon (1 of total population)                 49        85       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        71        88       83
Infant mortality (per 1,000 wfive bitis)                19        23       B8
Child malnutrition (1 of children under 5)                                 38               Access to s te water
Access to safe water (16 of population)                  .          .      87
Illiteracy (1 of population age 15+)                                       35
Gross primary enrollment (1 of schooPage population)              97      1oS       -Bosrdi and HerzegovWna
Male                                                            97      112           Low-incomSe grwp
Female                                                          97       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1376    1916       1994    1935      Econonic ratioe
GDP (billions USS)                                                         2.2   i
Gross domestc investmenVGDP                             --                                  Openness of economny
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP                              18.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      .        .
Gross nab onal savings/GDP                      .
Current account balance/GOP                                           .-10.0       Savings -Invetment
Interest payments/GDP                           .                                                 \
Total debt/GDP                                                           147.0
Total debt service/exports                                               13000
Present value of debt/GDP 
Present value of debtfexports                   .                                              Indebtedness
1975-54  1986-96    13914      19315  199644   i
(avramge annual growth)                                                          I      Bosnia and Herzgovlna
GDP                                                                       15.5   .      Lowincome group
GNP per capita                                                                          Lo-icm28.u
Exports of goods and nfs                                                 28.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1375i    1331      1994     1336!5                 ~
(% of GDP)                                                                       I Growth rsts of output and Invesneet  )
Agriculture                                            9.5         ..
Industry                                              43 43.0
Manufacturing                                 .                                    I
Services                                        -    47.5
x -    90 -, --            93-   9.     r
Private consumption                                                                             91   92    93
General govemment consumption                                                                  -GDt   -GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services 
1975-84  1935-65      1994     1335
(average annual gowth)                                                             Growth  of exports  d kporta)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..         ..       ..
Industry
Manufacturing                                 ..
Services                                        ..      ..         ..       ..
Private consumption                             .
General govemment consumpbon                    .                                          0    9j1    02    93    51    96
Gross domestc investment
Imports of goods and non-fador services s                                                      -E,rP5ils  _ lets
Gross natonal product Ed_ _ _                                                                        __ _o           _ _
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estiaas.
Large proportion of data are missing due to scant nd psalial dde In cese of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this earty stge of post-wr perod.
1/1994 GNP figures are not available. For 1995, EC2CO estIates GDP to be USS 2.2 billion and GDP per capita to be USS 520.
The diamonds show four key indicators In tae country (in bold) compared Wvils its Incme-group average. If data ere missing, ft  damond wig
be incomplete.
Bosnia and Herzegovina



21                                                             SCHEDULE C
page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994     1998      lnflauon (%
Domes tiprkes
(% change)                                                                            SDo
Consumer prices                                                   7800      -11.7     too
Implicit GDP deflator                             --       -, 400
Government finance                                                                    200
(% of GDP)                                                                              0 ° i               9        9r
Current revenue                                                                       -200
Current budget balance
Overall surplus/deficit                                                                         -GOP def.  *CPI
TRADE
(noil,Iions US$)                              1975      1985      1994      1995      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                 164      295      3.000
n.s.
2.500     I
n.a.
Manufactures                                                                        2X174
Total imports (cif                                                  889      7        1         I
Food                                                                                100
Capital goods                                                                         500|
Export price index (1987=100)                     --                                              90   91   92   93   94   95
Import price index (1987=100)
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                        .         .         ..                             E.ports m Imprtsb
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985       1994     1995                                        -
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio (3)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                            262      395      0I o I                              . _
Imports of goods and non-factorservices                           1,392    1.146        -1  09   90   91   92   93   94   95
Resource balance                                                 -1.130     -751      -2.
Net factor income                                                  -221     -245       3!
Net current transfers                                               603      394       4 
Current account balance. 
before official transfers                        -        -      -748      -602      7,
Financing items (net)                                               717      644    i
Changes in net reserves                                              3i      -42    -.oi
Memo:
Reserves including gold (miDl. US$)               ..                          22
Conversion rate (local/US$)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1994     1995    F
(millions US$)                                                                        Composition of total debt 198 (mill US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              2,960    3,361
IBRD                                                              546      625
IDA
Total debt service                                                  475      508                               A
IBRD                                                               60       73                              625
IDA 
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                                                                                 F
Official creditors                                                                            1847              E
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment
Portfolio equlty
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                         A - IBRD                      E - Biateral
Disbursements                                                                       B- IDA     D - Other rnultilteral   F - Privae
Principal repayments                                                                c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows
Interest payments
Net transfers
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                         5113/96



22
ANNEX I
Page I of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
I.    An early and robust economic recovery will require effective implementation of sound
macroeconomic policies, structural reforms, and a well-coordinated reconstruction program-important
issues that are the focus of the previous sections. Clearly, such a program will require considerable
external assistance. Based on the joint efforts of the government, the World Bank, the EU, and other
agencies, a reconstruction program requiring a minimum of US$5.1 billion of external financing over the
1996-1998 period is being proposed to the donor community. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina also
inherited a considerable amount of external debt, much of it now in arrears. Unless it addresses its foreign
debt problems, Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be able to normalize its financial relations with creditors,
official or private, thus inhibiting its ability to access the intemational financial resources that will be
needed for longer-term growth. Resolving the debt problem is, therefore, a key issue for restoring
sustainable growth.
A.    Addressing the External Debt Problem
2.    Bosnia and Herzegovina's total external debt at the end of 1995 amounted to US$3.4 billion, of
which about US$2.0 billion is in arrears (Table 1). These debt figures represent the sum of Bosnia and
Herzegovina's share of the former Yugoslavia's total long-term external debts, derived on the basis of final
beneficiary principle for debts whose beneficiaries are identifiable, and its share of nonallocated debts, from
former Yugoslavia, assigned by using Bosnia and Herzegovina's quota share of the former Yugoslavia's
quota in the Intemational Monetary Fund.
3.    Bosnia and Herzegovina's current high and unsustainable debt indicators originate from the
collapse of its economy over the past four years. GDP declined from US$10.6 billion in 1990 to about
US$2.5 billion in 1995, and total exports (including those to other former Yugoslav republics) declined
from US$2 billion to about US$150 million. Debt indicators, using 1995 GDP and trade figures, therefore
look very poor, with the country's ratio of debt to GDP at 134 percent and the ratio of required debt service
to total exports around 116 percent. Clearly, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in no position to service such
levels of debt obligations now or in the near future. The experiences of other countries with reconstruction
in the aftermath of major conflicts strongly suggests that a quick resolution to debt problems such as those
currently plaguing Bosnia and Herzegovina is imnperative.
4.    An effective solution would ideally have two characteristics. First, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in
no position to make any net payments for several years to come. Thus cash flow relief is necessary to
ensure a strongly positive net transfer into Bosnia and Herzegovina. Second, once foreign assistance
declines, access to private capital markets needs to be secured to ensure continued recovery. At current
levels of debt, such renewed access to private markets is out of the question; the current ratio of debt to
GDP is more than twice as high as Mexico's before that country's Brady deal. Thus a debt restructuring
would need to provide not only cash flow relief but would also, desirably, provide significant debt relief so
as to bring the debt-output ratio back to serviceable levels. Without prejudging any final settlement that
might be reached with the Paris and London Clubs, a comprehensive workout would clearly contribute
significantly to creating the conditions needed to restore creditworthiness and to permit private sector
inflows to make a contribution to the reconstruction effort in the outer years.



23
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
5.     A serious problem is that a workout of senior debt alone (such as Paris Club debts), and ahead of
restructuring other debts, often results in benefits for the junior creditors-in this case the commercial debt
holders. The more debt relief from the Paris Club, the less the discount commercial banks are likely to
offer, since the market value of their claims goes up with every dollar the senior debt gets reduced. Unless
the Paris Club package is structured to avoid this outcome, the commercial banks, not Bosnia and
Herzegovina, will be the main beneficiary of any Paris Club deal.
Table 1
Estimated total external debt by creditor; end-1995
(millions of U.S. dollars) .
Creditor           Outstanding debt   In arrears
Multilateral         711               471
IBR.D          625                447
IMF              49                O..
Other            37               24
Paris Club           803                614
LondonClub         1,112               384
Other creditors      735               517
Total              3,361              1,987
6.     One way to deal with this problem is the Polish model, that is, to tranche the Paris Club package
and make the second tranche conditional on there being an equally generous package from the London
Club. In Poland, failure to match by commercial banks would not only have voided the second tranche, it
also would have restored the debt restructured in the first tranche to its original terms. This is a very
serious threat to the commercial banks because of the Paris Club creditors' seniority.
B.    External Financing Requirements
7.     Considerable extemal financing will be needed to normalize Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations
with external creditors, as well as to cover the requirements of the reconstruction program. This
normalization involves both the clearance of outstanding arrears as well as the restructuring and servicing
of remaining debts. An important first step in this direction was already taken on December 20, 1995, with
the clearance of outstanding arrears owed to the International Monetary Fund. On June 14, 1996, the
World Bank's Board of Executive Directors also approved a debt consolidation loan for Bosnia and
Herzegovina that cleared its arrears to the Bank and reduced Bank-related debt service requirements in the
immediate following years. Normalization of relations with other multilateral creditors is also expected to
take place soon. A comprehensive debt workout would be desirable to normalize Bosnia's financial
relations with other official and private creditors. The scenario presented in this section is illustrative, and
it is in no way intended to prejudge the outcome of future negotiations with Bosnia's external creditors in
the Paris and the London Clubs. It shows, however, that a comprehensive debt workout, including a



24
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
substantial net present value reduction on consolidated debt service to Paris Club creditors and a
substantial debt stock reduction with London Club creditors goes a long way to create the conditions
necessary to re-establish Bosnia's creditworthiness for IBRD lending starting in 1998 and private capital
inflows after 2000. Less generous terms would leave Bosnia's creditworthiness more fragile and access to
such flows in question. Key elements of this illustrative scenario are as follows:
*  Clearance of about US$620 million in outstanding loans, including arrears due the World Bank
in mid-June 1996, via their consolidation and refinancing into a new loan with 30 years
maturity including a grace period of 5 years. The Bank also plans to support Bosnia with
some US$400 million of IDA resources over the next 2-3 years, over and above a special
Bosnia and Herzegovina Trust Fund of US$150 million already established by the Bank in
January  1996 on a combination of grant and IDA  terms.   A  net transfer of some
US$450 million from the World Bank Group is anticipated over the next 3-4 years.
*  Clearance of pre-cutoff date arrears to Paris Club creditors at end-1996, via 'Naples terms",
i.e., two-thirds net present value (NPV) reduction on consolidated debt service, and a deferral,
on an exceptional basis, of post-cutoff date debt arrears over a 6 years period, including 3
years of grace.
*  A deeper NPV debt reduction then under Naples terms, at about 80 percent', by London Club
creditors and rescheduling of all the debt to other creditors at Naples terms with a 67 percent
NPV reduction by end- 1997.
8.     Under this scenario, Bosnia and Herzegovina's gross external financing requirements will total
about US$13.9 billion over the period 1996-2000 (Table 2, line 1). The lion's share (US$9.1 billion,
line 1. 1) of this five-year financing requirement comes from the current account deficit, largely driven by
reconstruction needs, and to a lesser extent from other import requirements (humanitarian imports and
private sector imports). The next largest financing requirement (US$2.6 billion, line 1.4) is accounted for
by arrears clearance. Debt service on rescheduled and new debt to multilateral and Paris Club creditors
accounts for about US$1 billion (line 1.2), or 7 percent of the financing requirement. Debt service to
London Club and other commercial creditors, including rollover of debt service in 1996-1997, accounts for
0.6 billion (line 1.3), or 4 percent of the financing requirement, and the accumulation of international
reserves to a minimum precautionary level for about US$0.7 billion (line 1.5), or 5 percent.
9.     These gross financing requirements are projected to be met through a combination of sources.
About US$3.8 billion (line 11.1) of the total financing (27 percent) is assumed to be provided through
official and private unrequited transfers. Official unrequited transfers are assumed to decline over time as
humanitarian assistance is replaced by reconstruction assistance on concessional terms (line I.1a). Private
unrequited transfers (line II. I b) are also expected to decline gradually over tirme, mainly reflecting the
combined evaluation of its two components: emergency assistance needs that are currently addressed by
nongovernmental organizations, which are assumed to decline over time, and private remittances from
Bosnian families working abroad, which are assumed to remain constant over the projection period.
Foreign direct investment inflows are expected to resume starting in 1998 and provide about US$ 0.5
billion financing (line 11.4).
Comprises a 90 percent discount assumed for half of the debt, which is assumed to be bought back at around 10 cents
a dollar, and a rescheduling of the remainder on Naples terms with an NPV reduction of 67 percent. The buy-back component
would require financing of about $65 million which contributes to the financing-gap in 1997.



25
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Table 2. External financing requirements, 1995-2000
millions of U.S. dollars)
1995       1996      1997      1998      1999    2000    96-2000
L Financing needs                                                1,641      3,537    4,355    2,498       1,957   1,507        13,855
1. Current account deficit excluding interest and transfers       953       1,593    2,400    2,171       1,694   1,200        9,057
2. Debt service to multilateral and Paris Club creditors          261         337       104       118       180      223          961
a. On existing debt                                            261        319         72        71        91      110         663
b. On new debt                                                   0          18        32        47        89      113         298
3. Debt service to London Club and other commercial               246        239        243        34        34       34         584
creditorsb
4. Arrears clearancec                                               38      1,218     1,384         0          0       0        2,602
5. Change in gross reserves (+:increase)                          143         150       225       175        50       50          650
11. Financing sources                                           1,640       2,335    2,480    2,250    1,720   1,180            9,965
1 . Unrequited net transfers                                     1,002      1,115       830       700       590      530        3,765
a. Official                                                    377        485       280        190        90       60        1,105
b. Private                                                     625        630        550       510       500      470        2660
2. New financing for reconstructiond                                 0        600     1,650     1,450       930      450        5,080
a. Official transfers forreconstruction                          0        420      1,155     1,015       651      315        3,556
b. New mediun and long tern capital inflows                      0         180      495        435       279      135        1,524
3. WorldBank Consolidation Loan                                      0       621          0         0         0        0         621
4. Foreign direct investment                                         0          0         0       100       200      200          500
5. Exceptional financing                                          440           0         0         0         0        0            0
6. Others'                                                        199           0         0         0         0        0            0
III. Financing gap                                                   0      1,202    1,875        248       237      327        3,889
1. Arrears clearance and debt relief                                0        955      1,563         0         0        0       2,518
a. Rollover/debt relief, London Club and other                    0        239      1563          0         0        0       1,802
comnercial creditors
b. Clearance of arrears to Paris Club                             0        716          0         0         0        0         716
2. World Bank adjustinent lendingf                                   0         90        35        30        30        0          185
3. Remaining financing gapg                                          0        157       278       218       207      327        1187
IV Memo items
1. Total external debt/GDP (%)                                    134          95        54        51        46       42           57
2. Debt service/Total exports (%)h                                 116        102        45        11         11      11           36
a. 1995 is estimated; 1996-2000 are projected.
b. Assumes rollover of debt service in 1996 and 1997 and a debt service at terrns comparable with Naples te-ms thereafter..
c. Includes clearance of arrears to IBRD, and assumes clearance of arrears to other multilateral creditors, including Paris Club ,in 1996 and to London Club and
other commercial creditors by end-1997.
d. Assumes that financing of reconstruction program is fWly secured.
e. Includes use of IMF resources (S45 million), errors and omissions.
f Assumes that the first proposed World Bank structural adjustment credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, wbich is currently under preparation, w4ill be disbursed
in 1996. The World Bank lending program includes two more proposed structural adjustment credits, amounting to $95 million, to be disbursed over 1997-98.
Of course, any World Bank adjustment lending would be conditional on an acceptable macroeconomic program, supported and agreed jointly with the IMF.
g. After clearance of arrears to multilateral creditors, Paris Club, London Club and other commercial creditors, but before balance of payment financing from
IMF, multilateral creditors other than the Bank, and bilateral creditors.
hn. 1995 figure refers to scheduled debt service.
Note: The Bank scenario is illustrative, and it in no way is intended to prejudge the outcome of future negotiations with Bosnia's external creditors in the Paris
and the London Clubs. It shows that a comprehensive debt workout including a substantial net present value reduction on the consolidated service with Paris
Club creditors and a substantial debt stock reduction with London Club creditors goes a long way to create the conditions necessary for renewal of IBRD
lending starting in 1998 and private capital inflows after 2000.
Source: Data provided by Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, the IMF, and World Bank staff estimates.
10.      New  cash  financing  (about US$5.1  billion; line 11.2) by  various creditors in support of the
reconstruction and recovery program would cover forty percent of the total financing requirement, most of



26
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
it on concessional terms. In addition, multilateral creditors, bilateral creditors (including Paris Club
creditors), and commercial creditors (including London Club creditors) are expected to finance about
seventy percent of the remaining US$4.5 billion financing gap (line 11.3 and III) via arrears clearance. The
World Bank adjustment lending in support of the economic reform program would provide additional
financing of about US$0.2 billion2. The remaining financing gap for the 5-year period is above US$1
billion (line 111.3), averaging about US$230 million a year, or 9 percent of the total financing requirements.
It bears repeating, however, that this calculation of the remaining financing gap assumes that financing for
the reconstruction program has already been fully secured and, that a comprehensive debt workout will
have contributed to substantial debt relief as mentioned above. This remaining financing gap would be
covered by balance of payments support from the IMF, multilateral creditors other than the Bank, and
bilateral creditors.
11.    This debt workout scenario illustrates the contribution that both debt service relief and debt stock
reduction can make to the restoration of creditworthiness. Under the scenario, the overall debt paramneters
would indicate a substantial decline in debt and debt service indicators. For example, the ratio of debt to
GDP would fall from 134 percent in 1995 to about 42 percent by 2000, and the composition of debt stock
will be more favorable in terms of the degree of concessionality of the debt terms implied by the remaining
debt stock. With such a strategy, it is possible that a viable medium-term economic program, based on
restoration of country creditworthiness and renewed access to international commercial capital markets,
can be realistically envisaged and sustained growth be expected. Less generous terms would leave Bosnia's
creditworthiness more fragile.
C.    The Macroeconomic Outlook
12.    Given the uncertainty and complexity of implementing this program in the immediate postwar
environment, forecasting the growth outlook is at best a highly tentative exercise. The scenario presented
here is, therefore, only illustrative (Table 3). It assumes that substantial reconstruction financing on
concessional terms and debt relief will be provided by multilateral and bilateral creditors; that considerable
discipline will be maintained in domestic policies for the effective use of external assistance and effective
implementation of the economic reform program; that public sector institutional reforms will proceed well;
and that conditions that allow for a rise in long-term private flows will be in place by the year 2000.
13.    Should these conditions prevail, Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy could start to rebound
strongly. Given the extreme deterioration of public services and infrastructure facilities resulting from the
war, the initial impetus for growth will clearly come from aid- supported reconstruction efforts for at least
the next couple of years: transport, communications, energy supply, and other infrastructure need to be
repaired and hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons need to be resettled and soldiers
demobilized, with attendant housing and employment needs. Private investment is also expected to recover
given the urgent needs for repair and extension of existing businesses and housing. Assuming that long-
term finance will be available, private investment will rebound most likely in light industry, services
(mainly transport, tourism, and financial institutions) and housing construction. The capital requirements
of these investments are relatively small and their dependence on public infrastructure and services is
limited. The agricultural sector, dominated by private smallholders, could also be a candidate for early
recovery if food aid is managed so that it avoids a negative impact on domestic producers. It will take
2      The proposed World Bank adjustment credits are expected to be cofmanced by other creditors. This cofinancing from
other creditors will contribute to filling the financing gap, e.g., cofinancing of US$20 million, on grant terms, has
been offered by the Government of Netherlands for the proposed Credit.



27
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
somewhat longer for trade to return to its prewar export levels. Until basic infrastructure is rehabilitated
and public services are restored, exports are not likely to constitute a significant source of growth.
14.    Experience from other countries similarly afflicted by war suggests that a strong reconstruction
and recovery program could help Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy rebound significantly, by around 35-
40 percent in 1996 and at progressively declining rates thereafter (Table 3, line 1.2). This, however,
requires good progress on the ground in government institution-building, sound policies, and effective
coordination among parties. However, even under this scenario, GDP would only reach close to two-thirds
of its prewar level by 2000. The prewar level of GDP would be recovered in 7-9 years.
15.    As the economy recovers and domestic supply capacity is restored, some of the prewar export
markets are expected to be regained, and exports are projected to recover from their current low base to
about two-thirds of their prewar levels by 2000. Beyond the reconstruction phase, with significant
recovery and freer access to inputs, labor, and capital, normal trade patterns are projected to resume,
leading to a large improvement in the trade balance. Based on these assumptions, the average trade deficit
is projected to decline from about 32 percent of GDP during 1996-2000 to 8 percent in 2001-05 (line 11.7).
16.   It should be underlined once again that if the conditions underlying the above scenario were not in
place, resulting inter alia from a significant shortfall in donor financing for the reconstruction program,
policy slippages in implementation of stabilization and economic reform programs, and/or unfavorable debt
workouts with London and Paris Club creditors, the scenario illustrated here would not be achieved. Such
a development would undoubtedly put at risk the possibility of lasting peace and prosperity in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.



28
ANNFX I
Page 7 of 7
Table 3a
Selected Economic Indicators, 1990-2005
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Ave.        Ave.
1990       1994       1995        1996        1996-       2001-
2000        2005
1. Gross Domestic Product (CGDP)
1. GDP (US$ million)                                      10,633      2,265       2,500      3,425        6,200      12,125
2. Real GDP growth (%)                                        na         na           8          33          25            7
3. Per capita income (U.S. dollars)                        2,429        517        595         815        1,476       2,887
11. External Trade Account
1. Merchandise exports (US$ million)                       1,900         91         152        266          851       2,453
2. Real merchandise export growth (1%)                        na         na          64         70           55           13
3. Share of merchandise exports in (GDP (%)                   19          4           6           8          13          20
4. Merchandise imports (US$ million)                       1,700        894       1,082       1,796       2,631       3,408
a. Reconstruction related                                    0          0          0         459         782            0
b. Humanitarian and in-kind aid                              0       561         459         462          183           0
c. Other                                                 1,700       333         623         875        1,665       3,406
5. Real merchandise import growth (%)                         na         na          18         61           21           4
6. Share of merchandise imports in GDP(%)                     16         39          43         52           45          28
(Reconstruction  related  and  other imports-            na         15         25          39           41          28
excluding humanitarian imports)
7. Trade balance (in % of GDP)                                 3         na         -37         -45         -32           -8
III. External Current Account
1. Current account balance (in % of GDP)                      na         -8          -5        -20          -22          -2
(Excluding official transfers)                              na        -22        -20         -34          -27          -2
IV International Reserves
1. Total reserves (in months of imports)                      na         na         0.8         1.5         2.4         3.0
(in months of reconstruction  related  and             na         na         1.3         2.0          2.5         3.0
other imports-excluding humanitariani)
a. 1990-95 are estimated; 1996-2005 are projected.
na: not available
Note: The Bank scenario is illustrative, and it in no way is intended to prejudge the outcome of future negotiations with Bosnia's extemal creditors
in the Paris and London Clubs. It shows that a comprehensive debt workout including a substantial net present value reduction on consolidated debt
service with Paris Club creditors and a substantial debt stock reduction with London Club creditors goes a long way to create the conditions
necessary for renewal of IBRD lending starting in 1998 and private capital inflows after 2000, and for achievement of a sustainable growth.
Source: Data provided by Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, the IMF, and World Bank estimates.






29
ANNEX 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Note: The Letter was signed by the authorities on May 15, 1995. Since that time, all core actions
associated with the TAC have been implemented. Significant progress in the implementation of other
important policy actions has also been achieved, as described in this Letter of Development Policy.
However, there has been some slippage in the implementation of some aspects of the policy program, owing
to the difficult economic and political circumstances of the present period. For example, some of the
actions referred to in the Letter have taken place at a later date than initially expected and some others
remain to be implemented. Of the core actions, unification of the payments system was implemented in
mid-August, 1996 rather than at the end of May 1996 as initially expected.  Of the other actions
encompassed by the Government's program, some aspects of the privatization program, including the
design of a restitution program and a plan for the resolution of claims on the State, have not vet fullv taken
place, although draft laws leading to the finalization of the programs will be completed in August. The
establishment of the Federation Pension Fund and the Federation Health Fund has also not yet been
implemented, owing to a lack of resources to finance the Federation's payments into these funds. The
Government expects to cover these contributions using donor resources provided in the form of BOP and
fiscal support, including the proposed Credit, until tax revenues sufficiently expand to cover its
contribution. As the financing sources become available, the authorities plan to move in these areas.



30
ANNEX 11
Page I of 13
IDA Transition Assistance Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina
Dated May 15, 1996
Mr. J. Wolfensolh
President
World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washiligton, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensolhni:
1.     As you know, following her declaration of independence from the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia in March 1992, Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered from a brutal war which lasted until October
1995, when the Dayton Peace Agreements were initialled, leading to an immediate cease-fire. In December
1995, the parties signed a comprehensive Peace Accord in Paris, including a new Constitution designed to
initiate the reintegrationi of the country. Since thien, a series of additional agreements have been signed to
move the unification process forward.
2.     The Dayton-Paris Peace Accords set out an institutional framework for rebuilding our country.
Under the Accords. Bosnia and Herzegovina will remain a single State, within internationally recognized
borders, consistling of two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska.
The Federation will be constituted on the basis of cantons and municipalities which will have major
responsibilities in social services and social welfare. The blueprint laid out in the Accords implies
substanitial chaniges to the legislative and policy-making institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Rebuilding Bosnia and Herzegovina: Three Tasks
3.     The conclIsion of the Dayton-Paris Peace Accords and the cessation of hostilities have now placed
econoiic recovery at center stage. In this endeavor, we face three major tasks. First, there is the huge
requiremenlt ol reconstruclion aind recovery from  damage sustained during the war.  Bridges, roads,
housinlg. water, and sewerage facilities need to be repaired and public services restored. Refugees need to
be resettled, and soldiers need to be demobilized. Second., there is the need to build a new governance
,s1rucsture for the counitrv. The blueprint laid out in the Dayton-Paris Accords needs to be further elaborated
and implemented. and institutions have to be restructured or created for all levels of government. Third,
there is the ullfillished task of transition to a Olarket econo.y, which requires both the adaptation of the role
of the state to the development of market-based laws and institutions, and the privatization of assets. The
war interrUpted the process of economic transformation that had already begun elsewhere. Privatization of
enterprises, banks and housilng has to be initiated, a modern financial system needs to be developed, and a
body of laws and institutions appropriate for the fuLictioning of a market economy needs to be put in place.



31
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 13
Implementing Reconstruction Program
4.     Significant effort has already been invested in this regard. With assistance from the World Bank
and other agencies, we have designed a three-year emergency reconstruction program which totals about
US$5.1 billion to support reconstruction in infrastructure, social sectors, and agriculture and industry.
Implementation of this program has been recently initiated. To ensure effective and timely implementation
of the reconstruction program, we have established a Board for Economic Recovery which consists of the
Prime Ministers of the State and the Federation, Ministers of Finance of the State and Federation, the
Governor of the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. and other key ministers in the governments of
the State and the Federation. At the Federation level, we also established an Office for Coordination for
reconstruction.  To ensure sufficient financing for this reconstruction program, we have initiated, in
cooperation with the World Bank and EU, a series of donor conferences to publicize this program and to
mobilize needed resources. The first set of such meetings has already taken place in Brussels, Paris, Rome
and Sarajevo in the last few months, and secured donor commitments of more than US$1.8 billion for
reconstruction programs in 1996.
Building a New Governance Structure
5.     We recognize that the constitutional arrangements of the Peace Accords are the only framework in
which the people of BH -- Bosniacs, Serbs, Croats, and others -- can work together to their mutual benefit.
This being our overriding objective, we have started to build the multi-level structure of Government
envisaged in the Constitution, and are determined to make it function effectively and efficiently. The
pivotal task at this stage is to strengthen the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- demonstrating to all
groups the advantages of rebuilding BH as a multi-ethnic state. Good governance in the Federation is
critical for the reconstruction effort, and for a successful transitioni to a market economy. It also gives
inpetus to the cooperation with the Republika Srpska on which the reintegration of the whole economy
depends.
6.     We consider no less important the establishment of effective State level institutions because the
functions only they can serve under the Constitution are both vital for each entity and indispensable for their
mutual cooperation. As specified in the Peace Accords, the old Republic/Federation Government was
formally separated into a State Government and a Federation Government in late January, 1996, with
responsibilities divided as prescribed. Specifically, the State Ministry of Finance has assumed sole
responsibility for international finance and for customs policy, and the Federation Ministry of Finance for
tax and customs administration. In addition, we are working to form a new State Central Bank as the sole
authority for monetary policy and currency issuance in BH, and on a Federation bank supervisory agency
(Federal Banking Agency).



32
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 13
Strengthening the Federation
7.     The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was already established in 1994 following the
Washington Agreement that ended the conflict between Bosniac and Croat forces.  The Federation
Constitution prescribes a cantonal structure and gives a general outline of revenue and expenditure
assignments between the levels of government. During 1995, a significant body of legislation was adopted,
including a banking law and various indirect taxation laws. However, the parties faced difficulties in
agreeing on precise cantonal borders and the critical details of intergovernmental fiscal relations. In the
absence of such agreements, key institutions -- including the tax and customs administration and the
payments bureau system-- have remained separate, and federal legislation has not been implemented.
8.     The Joint Statement on the Federation issued on February 18, 1996 in Rome the Sarajevo
Agreement of March 30, 1996 and the Bonn/Petersberg Agreement of April 23, 1996 have provided a new
impetus to making the Federation a reality. We have also received valuable technical assistance from the
staffs of the World Bank and the IMF, which has helped us to resolve critical issues in the short term, and to
start developing plans for medium-temi reforms of governance. The first important area concerns cantonal
borders. A draft Canton Law has been prepared. The Federation Parliament has not passed the legislation
as yet. but we are confident that this draft will be finalized and will be passed soon. In the meantime, a
number of cantonis have been formed and their governors selected. Some revenues are being transferred to
the cantons. The second area requiring movement is the fiscal system, including the detailed blueprint of
intergovernmental fiscal relations that will determine the assignment of revenue and expenditure
responsibilities to each level of government. In this regard, we are preparing an interim solution for 1996 to
allow for adoption of budgets for all levels of government for the remainder of 1996. In addition, we are
starting to work on a permanent tax framework that will be complemented by major reforms. We describe
the interim actions and the intended reform in these areas below. The third area concerns the establishment
and functioning of unified federal institutions. Key actions for reintegrating Federation institutions include
the following:
9.     Formation of a Unified Federal Customs Administration (FCA). Merging the existing two separate
customs administrations on the territory of the Federation is essential for a viable Federation budget and
economy. Already in early 1995, we harmonized the tariff codes, the schedule of excise duty rates for
imported goods, and customs procedures, and initiated cooperation between the two administrations. On
February 28, 1996, we appointed the Director of the FCA and his deputy. Other senior managers were
appointed in March, 1996. In early April, 1996 we: (i) eliminated the internal borders and moved all
customs checks to the external border of the Federation part of BH; (ii) unified operations of the two
cListoms administrations; and (iii) accepted a team of international observers organized by the European
Union to monitor Federation customs procedures and operations, including the absence of internal border
checks and the flow of customs revenues to the Federation budget. The temporary activity of these
observers will be critical to building confidence that correct and fair operations of the customs system are in
place. By the end of May, 1996, we will institutionalize the mechanism for customs revenues to flow to the
Federation budget, usinig accounts in the payments bureau system. Furthermore, we have started planning
for the modernization of the customs system with support from the World Bank, the IMF, the World
Customs Organization and USAID. By end 1996, we expect to complete the preparation stage and begin
with the modernization of the system. We plan to seek World Bank support in this effort.



33
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 13
10.    Formation of a Unified Federal Tax Administration (FTA). Merging the existing two separate tax
administrations, and building the cantonal structure of tax administration is critical for the Federation
economy. The new tax administration must be partly centralized to ensure that a professional structure is in
place, while ensuring that the structure will have sufficient flexibility to allow for the unique arrangements
of the Federation. In April 1996, we appointed the FTA director and his deputy. By the end of May 1996,
we will have completed, with the assistance of the World Bank and the IMF, a draft law on FTA and a draft
law on distribution of tax revenues between the Federation and cantons. Before the end of 1996. we expect
to begin applying the tax laws and the tax administration law of the Federation. By that time, we shall also
have completed the preparation stage for the modernization of tax administration, and will have begun
implementing modernization plans. We intend to request assistance from the World Bank in this endeavor.
11.    Unification of the Payments Bureau Systems. Until recently, there were no linkages between the
banking and payments systems in the two areas of the Federation. We established such linkages In
November, 1995, making it possible to effect transactions in DM directly between the two areas. However,
we recognize that full unification of the payments systems is necessary to complement the unification of the
tax and customs administrations, and to help establish a unified financial system in the Federation. To that
end, in early March, we appointed the director and his deputy for a unified Federal Payments Bureau (FPB).
By the end of May, 1996. a unique unified payments bureau system will be in place. Over the next few
months, the FPB management will develop plans for harmonization of procedures in all branches and
modernization of equipment as appropriate. Implementation of such plans will begin before the end of the
year.
12.    Establishment of the Federal Banking Agency. Our immediate priority in the financial sector is
establishing the needed legal, regulatory and institutional framework to develop a viable commercial
banking system. We initiated legal and regulatory reforms after independence, and currently have several
draft laws under preparation in the banking sector. These include a Federal Banking Agency law that was
submitted to Parliament in March, 1996, and which we expect to resubmit and have ratified no later than the
end of May, 1996. This law will provide the legal framework for bank supervision, a precondition for a
safe and sound banking system in the Federation.
Functioning of the State and Re-integration of the Two Entities
13.    As mentioned above, we have already formed a State Government comprising Ministries of
Foreign Affairs, Finance, Justice, Refugees and Migration, and External Trade and Communications. These
ministries have assumed the functions designated to the State in the Constitution.  In addition, the
Constitution mandates the formation of a new Central Bank as the sole authority for issuing currency and
conducting monetary policy in BH.
14.    Under the Constitution, the new State Central Bank will function as a currency board for the first
six years, issuing a new domestic currency for use throughout BH at a fixed exchange rate in exchange for
increases in international reserves. The establishment of the Central Bank must take place soon after the
September 1996 parliamentary elections for the two entities and the State, but can be started before the
elections if all parties agree. We are maintaining the monetary and fiscal policies in the Federation
necessary for the proper establishment of this institution, and have begun a dialogue with the Republika
Srpska aimed at putting in place equally strong financial policies in that entity. As these conditions are
attained and agreement is reached on a timetable for starting the new Central Bank, we will seek the



34
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 13
assistance of the IMF for its establishment. We hope that this will be possible ahead of the September 1996
elections. We also expect to coordinate with the Republika Srpska on specific issues related to bank and
enterprise privatization.
15.    During the meeting of the Joint Interim Commission in Banja Luka in late February, we reached
agreement on the establishment of a working group on the payments system. We expect that the payments
bureau systems of the Federation and the Republika Srpska will initially be linked in the way the separate
payments bureau systems of the two areas of the Federation were linked in November, 1995. This would
allow direct transactions to be effected between the areas of the Federation and the Republika Srpska. In
the same meeting, we also reached agreement on establishing a working group on customs systems. We
will seek to reach agreement on a common open trade regime without quantitative restrictions and a
reduced divergence of tariff rates. In this context, we will address the discrepancies that exist between the
trade regime of the Federation and that of the Republika Srpska.  Also, the Federation Customs
Administration will be ready to cooperate on the adoption of common customs procedures as the Republika
Srpska establishes customs checkpoints on the eastern borders of BH. In the longer term, and upon full
non-nalization and integration of the relations between the two entities, we intend to reconsider the issue of
customs administration, in a manner consistent with the Constitutional provisions under the Peace Accords.
Reintegration and Reform of Public Finance
16.    The Peace Accords and State and Federal Constitutions provide an overall framework for
development of a fiscal system for the State, the Federation, the cantons and the municipalities. However,
this framework has yet to be structured into an operative organization with appropriate laws, regulations and
fiscal institutions. Institutional reintegration will have to be complemented by additional effort in
reintegration and reform in budget, tax, intergovernmenital relations, pensions and health care system.
Budget Preparation. Tax Policv and Intergovernmental Relations
17.    1996 Budgets. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been operating with three budgets: one each for the
Republika Srpska, the Bosniac-majority area, and the Croat-majority area. Following the Peace Accords,
State and Federation budgets were outlined in collaboration with multilateral institutions. We plan to
establish independent budgets for 1996, though the budgets have yet to be adopted and the governments are
operating with temporary budgets. At this point we have developed draft budgets for every level of
government. We also have a draft budget law covering procedures and operations that is being considered
by the Federation Parliament. The budgets to be passed will specify the distribution of revenues and
expenditures among the State. Federation, cantons and municipalities for 1996. The payments bureau will
distribute tax revenues according to these rules. The Federation budget law will also spell out a mechanism
for managing revenues both for cantons that are operative and for cantons that have yet to be set up. This
mechanism will protect cantonal and municipal revenues, and will guarantee continuity in the provision of
public services. During 1996 we also plan to develop needed rules, regulations and procedures to
effectively operate the budget, administer taxes, and conduct normal treasury functions.
18.    Tax Policyv. Within the Federation two divergent sets of tax laws developed over the last few years.
The Federation must apply a uniform set of tax laws throughout the Federation territory. An effort has
already begun to initiate tax policy reform as one component of the Federation Government's policy design.
In 1996 a special working group will review current legislation, make any necessary revisions, and adopt



35
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 13
appropriate rules for taxation throughiout the Federation. The intent of all reforms is to structure the tax
system to accomplish two main objectives: (i) to make it consistent with principles of a market economy,
which includes minimizing distortions in the allocation of resources and limiting opportunities for evasion
and rent seekiig: and (ii) to establish a coherenit set of Federation tax rules that will result in an internally
consistent structure.
19.    Development of precise tax laws will occur in coordinationi with work on: (i) assignmenits of
revenues and responsibilities amonlg the levels of government (fiscal federalism); and (ii) design of tax
administration. Tax laws will be presented to the Federation Parliament during the second half of 1996.
Cantons, as they are established, are expected to introduce complemiienitary tax legislation within the
framework established by Federationl legislation. The Federation Government will be empowered to ensure
cantonl laws are consistent with the free movement of resources and the principles of a market economy.
Any conflicts between the cantons and the Federation will be settled by the Constitutional Court. We
expect simplification to minimize preferential treatment for individual taxpayers.
20.    Current income tax and social security contr-ibutioln rates are amonig the highest of the region. We
will review how the combined personal income tax and social security contributions affect the incentives
provided to individuals to participate in the fomial economy. We plan to reduce the level of wage tax rates,
while relying increasingly on indirect taxation for public revenue. We anticipate continued reliance on a
schedule income tax at the Federation level. However, we will seek to set the framework for global income
taxation to accompany the growth of the market economy. We expect other tax policy changes to be
adopted after 1996. For example, the Federation expects to continiue relyinig on excise and sales taxes for
indirect taxation, but we will seek to introduce a VAT at the State level at the earliest possible time.
21.    There are very strong advantages to charging fees for services such as urban transport, electricity,
water, natural gas, and others. All governmenlts will seek to finance the provision of public services through
user fees so as to minimize the reliance on federal or canton taxes and to encourage efficient consumption
of services.
22.    Intergovernmiental Fiscal Relations. The cantons will be the foundation of the Federation. A law
determining both the number of cantons and their boundaries has been developed and will soon be passed
by the Federation Parliament. Cantonls have already begun certain activities while we wait on passage of
the law. Based on the distribution of responsibilities defined by the Dayton Accords, the Federation
Ministry of Finance and cantoni staffs will prepare finial budgets for individual cantons. By mid-1996, the
cantons in operation will have approved their 1996 budgets. On a parallel track, the Federation Government
will work to prepare a stable assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities among levels of
government. On the expenditure side, the State and Federation Governments will seek to bring service
delivery as close as possible to the final users. Thus, cantons and municipalities are expected to be major
participants in service delivery. The main objective for assignmient of revenue ownership is to provide
sufficient financing  for service delivery  at each  level of government.   A  Federation  law  on
intergovernmenital relations or public finance will be presented to the Federation Parliament for approval
before the end of 1996. and will serve as the basis for 1997 budgets. Assistance from the World Bank will
be sought to assist with work in intergovernmental finance.



36
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 13
23.    To support timely and sound development of the federal system, the Federation Government will
establish, on a permanent basis, a Commission on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. The Commission's
structure and responsibilities will be outlined and the Commission will be operative by June 30, 1996. A
first task of the Commission will be to support the government in the design of the legislative framework
for fiscal federalism.
Reintegrating the Pension System in the Federation
24.    At the present time, we are left with a dual pension system in the Federation that developed over the
last few years. In one system, pensions are paid at a flat rate of DM 65. In the other system, pensions are
paid at an average rate of around DM 11.4 with variation in individual pensions related to years of service
and pre-pension earnings. The pensions provided under this system have diminished continuously as a
percentage of the average wage. On the revenue side, the contribution rate for one plan is 17.5 percent of
gross wages, while the contribution rate for the other plan is 24.5 percent. Further, one system is constituted
as a separate fund while the other has been combined into the government budget.
25.    Thus, the current system faces very difficult problems: (i) extremely low levels of pensions that are
below the poverty line for most pensioners; (ii) large disparities between the two systems, both of which are
financially weak; (iii) contribution rates that discourage employment and encourage evasion. Consequently,
our immediate challenge is to find the means to finance a minimum pension for all pensioners in the
Federation on a uniform basis. Our second challenge is to institute a program of broader pension reforn.
26.    We have started a process to accomplish these goals. We have established a working group
consisting of representatives from the territories of the Federation to draft documents describing and
assessing the problems in the current situation. We intend to establish, in 1996, a Federation Pension Fund
that will provide a miminum flat rate pension for all pensioners in the Federation, while also observing the
Rome Agreement that calls for the maintainance of the present benefits level for those beneficiaries in the
Croat-majority areas.  Over the longer period, we will aim to provide uniform benefits packages to all
pension beneficiaries in the Federation. We will seek financial and technical assistance from the donor
community, including the World Bank, to help design and finance the Federation Pension Fund.
27.    A further aspect of pension reform will be to design a second tier of supplementary pensions over
and above the flat-rate benefit. The new Constitution provides considerable flexibility in determining
which level of government can take responsibility for different pension programs. Consequently, the
development of the second pension tier may take on a variety of forms. Finally, as our economy recovers,
the financial system develops, and wage levels increase, we anticipate that our population may want to
supplement both types of governmental pensions with additional benefits from private plans. Consequently,
at some point in 1998, we anticipate developing legislation to regulate this third tier of pensions. We would
also like to request the assistance of the World Bank in the design of the private pension system.
Reintegrating the Health Finance System in the Federation
28.    In the health care sector as elsewhere, we face a triple challenge. We must rehabilitate and
reconstruct the sector's physical infrastructure, create a new governance structure in the aftermath of the
war, and continue fundamental sectoral reforms that are needed as part of the transition to a market-oriented
economy.



37
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 13
29.    In the short term, we intend to secure sufficient resources to ensure universal access to emergency
and basic health services and to maintain an adequate referral network to a limited range of more
specialized care, and to strengthen priority areas in public health, particularly prevention and control of
communicable diseases. In parallel, we will design and implement a thorough restructuring of health
finance. The reforms will make the sector more cost-effective and fiscally sustainable by focusing on
effective primary health care, a streamlined hospital subsector, and new methods of paying providers. We
will introduce modest co-insurance for some services, including (non-donated) outpatient pharmaceutical
prescriptions.
30.    We intend to establish a three-tiered system of health insurance. The first tier will ensure that all
people have access to a Federation-specified package of basic health care services that is uniform across the
Federation. At the option of each canton, a second compulsory tier would provide coverage for a canton-
specified supplementary package of additional services. This second tier would be financed by a mandatory
payroll tax. A third tier of voluntary private insurance, financed by private premiums, will cover enhanced
amenities of care and additional services not included under the compulsory tiers.
31.    Compulsory insurance will be managed and administered at the cantonal level. Nevertheless, this
will occur within Federation guidelines.  For example, co-payments in one tier of the insurance
arrangements could not be covered by another tier. UJniform data reporting requirements for health services
utilization, for health revenue and expenditure patterns, and for standard indicators of health sector inputs,
outcomes, and management would apply to all cantons. Other guidelines would relate to service use outside
the canton in which an individual is insured and to the operation of cantonal insurance organizations.
32.    The first tier will be funded through a Federation Health Fund, to be established in July 1996. The
Fund will be financed from two sources. First, a nominal contribution from the payroll tax will be paid into
a Federation Health Fund. Second, matching transfers from the budget, up to a limited amount per month,
could be made to the Fund. The combined funds from both sources will be divided on a per capita basis and
returned to the cantons, to be used for financing basic health care services under Tier I of the new insurance
arrangements. We will ensure that any new health insurance legislation provides for the continued
existence and functioning of this fund.
Stimulating Growth and Employment by Relaunching Economic Reforms
33.    Employment growth and increased production will be stimulated by expansion of private sector
activity and the reconstruction program. To support private sector development, domestic policies need to
stress macroeconomic stability, and structural reforms which strengthen institutions and stimulate private
sector development. As one aspect of these policies, we intend to pursue a series of reforms in the
enterprise and banking sectors. These include: (i) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework to
promote investment in the real sector, and safe and sound practices in the banking sector; (ii) introducing
transparent structures to accelerate the reorganization and privatization of banks and enterprises in support
of a market-based economy; and (iii) encouraging the entry of private firms and banks into the marketplace
to stimulate competition and efficiency. A series of issues regarding the settlement of claims, both
domestically and internationally, will need to be resolved for real private sector growth to occur. In the
meantime, we intend to pursue a reform strategy that accelerates these developments, understanding that
some issues will take time before a satisfactory resolution can be achieved.



38
ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 13
Privatization of Enterprises and Housing. the Settlement Meclianism and Restitution
34.    We are committed to implemiientation of a strong program of structural reform in the enterprise and
banking sectors. We recognize that the current structure of ownership and governance in socially-owned,
mixed, and State-owned enterprises can substantially impede the response of enterprises to the new
incentives associated with a market economy. Therefore, our pre-eminent objective in the enterprise sector
is to stimulate new private entry across a broad range of induIstry, trade and services, and to privatize
enterprises currently operating in these sectors. We are making important progress in developing the legal
and institutional framework to accelerate private sector development and to foster competition. Of critical
Importance to this endeavor is the resolution of claims existing between Government. enterprises, banks and
individuals to work out and pave the way for rapid privatization.
35.    Privatizing Enterprises.  The rapid privatization of socially- and State-owned enterprises is a
centerpiece of our reform strategy. Under existing legislationi, we have made modest progress in the partial
sale of social property, in the corporatization of socially-owned enterprises, and in the establishment of joint
ventures with majority private ownership. However, it is clear that we must now take more active steps to
accelerate ownership transfonrationi.
36.    To this end, about a year ago. we forned an "Expert Privatization Team" to review privatization
issues and options, and to prepare initial drafts of the necessary supporting legislation, including the Law on
the Privatization of Enterprises, the Privatization Agency Law, the Restitutioni Law and the Housing
Privatization Law. The Expert Privatization Team has had an opportunity to meet with privatization experts
from other reforming economies as well as with a team fiom the World Bank. Many issues have been
resolved. Nevertheless, important and difficult ilstitutional issues remain. These include institutional
arrangements for privatization, such as: (i) where, in the G,overnment, responsibility for oversight of the
privatization process should lie: and (ii) the allocationi of responsibilities between the Federal agency and
the cantonal agencies. Other outstaniding  issues relating to the framework and strategy  for the
implementation of privatization include (i) the selection of imiodes/methods of privatization (e.g., auctions,
direct sales, share offerings) for particular transactionis, and the degree of standardization of the process; (ii)
the identification of who wi1l be the driving force behinld the implemenitationi of privatization (what group
will have the incentives to take the initiative); (iii) wh1at range of enterprises will be included, and which
will be targeted first, and (iv) development of effective procedures for preparing enterprises for
privatization (corporatization). WAle are striving to develop a procedure for establishing an initial balance
sheet for enterprises that wiil sever enterprise ownershilp of banks, and thus relieve both of the inertia
inherent in these old relationships. Finally, we recogiize the importance of taking steps to educate the
public to make them fully aware of our privatization objectives, and to convince them of our commitment to
ensure that the process is transparent and fair. We have had detailed discussions with World Bank staff and
other advisors on all of these issues. We are proposing to use techilical assistance funds allocated under the
Emergency Recovery Project to further assist us In our deliberations, to support the work of the Federation
Expert Team, and, subsequenitly, to support the establishment of the Federal and Cantonal Privatization
agencies. We anticipate that outstanding policy issues will be clarified, and that the Privatization Agency
Law will be presented by the end of May, 1996.



39
ANNEX 11
Page IO of 13
37.    Settling Claims. As noted above, we are undertaking our economic reform program with severely
limited fiscal resources, in part because we are striving to resolve our financial obligations, both domestic
and external. Some domestic obligations are held directly by the Government (such as wage or pension
arrears), and others are held by socially-owned banks (such as frozen foreign currency deposits). We are
also considering the issuance of new claims to settle some restitution claims. To settle all of these claims
from available fiscal resources is well beyond our capacity. To limit fiscal recourse in the settlement of
such claims, we are seriously considering the issuance of certificates (either physical or non-physical) for
these claims, which could then be used exclusively for purchasing assets undergoing privatization. The
virtue in this approach is that it would effectively cap the liabilities with the value of assets assigned to the
process and relieve the budgetary pressures. Depending on the extent of assets assigned to this process, we
are also considering the issuance of a "universal voucher" to citizens to mobilize support for the
privatization program, to increase liquidity for privatization purchases, and in some measure to recognize
the population's contribution to the capital stock. We recognize that the assets available for settling claims
are limited, and we must balance the claims and assets included to provide a reasonable value for all claims
included. The allocation of housing assets for this purpose would support the resolution of a large portion
of claims. We intend to obtain agreement on the means of resolution of claims and other settlement
concepts, and to detennine whicih assets and which claims will be included in the process by end June 1996.
The elements of the proposed settlement process may be embedded in specific legislation on restitution,
housing and enterprise privatization, and the reorganization of banks, or it may be provided for in umbrella
legislation on the settlement concept. In either case, provisions will have to be outlined clearly and
conlsistently to assure a workable process.
38.    Restitution. In the period after World War 11 until 1966, a great deal of privately-owned property
was nationalized by all levels of Government. Where such claims can be established to the satisfaction of
the competent authorities, we intend to make restitution. Where possible without major disruption, the
original asset will be returned to honafide claimants or their heirs. Hlowever, in most cases, we anticipate
that restitution will be effected through financial compensation. Due to the urgent need to limit the fiscal
impact, we are carefully considering the valuation methodology, as well as considering the issuance of
claims rather than cash to fonner own1ers. The conversioni of financial restitution claims into "certificates"
used to purchase assets being privatized would effectively cap the value of the claims at the value of assets
used for these purposes. We intend to limit the negative impact of possible restitution claims on other
economic reforms including privatization. Therefore, we intend to design and announce our restitution
program (which will specify the categories of eligible assets, and establishi dates by which all claims must
be submitted) by end June 1996.
Banking Sector Reform
39.    We are working to develop a privately-owned, market-based commercial banking system. Banking
sector reform will require: (i) an improved legal and regulatory framework supported by technical
assistance to enhance supervisory and institutional capacity; (ii) bank reorganization and privatization,
focusing on a change in ownership and incentive structures for better financial intermediation and
management, and (iii) the entry and development of new private banks to respond to the needs of a
changing economy that is increasinigly based on private ownership and small-scale operations. In the short
term, the injection of new credit into the enterprise sector to initiate the recovery should be consistent with
the overall framework for banking sector development and macro stability. In the medium term, it is
expected that achievement of these three objectives will provide the necessary framework for a competitive



40
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
private banking sector able to provide much of the financing required by private enterprises as the economy
recovers and grows.
40.   Improving the Legal and Institutional Environment. Our immediate priority is establishing the
needed legal, regulatory and institutional framework to develop a viable commercial banking system. We
have several draft laws under preparation in the banking sector. These include a Federal Banking Agency
law that was submitted to Parliament in March, 1996, and which we expect to have ratified no later than the
end of May, 1996. This law will provide the legal framework for bank supervision. In addition, new
prudential banking regulations (e.g., licensing, capital adequacy, loan classification, connected lending,
foreign exchange, credit policy, resolution, liquidation) are necessary. These efforts will have to include
adoption of new accounting standards in line with international practices. We will work to draft such
regulations, with initial regulations drafted by August 15, 1996 and final promulgation of regulations by
December 31, 1996. Further, a new law addressing deposit insurance is needed to deal with bank resolution
and to restore public confidence in banking institutions. We will request technical assistance and training
from the World Bank and others to help us with the drafting of these laws and regulations, and with the
organizational structure, staffing requirements, information systems, training and other needs of the
independent Federal Banking Agency.
41.    Reorganization and Privatization of Banks. To achieve a competitive commercial banking system,
we are moving to restructure and privatize socially-owned banks while encouraging the entry of new private
banks. The restructuring and privatization of socially-owned banks involves three major components: (i)
the carve-out or removal of foreign exchange-denominated liabilities from bank balance sheets, as well as
assets related to the former Republic of Yugoslavia and non-performing assets not capable of being
restructured; (ii) the prompt work-out or restructuring of recoverable assets through a time-bound work-out
period; and (iii) subsequent privatization, consolidation or liquidation. The carve-out of foreign exchange-
denominated liabilities and assets related to the former Yugoslavia is expected to result in a major reduction
of existing banking system assets, primarily held by the two largest socially-owned banks. The carve-out is
expected to proceed as follows. First, assets (claims on the former National Bank of Yugoslavia) and
"matched" frozen foreign currency deposit accounts will be separated from the banks' balance sheets, with
the "assets" transferred to the government for resolution or final liquidation, and the deposit account
liabilities transferred to a settlement mechanism linked to the resolution of claims through housing and
enterprise privatization. Second, banks will transfer other assets along with matched foreign currency
borrowings which are incapable of being restructured to the government after a six-month work-out period.
Technical assistance will be sought from the World Bank and others to strengthen bank policies,
procedures, management and systems, and to devise privatization strategies focused on attracting fresh
capital for these "new" and reorganized banks. A definitive bank reorganization and privatization program
will be enacted, taking into account capital adequacy requirements and other considerations. We intend to
merge or liquidate banks that cannot meet these requirements.
42.    Along with bank reorganization and privatization, we are encouraging the growth of new, prudently
managed, and well capitalized private banks. More than 20 private banks have emerged in recent years,
primarily engaging in transfer activities. However, these banks have virtually no experience in lending to
production and processing enterprises in agriculture and industry. Therefore, they will need assistance with
credit evaluation and risk assessment as lending shifts to the primary and secondary sectors for investments
that require longer periods for payback. We intend to utilize technical assistance and training resources to
improve the quality of management and systems in these new private banks.



41
ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 13
43.    Bank Reorganization and Linkage to Real Sector Privatization and Claims Resolution. Corporate
ownership of insolvent banks by enterprises will be eliminated by the reorganization of these troubled,
socially-owned banks. The government will acquire control of these banks for a brief work-out period prior
to their privatization, while preserving the banks' loans and equity interests in important local enterprises.
Banks' retention of loans to and equity interests in these enterprises will be subject to the banking law,
regulations of the Federal Banking Agency, and safe and sound banking practices. This approach will
facilitate the restructuring of banks and enterprises, enhance bank viability after restructuring, and increase
the value of their equity to the privatization process. The short work-out period will permit these banks to
keep recoverable assets on the balance sheet, with the balance of unrecoverable foreign currency-
denominated loans transferred to the Government for final resolution. We intend to request technical
assistance from the World Bank and others to help us with the process of netting out claims between banks
and enterprises (in connection with bank supervisors).
44.   In the coming months, banking and enterprise reforms will include removing the negative impact of
frozen foreign exchange deposit liabilities and inherited bad assets. There are approximately US$1.5-2.0
billion in frozen foreign currency account claims of households which are currently on the balance sheets of
our banks. We plan to extinguish these claims by offering certificates or some other form of non-cash
compensation in lieu of such deposits, which citizens can then use to purchase housing or equity stakes in
enterprises. The transfer of these privatization values to depositors will extinguish their claims on the
banks.
45.   In sorting out inherited bad assets (as with foreign exchange deposit liabilities), we recognize that
there are virtually no fiscal resources available to cover past claims. We also realize that for FRY-related
claims, banks cannot adequately deal with what remains an issue between/among sovereign nations. The
Government will serve as the administrative clearinghouse for claims which involve exposure to
international financial institutions, and bilateral and commercial creditors. Regarding foreign currency-
denominated loans transferred to the Government, proceeds received (if any) could be used to contribute to
a partial payment of outstanding obligations. We view this as a possibility by having major banks pursue
recovery beyond the work-out phase on an agency basis, for which banks would collect recovery-based
fees. However, we also realize that pursuing old claims may not be commercially feasible or economically
justified under the current circumstances. Therefore, it is not expected that recovery efforts would extend
much beyond the short work-out phase allowed for the large socially-owned banks. We plan to request
technical assistance from the World Bank and others to assist us with these tasks.
Labor Market Reform
46.    Our labor market inherited many distortions from the past. The war time situation only aggravated
the rigidity of the system, either through additional legal restrictions or further fragmentation of institutions.
We realize that unless fundamental reform in the labor market is undertaken, there will be a continued
burden that will only impede private sector development, reorganization and privatization of state and
socially-owned enterprises, and ultimately economic recovery and growth. Therefore, we are committed to
undertake a thorough review of labor legislation, including the Labor Code and unemployment legislation,
with a view that reform measures be prepared and implemented following completion of this review. We
intend to initiate such a process no later than end June, 1996.



42
ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 13
47.   We hope that the above elaboration of our program of reconstruction, reintegration and reformn has
expressed clearly our strong commitment to the rebuilding of our country and reform of our economy. The
contribution of the World Bank is an essential part of this historic endeavor.
Dr. H Muratovic                                         Dr. 1. Kapetanovid
Prime Minister                                            Prime Minister
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Dr. M. Kikanovic                                        Mr. D. Bilandiija
Minister                                          Deputy Prime Minister, and
Stavt Minstof Fi ance                                            Minister
StNVnist\                                            Federation Ministry of Finance
Mr. K. Omidevic   /  (
Govemor
National Ban  f Bosnia and Herzegovina



ANNEX 111
Page I of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                      Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present               Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are core TAC actions)       (starting September 1996)            1997 onwards
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Significant progress in restoring and maintaining  Continue satisfactory performance in      Continue satisfactory performance of the  Continue satisfactory
funancial stability since late 1994. Strengthened but still  implementing the macroeconomic program.   macroeconomic program.     performance of the
very low level of economic activity and employment                                                                                macroeconomic program.
compared to pre-war levels.
Different currencies are used in Bosniac-majority and                                        Adoption of the Central Bank Law to   Effective implementation of
Croat-majority areas, although the DM is accepted                                           the Parliament and establishment of the    Central Bank Law.
widely. No common monetary authority.                                                        Central Bank.
CREATING UNIFIED FEDERATION
INSTITUTIONS
Federal Customs Administration (FCA)               Full unification of FCA:
Separate customs administration created during the war,   Eliminate all check points on internal  Preparation of FCA modernization  Implementation of FCA
some harmonization of customs regulations after the  border;                                 completed including identification of  modernization program.
Washington Agreement of March 1994.                Open Federation revenue accounts;         customs office locations, HQ
Channel customs revenues to Federation   organizations.
revenue accounts;
Appoint international observers (ICOM)
to monitor absence of internal border
checks;
Uninterrupted flow of revenues verified by
ICOM.
Federal Tax Administration (FTAI                   Appoint FTA director, deputy and senior   Issue regulations clarifying interim  Implementation of FTA
Tax administration became divided during the war and    staff;                               (1996) application of existing tax laws    modernization program.
remained so after the Washington Agreement. Both,  Develop a plan for organization of Tax    of Federation;
however, have cooperated with external donors on   Administration in Federation;
technical assistance.                              Draft a new Federal Tax Administration
Law.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX mII
Page 2 of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                     Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present              Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are core TAC actions)      (starting September 1996)            1997 onwards
Federal Payments Bureau (FPB)                     Full Unification and Operation of FPB:
Payments system became separated in the two areas and   Direct linking of the two system through  Develop a reform and modemization    Complete implementation of
remained so at the time of Dayton.                weekly settlement of transaction balance    plan for FPB and start implementation.  the plan.
in DM for the Federation budget;
Appoint director, deputy and senior staff
of unified FPB;
Develop plans for harmonization of
procedures of the two systems;
Full integration of the two systems into a
single unified system.
Federal Banking Agency (FBA' )
During the war, National Bank of BH revoked licenses    Creation of Federal Banking Agency:
to banks in Croat-majority area. Supervision of Banks  Adoption of Federal Banking Agency   Initiation of technical assistance and  Demonstrated FBA capacity
carried out separately since then.                Law;                                      training to strengthen FBA          to enforce licensing and
Establishment of the Federal Banking     enforcement capacity.               supervision regulations.
Agency with Federation-wide licensing and
supervision responsibility;
Staffing to implement technical assistance
and training on a Federation-wide basis.
REINTEGRATION AND REFORM OF PUBLIC
FINANCE
(a) Budget. Tax and Intergovernmental Finance
Budget
No budgets for the State, Federation and cantons  Pass legislation on the 1996 State and    Pass legislation on the 1996 canton  Pass regulations on budget
established.                                      Federation budgets.                       budgets.                            procedures and treasury
management.
Initiate preparation of a new draft budget law
for the Federation.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                      Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present               Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are core TAC actions)       (starting September 1996)            1997 onwards
Tax Policy
Developing uniform tax policies that are consistent
with a market economy andfacilitate tax
administration
BH sought to improve the tax structure during the war.    Appoint expert group responsible for tax  Prepare an outline for tax policy reform    Draft and pass definite
Sales, corporate, and tax administration laws were  policy and regulatory reform.            as a basis for drafting definite     legislation in each of the
approved. Federation approved federal customs law, but                                       legislation.                          major tax areas.
implementation lagged
4:-
Initiate preparation of new tax laws on  Determnine which set of tax laws will                            '
corporate and personal income taxes.     apply throughout the Federation during
the time period while new legislation is
developed.
Intergovernmental Finance
Cantons to be established.                         Establish at least four cantons and define  Pass law designating canton borders.  Ten cantons established and
status of Sarajevo.                                                            functioning with clear
assignments of revenue and
responsibilities.
Major assignment issues of revenues and expenditures    Continue progress in determining     Prepare and adopt a framework for     Pass legislation on
left unresolved in the Dayton Agreement            expenditure and revenue responsibilities for   assignment of revenues and expenditure   government finance and
the State, Federation, cantons and       responsibilities at the State, Federation    intergovermmental relations.
municipalities.                          and local levels.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                      Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present               Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are Core TAC actions)       (starting September 1996)            1997 onwards
(b) Reintegrating Pension Systems
Pension reform to build an equitable, efficient and
financially sound system
Extreme low levels of pension and accumulation of  Agreement on establishing a Federation-wide  Pass necessary legislation and    Continue to implement
large amounts of arrears.                          minimum pension system within the         implement minimum pension            minimum pension
framework of a two tier pension system.  throughout Federation.                throughout Federation.
Large inequality in pensions across Federation due to  Establishment of a Federation working group   Developing a comprehensive, plan for    Implementation of the
lack of unified system. Weak administrative capacity  of experts. Regular meetings of the group for  implementation of the pension reform  comprehensive pension
due to lack of coordination between two separate   coordination and developing reorganization    plan.                             reform plan.              a
systems and destruction of capacity during war.    and reform plan in pension system.
Unsustainable funding mechanisms and financial     Establishment of Federation Pension       Recruit technical assistance to support
balances                                           Agency.                                   Federation Pension Agency.
(c) Reintegrating Health Care Financing
Reforming the health care financing system to      Establishment of a review process to plan  Pass necessary legislation and
encourage efficient mobilization and use of resources for  short- and medium-term strategies for health  implement the basic Federation-wide
providing health care services                     sector reform.                            health care plan.
Agreement on establishing a Federation
health-care financing system to provide
coverage of a basic package of health care.
Draft laws on health and health insurance  Develop a comprehensive plan for    Implement health care
Develop a plan to provide a uniform basic  health and financing reform.        finance reform plan.
package of health care across the Federation.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX 111
Page 5 of 7
BOSNIA AND) HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                        Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present                Short- to Medium-Term                   Longer Term
(items in bold are Core TAC actions)        (starting September 1996)              1997 onwards
STIMULATING GROWTH THROUGH RELAUNCHING MARKET REFORMS
Enterprise And Banking Reforms
(a) Privatizing Enterprises
Facilitate the transferfrom state/social to private
ownership of enterprive assets.
Corporatization and internal share distribution were  Establishing Federal Privatization Agency:  Passage by Parliament of necessary   Implementation of
undertaken in most enterprises in 1989.             Clarification of outstanding policy issues;  enabling legislation                 privatization
Enterprise sector operating at very low capacity due to    Presentation to Parliament of
war damage                                           Privatization Agency Law;                  Establishment of Privatization Agencies
Mechanisms for effecting rapid privatization remained  Arrangement for financing the work of   at the cantonal level.
unclear.                                             technical expert group and preparatory
technical assistance work for privatization.
(c) Settling Claims
Allow purchase of assets by using claims on the State.
The Government has undertaken preparatory work to    Develop a plan for resolution of claims and    Preparation of any necessary legislation.  Implementation
find solutions for two types of claims:              other settlement concepts, including criteria
(i) claims of individuals; (ii) claims between enterprises   for determining which assets and which
and banks.                                           claims will be included in the process.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX -II
Page 6 of 7
BOSNIA ANDI HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                  Completed Core TAC Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present              Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are Board Core TAC actions)   (starting September 1996)            1997 onwards
(d! Restitution
A restitution program is being elaborated which will  Continued progress in clarifying and defining  Enact any legislation needed and create   Implementation
determine the nature of restitution (assets that can be  a restitution program.            an infrastructure for implementation.
restituted in kind, or cases where financial compensation
would be offered instead), and the potential fiscal impact
of financial restitution.
Banking Sector Reforms
(a) Reintegration of Financial System and Budgetary                                                                                                         4
Financing Mechanisms                                                                                                                                        0O
Develop and adopt a strategy to reintegrate the legal
and institutional environments.
Decision to establish a Federation working group from  Preliminary drafting of State Central Bank  Presentation to Parliament and passage    Implementation.
the Ministry of Finance, National Bank, and Ministry of   Law and drafting and adopting Federation  of the State Central Bank Law.
Justice, to develop a suitable legal and regulatory  Banking Law.
framework for the banking sector.
Initiation of drafting/revision of   Adoption of new rules.
accounting and prudential rules.
(b) Reorganization and Privatization of Socially-
Owned Banks
Develop a privately-owned, market-based commercial
banking system by restructuring andprivatizing
socially owned banks.
Socially-owned banks burdened by loan/obligations                                          Initiate Bank work-outs.              Final resolution of troubled
from pre-war period.                                                                                                             assets and liabilities.
August 14, 1996



ANNEX 111
Page 7 of 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Areas, Objectives and Status at the time                       Completed Core Actions and On Going Reforms Outlined in LDP
of Dayton Agreement
From Dayton to the Present                Short- to Medium-Term                 Longer Term
(items in bold are Core TAC actions)       (starting September 1996)             1997 onwards
Socially-owned banks still owned by enterprise debtors.                                       Begin severance of socially-owned and    Initial implementation of
state-owned enterprise ownership of   bank privatization.
banks. Preliminaiy privatization
program designed (end 1996).
Encourage entry ofprivate banks.
Agreement on the need to strengthen small private bank   Initiation of technical assistance to provide  Improve the quality of management and   Continued improvement,
capacity and capital with technical assistance.     expertise for credit risk evaluation in lending   systems.                       including achievement of
to production-oriented business on a cash                                       minimum capital levels and
flow basis.                                                                     maintenance of capital
adequacy ratios according to vo
regulatory requirements.
August 14, 1996






IBRD 27708R
1 6                                    To Zagreb                                    1 8v            To Osijek
rTzOhr*>y) Zrgreb                                       O R  O   AT  I A                 To Vinkovci 
'~'*~,       /                                                                            To OsijeJ
\To GIina                                Boasa                                    rdB  oo                                       ,       To Bel grade
Bosonssi Novi Prijedor    Grodigka                             Aos5-uki                                                        rad    -<
A5    iCzi               S                      Prijedor                ,Derventao                           a    r       o     ,         1        _
Cazin0      
a 2         Bosonska                                                                    0                                    arflavor  Grodaeo
o°r   r' '- fid:,Bihac    Krupo                              Boanio°
0 Sonski Most   LuD oo                                          G   anic      Spionica                     0
u        '1                                                                          D o bons k i  'G'  0   T e s l i c a
Bet,osonski        ,Te<                                                n                           TuzIo               C4Loznico
Patrso.                                                                    Magloij Lukovac        0'
Kijuc0               ;          Skender Vokul                                 iviniceo>
CROATIA                      .        Drvar         MrkonjicO                                               Zovido,si       °Banoici        Zvorri,
-                                                       Pucareve°     oVitez..         Klcn 0  Va                        Vlasenica        ~
} Daik°5r° O lovar      rn     D  S a° '\
Knin/                          0 Glamoc           BugojnO                    B     sovo      k                                           <<          j   4
- 44< - OFainica 9,ernizovak o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sakovic^ 
'-.  '                      ~~~~~~Gornji voIsufE       Kreievao          ASara jeo                                    \ Blrd
0--           jrozor~~~~~~~~~ Rogolhcao   Visegrod Q                                        \.,.    Uzice
Li 0150~ ~ ~ ~~O 
'X)Sieni I.                                 \,               Duono                            !                                   atie             nM
Loree                   Ia    K n Vanica  r Kanjic                 l   i
i-   ;   ;    -@    \\   oOPasusi                               SS                   t -        0Kalinovils   D Fo o                         Prijep°aije
0NViteinj                            T
Bugo _sova                                                                                             444+    \t   :<   43  GaPodgor;co FEDERAL
Kni        OGIamoc                                                      isok-otopliino .SIoIoc  G       REPUBlIC
TO                                                                                                                Rogatio                            TOj43
43   .  .;                                                                                                  p \  -   Picrid<\  ['  O F
;   t              sS                               ~~~~~BileccO0!           YUGOSLAVIA
*7 i                              - Sea                                                                  u  (SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
P   i~~n,,   n 0,,   c,, ----       - _',  %.s4s_    .,OT~~~rebinje t
Dubrovnibik    .5
r     To   -
Posuiie                                                                         Priiepolie~~~Pdgo:~p
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                                          NP  F
- - - - MAJOR ROADS                                4,             C  CZECH -;C>I~~~~OAND(          UKRAINE
| | RAILROADS   z         /      GERMANYp\i 9Sg    RE                                                      P
-- - RIVERS                                                                of // G)MN   ~.                       t) ,1M0REP
D     SELECTED CITiES                                                       -- SWITZ ,;    AUSTRIAJi HUNGARV "J                    2
69    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                       i>r.           E  -'C.                 RMNA~
_~~~~~~~ _   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                  _                                    '\_tEA-~> RMAI    4_
Bilka          YU~~~~~YGOSLAV        IA\
ITALY          *, ,s5 :UrOc.VNP   BULGARIA
This snop n,os prepared by th. Map Design Unit of The World Bank.  ^. -.    *t*                                  -
Th. boundories, colors, denominotions ond any other enforn,aton                          AusANv..    -1 
0            25           50            75           sI,onn on ti5 snap do not imply, an the port Or The World Book  40'NI\                                                40_
i            i                                      Group, ony judgment on the legal shatus of any territory, or ony                               R'/                     30'
KILOMETERS                            endorsement or accptonce of such bondoris(                                                     GREECE :AT         TURKEY
16'                                          17 1'                                                        10°                        20            ,
AUGUST 1 996









t M lAG I, Ni
RepoDrt No: P-    6911 BIH
Typ,e: PR



