Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2914 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Transition Assistance Credit)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 6, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2914 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated September 6, 1996 between  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 15, 1996 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment and reintegration of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in  support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
 
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement."
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Borrower and the Bank 
shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Association or for goods produced in such territories; or (b) for the purpose 
of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations."
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
 
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective  obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
 
(b)
"Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Finance Agreement;
(c)
"Deutsche Mark" means the lawful currency of the Republic of Germany; and
 
(d)
"Deposit Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 62,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in support of the Program.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account (i) open and thereafter maintain in a 
commercial bank  satisfactory to the Association, Deposit Account A in Deutsche Mark 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; withdrawals not to exceed an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to SDR 20,770,000 from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into Deposit Account A; and (ii) open and thereafter 
maintain for the benefit of the Federation and for the purposes of the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association, Deposit 
Account B in Deutsche Mark on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate  protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; withdrawals 
not to exceed an amount in various currencies equivalent to SDR 41,630,000 from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into Deposit Account B.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into Deposit 
Account A an amount equal to the amount of said payment or cause the Federation to 
deposit in Deposit Account B an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund or cause the Federation to refund such amount 
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2  of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 1  and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
Page  4
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu  of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance of the Federation is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Deposit Account B.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to SDR 41,630,000 
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation under a Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation on the same terms 
and conditions as set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of and the Schedule 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.03.  Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Page  5
Section 5.01. For purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions of effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that the payments systems within the Federation shall have been unified 
as evidenced by:
(i)
the termination of the weekly settlement and clearance mechanism 
under the current dual payment systems; and
(ii)
the implementation of a new mechanism for supplying cash to 
branches of the Federal Payments Bureau under the guidelines 
issued by said Federal Payments Bureau; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Finance Agreement shall have been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement has been duly  authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Federation in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ S. Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which the goods and 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
not be excluded expenditures;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
      Group        Sub-group         Description of Items
      112              -             Alcoholic beverages
      121              -             Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                     refuse
      122              -             Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                     not containing tobacco substitutes)
      525              -             Radioactive and associated materials
      667              -             Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                     stones, unworked or worked
      718          718.70            Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                     fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                     irradiated, for nuclear reactors
      728          728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
      897          897.30            Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                     group metals (except watches and
                                     watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                     silversmiths' wares (including
                                     set gems)
      971              -             Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                     ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
Page  7
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Association or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
