                            Document of
                        The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR000030




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-N0420)




                          ON A CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 205.92 MILLION
               (US$ 305.70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO

                             INDIA

                             FOR A

         WOMAN AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                        November 27, 2006




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective 03/01/2006)
                               Currency Unit = Rupee
                                 Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.022
                                   US$ 1.00 = Rupee 44.64


                                      Fiscal Year
                                   April 1 to March 31
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASHA        Accredited Social Health Activist
AWC         Anganwadi (Village) Center
AWH         Anganwadi (Village) Helper
AWW         Anganwadi (Village) Worker
CDPO        Child Development (District) Project Officer
CPMU        Central Project Management Unit
            Dept. of Woman and Child Develop. of the Union Min. of Human Resource
DWCD
            Develop.
GOI         Government of India
ICDS        Integrated Child Development Service
ICDS-I      First Integrated Child Development Service Project, 1991
ICDS-II     Second Integrated Child Development Service Project, 1993
ICDS-III    Third Integrated Child Development Service Project , 1998
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education and Communication
IO          Intermediate Outcome
MDG         Millennium Development Goals
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
SPMU        State Project Management Unit
TINP I, II  Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Projects, 1980 and 1990
UP          Uttar Pradesh
WCD         Woman and Child Development



                             Vice President: Praful C. Patel

                           Country Director: Fayez S. Omar

                            Sector Manager: Anabela Abreu

                       Project Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati

                                                      INDIA
                WOMEN & CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                                CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 19
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 21
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 23
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 24
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 27
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 30
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 31
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 35
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any....................................... 39
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 41
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 47
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 48
Annex 13. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report ......................................... 49

1. Basic Information

Country:                India                 Project Name:           WOMEN & CHILD
                                                                      DEVLPM
Project ID:             P035827               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-N0420
ICR Date:               11/30/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOI
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 222.5M            Disbursed Amount:       XDR 194.5M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

CPMU/DWCD
State Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/15/1995           Effectiveness:     10/04/1999        10/04/1999
                                                                          06/13/2001
Appraisal:         10/25/1997        Restructuring(s):                    06/13/2003
                                                                          08/15/2004
Approval:          06/29/1998        Mid-term Review:                     05/10/2003
                                     Closing:           09/30/2004        03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance      Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any                                              Moderately
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any time                                                   Moderately
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Unsatisfactory
DO rating before                Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             2               4
Sub-national government administration                        3               8
Pre-primary education                                         4               3
Health                                                       91             85
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement             Secondary        Secondary
Gender                                         Primary          Primary
Child health                                   Primary          Primary
Education for all                              Primary          Primary
Nutrition and food security                    Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                 At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                               Praful C. Patel  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                             Fayez S. Omar    Edwin R. Lim

Sector Manager:                               Anabela Abreu    Richard Lee
                                                               Skolnik

Project Team Leader:                          Michele          Anthony R.
                                              Gragnolati       Measham
ICR Team Leader:                              Peter A. Berman
ICR Primary Author:                           Kye Woo Lee




                                          2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


The Bank's CAS recognized that India had among the lowest social indicators in the world and
consequently supported the Government of India's (GOI's) attempt to accelerate the pace of
human development. Specifically, the Bank gave priorities to addressing nutritional issues
through interventions linked with education, health, and social welfare services. The Bank aimed
to (a) improve nutritional policies and efficiency of nutritional programs; (b) build national health
capacity with emphasis on primary care; and (c) improve health systems and institution-building
in selected states. In addition, the Bank was also concerned about reducing the high prevalence of
child labor and improving the condition of women in the country.

Although famine no longer occurred and severe malnutrition among children had declined over
the past four decades, malnutrition was a major constraint to development and the quality of life
in India. About 53% of children under four were underweight (1992); 30% of newborns were of
low birth-weight; and more than half of Indian women were anemic with a major micronutrient
(iron, iodine, vitamin A) malnutrition. Malnutrition had been estimated to be associated with
about half of all child deaths and was responsible for 22 percent of the country's burden of
disease. Undernutrition also undermined educational attainment and ultimately impacted on
productivity at work and at home, with adverse implications for income and economic growth.

Since 1975, India has expanded the world's largest program for nutrition and early childhood
development. The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) program, managed by the
Department of Women and Child Development (DWCD), was the foremost symbol of India's
commitment to her children by providing pre-school education on the one hand, and breaking the
vicious cycle of malnutrition, morbidity, mortality, and reduced learning-capacity on the other. It
covered about two-thirds of the development blocks in the country in 1997.

Before the current Woman and Child Development project, the Bank had been assisting the GOI
in improving the health and nutritional status of children and women with several health,
education, and nutrition projects, including two projects that supported the expansion of ICDS in
selected poor states. With this new project, the Bank intended to build on the lessons learned from
the past and on-going projects, and strengthen GOI's policy and institutions related to nutrition by
increasing funding for programs, focusing on the quality as well as the coverage of ICDS, and
improving its effectiveness, targeting, decentralization, and community participation.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

DO1: Improve the nutrition, health and psycho-social status of children, 0-6 years of age, with
particular emphasis on preventing malnutrition in under threes, and improve child care practices
at the household level;




                                              3

DO2: Improve the nutrition and health of women, particularly pregnant and breastfeeding
mothers, and adolescent girls; and

DO3: Empower adolescent girls, through increased awareness, to take better care of their own
health and nutrition needs.

The goal was to improve the nutrition and health of pre-school children and women by increasing
the quality and cost-effectiveness of the IDCS program in five selected states (Kerala and Tamil
Nadu in the South, Maharashtra in the West, and Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh in the North). In
addition, the project aimed to strengthen the quality of ICDS worker training in all states and
union territories. Specific outcome indicators were:

     25% reduction in proportion of severely malnourished 0-36 month old children
     25% reduction in proportion of moderately malnourished 0-36 month old children by
     25% reduction in proportion babies born with low birth weight by
     Contribute to a 10% reduction in infant mortality rate
     Contribute to a 10% reduction in maternal mortality rate

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The indicators about contributing to a reduction in infant and maternal mortality were dropped at
Mid-Term Review Restructuring because they could not be measured. Moreover, target indicators
for the prevalence of child malnutrition were also changed at MTR to reflect less arbitrary and
more realistic targets that could actually be measured. The indicator chosen at MTR was the
following: "Project specific reduction in severe and moderate malnutrition in 0-36 month old
children (<-2SD, NCHS Growth Standards), up to 2% annual in project blocks (as compared with
non-project & non-ICDS blocks) presuming a secular trend of 1% (i .e. at least 10 percentage
points decline over 5 years)."
This indicator was only to be monitored for the original five focus states. There were no outcome
indicators for the additional six states or the national training component. These revisions were
agreed with the borrower and communicated in a letter from the Country Director on April 6,
2004 and confirmed by letter from Department of Economic Affairs dated November 1, 2004.


6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO,
as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The main project beneficiaries are children 0-6 years of age, pregnant and lactating women, and
adolescent girls, who have attended the Anganwadi Centers (AWCs), especially in the poor,
scheduled caste, and tribal communities. The project covered approximately 111,206 AWCs,
which have provided services to about 18.5 million direct beneficiaries and about 2.3 million
indirect beneficiaries in about 10.8 million at-risk households. As a result of the restructuring of
the project in 2003, the direct beneficiaries were increased by 5.3 million children and 1.3 million
pregnant and lactating women in the additional six states.


                                               4

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

A. Service Delivery
    (1) Service Quality Improvement: Improving the quality of ICDS with particular emphasis on
        (a) the provision of supplementary feeding and nutritional supplements to children and
        pregnant and lactating women and the regular monitoring to detect malnutrition and
        promote growth; (b) immunization against six childhood diseases; and (c) promoting
        overall psycho-social development of children.
    (2) Adolescent Girls' Empowerment: Activities included the provision of iron supplements
        and deworming treatment.
    (3) Staffing and Infrastructure Development: (a) staffing; (b) construction of new facilities
        for Anganwadis and block offices; (c) installation of hand-pumps; and (d) procurement of
        equipment, vehicles, and other items.

B. Program Support
    (1) Management and Institutional Development: Activities to strengthen management and
        institutional development included study tours, workshops, quality improvement and
        preparation of new projects.
    (2) Capacity Building for Training: Activities to strengthen training capacity for ICDS
        program staff included (a) training of staff of both new and old blocks;
        strengthening/establishing training centers and teams at the state and district levels; and
        (c) development of training materials.
    (3) Information, Education, and Communication (IEC): Based on formative research, the
        sub-component aimed at developing and carrying out IEC activities, including materials
        and media services, communication training and campaigns, and community mobilization
        activities.

C. Central Component
    (1) Management Information System (MIS): Activities included a computerized MIS with
        emphasis on monitoring and evaluation.
    (2) Nutrition Surveys: Activities included carrying out a baseline and endline nutrition
        surveys in the project states.
    (3) Reviewing Operational Research Priorities of the project states.
    (1) (4) National Training for all states and union territories.

6.6 Revised Components

As part of the restructuring of the project in December 2003 the Sub-component A.1 Service
Quality Improvement was revised to improve targeting of children in the 0-3 age group and of
pregnant and lactating women of the poor households and to strengthen the provision of regular
nutrition and health counseling. Also, selected service delivery activities and construction of
model AWCs were to be provided for additional states.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)


                                              5

By an amendment made in June 2001, the project also supported the earthquake reconstruction
activities in the state of Gujarat in the amount of SDR 46.4 million, of which SDR 16.5 million
was cancelled from this credit and assigned to Tsunami-related reconstruction inFunding for
the Gujarat Earth Reconstruction was supervised separately by the Bank under (Cr. 2637). By
another amendment to the credit agreement in December 2003, effective retroactively from
November 1, 2000, the project also included six additional states (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,
Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, and Uttaranchal) for the ICDS delivery and program support, and nine
additional states and union territories (Karnataka, Gujarat, West Bengal, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, J & K, Punjab, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Pondicherry) for construction of model
Anganwadi (village) Center (AWC) buildings for the ICDS. Finally, by another amendment to
the credit agreement in August 2004, SDR 17.7 million was allocated to the purchase of polio
vaccines, which was supervised as part of the Immunization Strengthening Project (Cr. 3340).

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

A. Early Discussion of Policy Matters

During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank team consistently raised three issues that
might affect the subsequent project implementation and impact. They were: (a) the provision of
adequate management and technical support for the proposed project; (b) the sustainability of the
ICDS program due to its universalization; and (c) the limited impact achieved by the ICDS-I and
II projects. Raising such issues at an early stage of the project cycle affected the project
implementation and outcomes positively.

The project preparation team received adequate support by the central government and the
participating states. This factor facilitated not only participatory project preparation processes, but
also early staffing of the State Project Management Units (SPMUs) by the time the project was
negotiated. This issue was raised by the Bank team since the ICDS II project experienced a
prolonged initial delay in implementation due to staffing problems. It was clear that states'
ownership of the project would prove essential for a successful implementation of such a
centrally financed but state implemented project.

GOI was pursuing universalization of the ICDS program in all development blocks. At appraisal,
the ICDS program covered 4,214 blocks or 73% of the 5,738 blocks in the country. Although the
proposed project was to cover 1,036 blocks (rural old: 619; rural new: 274; urban 38;
tribal/coastal:105), or 18% of the total blocks, the Bank team prudently raised an important
concern. The financial norms for food distribution, honorarium for AWC workers and helpers,
and training of ICDS workers were to be increased under the proposed project, and such
increased norms would affect the whole ICDS program. Despite GOI's request for a delay in
taking a decision, the Bank appraisal team and management maintained a firm position in raising
the financial norms before negotiations. Such decision is likely to have positively affected the
quality of service delivery of the ICDS program and outcomes of the project. This is because the



                                                6

success of the project depends to a great extent on the motivation of the Anganwadi Workers
(AWWs) and this is likely to have been improved by higher compensations.

At the time the Initial Executive Project Summary was discussed by the Bank (September 1995),
the ICDS II project had been suspended since August 1994. The suspension was lifted only in
November 1995. The Bank team emphasized the importance of satisfactory progress in the on-
going project as a condition for moving ahead with the proposed project in order to
ensure adequate government attention for speedy implementation of the on-going project along
with smooth preparation of the proposed project.

B. Quality at Entry

The design of the project fell short of the Bank's normal operational standards in the following
two aspects: (a) the monitoring indicators in the M&E framework; and (b) limited incorporation
of the lessons learned from earlier projects into the project design. There were significant
deficiencies in the processes of preparation and readiness for implementation.

The project implementation plans (PIPs) were prepared and submitted to the Bank in July 1999,
one year after Board approval of the project and the signing date of the credit and project
agreements. The effectiveness of the credit agreement was delayed by 18 months for several
reasons; however, the preparation of the PIPs for both ICDS and Training components made
important contribution to the delay. The national training component for all 35 states and union
territories ($100 million) was added to the project only just before negotiation without proper
preparation and appraisal. Moreover, the PIPs defined the project objectives and monitoring
indicators only in terms of percentages of increases/decreases from the baseline data, which were
yet to be obtained from a survey to be conducted after the credit effectiveness. Therefore, the
PIPs lacked information on input, process, and output targets and simply provided programmed
annual budgets for different components of the project. It is unclear how one should interpret or
assess those budget estimates without the information on the baseline data and physical input,
process and output targets. Under the circumstances, the PIP did not serve as useful operational
guidelines, and an effective project start-up could not be expected.

The state of Tamil Nadu was included in the project so that the lessons learned from the earlier
projects (TINP-I and II) could be replicated in other states. However, the lessons were not
properly operationalized in the proposed project design. For example, Tamil Nadu's experience
with additional workers at the AWC in particular to improve child care behaviors and practices
by visiting households and counseling mothers of 0-3 year children. This focus on the prevention
of malnutrition of under-three children and poverty orientation was lacking in the final design of
the project despite the emphasis made on it in the appraisal report.

Under the proposed project, in conformity with the norms of ICDS, each AWC was staffed with
only one worker and one helper, whose time was spent mainly for pre-school education activities
and the supplemental nutrition program (SNP). However, it is almost impossible for one AWC
worker to carry out both pre-schooling and supplementary feeding, and health/nutrition
education/counseling satisfactorily. Consequently, they did not regularly and actively carry out
the health and nutrition education/counseling activities and the prerequisite community



                                              7

mobilization for these activities. This problem was clearly anticipated at appraisal of the
project. The Implementation Completion Report of April 1998 pointed out the weakness in the
implementation of the health and nutrition education/counseling aspect of the project. The
appraisal team failed to incorporate this lesson into project design. It is no surprise that at Mid-
Term Review (MTR) in 2003 the project description of the credit agreement was amended to
clarify the focus of the project. The revised project description emphasizes the supplementary
feeding and nutritional supplementation of the ICDS program for children in the 0-3 age group
and pregnant and lactating women of the poorest households. It is unclear how these amended
strategies were expected to be carried out.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

A. Delays in Implementation Start-Up

The project closing date was extended by 18 months, and the project start up was delayed by
about the same length. Like the ICDS II project, effectiveness of this project was delayed due to
the late governmental approval, and implementation got off the ground at a slow pace because of
inadequate staffing. The project agreements were submitted to the Cabinet Committee on
Economic Affairs (CCEA) only in February 1999, after 8 months since Board approval. The
Committee approved them on April 1999, and the agreements became effective October 1999.
The administrative order for the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) was issued only in
July 2000, almost one year after the project became effective and two years after it was approved
by the Bank. Therefore, it is no surprise that only about 26% of the project funds were released
by the central government to project states after 3 years of the 5-year implementation period had
elapsed.

The project states staffed their project management units by the time of Negotiations, as
requested by the Bank appraisal team. However, since project implementation did not start
immediately, the project states reassigned their staff. Restoring the SPMUs required much more
time than for the central government. In June 2000, the Bank supervision team rated this project
as a problem project mainly because of inadequate staffing and the poor performance of the
project management team. Only in June 2001, the project implementation progress was upgraded
again to a satisfactory rating.

B. The Mid-Term Review and Restructuring

The Mid-term review of the project took place in May 2003, almost one year later than the
planned date. By that time, the project implementation had not made much progress, falling into a
second crisis. The government envisaged large savings in the credit account due to the slow
implementation and the local currency devaluation. With help from the new Bank supervision
team, the government prepared a proposal for restructuring the project, the focus of which was on
strengthening the quality of ICDS service delivery in six other states. The restructuring
emphasized the importance of strengthening regular health/nutrition counseling to change
mothers' child caring and feeding behaviors and practices and of reaching younger children of 0-3



                                               8

years and pregnant and lactating mothers of the poorest households.

However, without changing the modus operandi of the AWC workers and providing operational
guides on targeting, the renewed emphasis could not take place on the ground. Moreover, the
project implementation suffered from financial management and monitoring problems, and often
was not in compliance with the Bank fiduciary requirements. By March 2004, the project was
rated again as unsatisfactory in both development objectives and implementation progress, and
was flagged as a problem project. With the advent of new leadership at the DWCD in April 2004,
which showed strong commitment to the project and drive to manage such a complex operation in
many states with weak implementation capacity, the pace of implementation started accelerating.

Project execution was also damaged by the frequent changes in management and key staff of the
CPMU and SPMUs. Training in Bank procurement and financial management standards and
procedures was provided for local staff at the beginning of the project implementation, but
subsequent training arrangements were rarely made. New staff had to learn them by themselves
on the job, making mistakes. The Director of the CPMU was changed 9 times in the six-year
implementation period, and similar frequencies were observed at the state level as well. Staff
turnovers were so frequent that a new training program should have been launched almost every
year.

C. Extensions of the Closing Date and Action Plans

In response to GOI's request for an extension of the closing date by 18 months, the Bank project
team and management made a risk-taking, but professional decision, making an exception to the
Bank-wide and Regional guidelines, which did not allow an extension for a unsatisfactory project
without adequate benchmarks being met in advance. Since the project performance was
unsatisfactory, the extension of the closing date was decided contingent on the preparation of a
specific action plan. The extension was granted for only 9 months (to 6/30/2005), and a further
extension of the closing date was conditional on GOI's satisfactory implementation of the action
plan. The action plan covered time-bound activities such as strengthening CPMU by appointing
consultants in IEC and M&E, coordination between ICDS and health ministry activities,
acceleration of training implementation, launching the endline surveys, resolving financial
management and procurement issues, among other things.

The Bank supervision team put in place a very intensive supervision and implementation support
schedule, which included both frequent communication with the CPMU and regular joint World
Bank-GOI visits to the many participating states. During the 9-month period since the first
extension, four in-depth reviews were carried out, and more than 15 states were visited. The
intensive support proved effective. Project implementation made remarkable progress in both
documenting expenditures incurred in the past and executing planned activities. Approximately
US$65 million was disbursed following the first extension of the closing date and about US$35
million more disbursed by the final closing date. Moreover, the input and process indicators
available in the Quarterly Progress Report revealed that there had been much progress in the
execution of the project, which was likely to result in some positive impact on the outcome
indicators. As a result of these achievements, implementation progress (IP) was rated
"satisfactory," and development objectives (DO) "moderately satisfactory."



                                             9

On the basis of positive staff assessment of the rate and quality of execution observed in the
period of the first extension, Bank management approved a second extension of the closing date
to 03/31/2006. Consequently, almost half the total project funds were released to project states
during the period since the first extension was granted, and about three-fourths of the total funds
during the period since the restructuring of the project was agreed in mid-2003.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A. Design. Design of the indicators to monitor the progress of project's implementation and
evaluate the achievement of project's development objectives was defective from the
beginning (see section 7.1: B). Monitoring and evaluation indicators were defined mostly in
terms of percentage improvements from the baseline, and the baseline data had yet to be obtained
through surveys after the credit became effective. Most indicators selected were to measure
either inputs or processes (such as percentage of pregnant women registered). Therefore, the
linkage between the input and process indicators and the development outcome indicators has to
be made without much help of output indicators. The situation improved considerably after the
project restructuring when some output indicators were adopted.

B. Baseline Survey. The baseline data survey in each of the five original project states was
carried out only in the period 2000-2001. Some selected monitoring indicators were regularly
collected by AWC workers and were reported upwards throughout the ICDS administrative
hierarchy. However, the compiled data were rarely analyzed or disseminated for policy-making
or operational uses.

C. Endline Survey. The most noticeable fact in the monitoring and evaluation of this project was
that the endline survey was carried out in each of the five original project states by October 2005.
Despite the delay in collecting baseline data, the project ultimately produced both baseline and
endline data during the project life, a good practice. The GOI is in the process of analyzing and
comparing the results of the baseline and endline surveys for each state, district, and block to
infer the effects of the project inputs and processes. However, it would be difficult to attribute
the entire difference in the health/nutrition outcomes to the project directly since no control
groups were selected in the baseline surveys for comparison with non-project beneficiaries.

D. Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs). After the substantial delays and weak monitoring and
evaluation activities at the earlier stage of the project implementation, the CPMU devised a useful
format for monitoring SPMUs' project implementation and reporting it to the Bank on a quarterly
basis. Although the report placed more emphasis on the physical and financial operations of the
project, it also contained information on a few important inputs, processes, and outputs of the
project. This report also served as a useful communication tool from states to the central
government and to the Bank.

However, the QPR lacked important information on the costs and financing of the project by
project component and by the source of financing. It only reports project costs by the category of
expenditures financed by the Bank and transferred by the central government to the states. It is
not possible using these data to monitor the total costs and the effectiveness of the service



                                               10

delivery modalities. For example, despite the project emphasis placed on the supplementary
feeding, its costs are not readily available for analysis since it was not financed by the Bank.
Another important weakness of the QPR was the lack of monitoring on ICDS's coverage of the
targeted women and children living in each block, district and states and on the progress made in
the behavioral changes made by the women, adolescent girls, and children who received health
and nutrition educational/counseling services. The QPR did not report on how many were target
clients, how much progress had been made in expanding the coverage of the target clients and
how many are missed. The same statement can be made on the coverage of the preschool
component.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

A. Audit Disallowances and Reports. The project implementation was hampered by weak
financial management capacity and performance at both central and state levels and by the
CPMU's limited capacity to monitor project activities during the first half of the project
implementation. The release of funds from DWCD to the implementing states was often delayed
on the grounds that the states did not submit the required documents to verify the expenditures
they incurred. The Bank often had to recover already disbursed funds on the basis of the
disallowances made by the GOI Auditor General for a lack of supporting documents. Audit
disallowances were rampant in the first three years mainly because the advances made by state
governments to various implementing units for civil works were submitted as statements of
expenditures (SOE), which were claimed by the central government through SOE-based
withdrawals, but were disallowed by the Auditor General for lack of necessary documents to
substantiate the work done. In addition, there were also long delays in the submission of annual
audit reports, which led to suspension of disbursements in several states. In addition, the GOI and
the Bank did not adequately assess and address the financial management implications of adding
to the project the national training component involving all 35 states and union territories beyond
the original five states after appraisal. The problems, which started in 2000, were still being
tackled even after the closing date. For example, during the project life, disbursement
disallowances totaled Rs.1.9 billion (12% of the appraised project costs), of which Rs.0.7 billion
still remained to be recertified as of June 2006.

B. Procurement. Procurement under the project was generally unsatisfactory and one of the
reasons for requiring project extensions. Almost all state units were either ignorant about the
procedures and documents to be used for project funded procurement, or lacked the basic
capacity to carry it out. Added to this, the lack of procurement capacity was also present in the
central level which therefore functioned more like a post office, relaying procurement
communication from states to the Bank and rarely reviewing and providing its comments/inputs.
Although the functioning of the procurement officials at the central level improved significantly
towards the end of the project, it was not able to successfully provide the guidance and oversight
to states in the initial years, as it should have done.

In view of this, it is proposed that in future multistate multi-component projects like WCD, the
borrower prepare a project procurement guide/manual which shall inform officials about the
different types procurement to be done in each state, the steps for each type procurement, the



                                                11

documents to be used, the procedures for each procurement step (e.g. notifications, bidding,
evaluation etc.), the review and reporting requirements, and standard formats. This should be
supplemented by regular internal orientation and training on the contents and procedures in the
manual.

C. Environment and Safeguards. No major issues.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The pending project activities at the time of the closing date, such as the incomplete civil works
for AWCs and hand-pump installation, were well underway for completion at the time of the ICR
mission. The completed facilities and other project activities were well integrated into the general
ICDS program.

Because of significant ongoing policy dialogue on program effectiveness, there will be a gap
between completion of this operation and start-up of a possible follow-on operation. The GOI
and Bank jointly organized a National Consultation and Workshop in May 2006 to discuss the
report that the Bank had prepared in 2005 on child undernutrition in India and the ICDS program,
and the preliminary report on the effects of the WCD project that a Government team had
prepared with the help of several research institutes.

The Government kept the CPMU and SPMUs functioning during a four-month grace period from
April 1 through July 31, 2006 not only to submit reimbursement claims, but also to initiate the
preparation of a follow-up operation.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Child malnutrition and development problems are directly linked to achieving several of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) in the South Asia Region and the world. Therefore, the objectives and design
of the current project are entirely relevant to the strategies and priorities of the GOI and World Bank. GOI
launched the world's largest and unique program for early childhood development (ICDS) in 1975, and the
Bank has consistently supported GOI's ICDS program through projects for strengthening nutrition,
maternal and child health since 1980. The current project is a logical follow-on of Bank's endeavor to
support GOI's nutrition and child development programs. However, this project included both poor and
well-performing states (such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala) and so was not entirely targetted to the most
needy areas.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

Measured against the project development targets agreed at both negotiations and Mid-Term


                                                  12

Review restructuring, the project has attained "moderately satisfactory" achievement.
Achievement of project development objectives was expected to be measured by the key
performance indicators agreed upon between the GOI and Bank at negotiations. The Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) used three principal indicators: the prevalence of malnutrition among
0-36 month old children, the proportion of babies born with low birth weight, and the infant
mortality rate per 1,000 live births. However, the last two indicators were dropped during the
Mid-Term Review restructuring process. A brief summary description of the achievements is
presented below. Additional project achievements are discussed in Section 8.5. The actual values
of all indicators can be found in Annex 1.

Prevalence of severe and moderate malnutrition among 0-36 months old children

Original target: Reduction in % of severely and moderately malnourished 0-36 month old
children by 25%.

Revised target: Project specific reduction in severe and moderate malnutrition in 0-36 month old
children (<-2SD, NCHS Growth Standards), up to 2% annual in project blocks (as compared with
non-project & non-ICDS blocks) presuming a secular trend of 1% (i.e. at least 10 percentage
points decline over 5 years).

While the original target (%) referred to percentage change, in the revised target percent (%)
refers to percentage point change.

Moderate and severe malnutrition declined consistently in all original participating states.
Moreover, in all the states with the exception of Rajasthan, the reduction was faster than the
historical trend 1% (percentage point) annual decline.

Only Kerala met the original target of 25% decline fully. However, three other states
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and UP) met the target "substantially", i.e. higher than 90% of the
intended target value.

Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh met the revised target of a 10 percentage point (2 points annually
for 5 years) decline fully. The same can be said for Kerala that reached a prevalence of
malnutrition of 3.5% (although a 10 percentage point decline should have meant a 0.7%
prevalence of malnutrition, i.e. an impossible figure for practical purposes). Maharashtra and
Rajasthan met the revised target "substantially", reaching 82% and 98% of the intended target
value respectively.

Proportion of children born with low birth weight was reduced from 20.6% in 2000 to 19.0 % in
2005, a reduction of 7.8% against the project target of 25%, which is an achievement of 31%.
However, the reliability of this indicator is very questionable since the proportion of children
weighed at birth is still estimated at only 46% and measurement errors are very high for those
children who do get weighed after birth. As mentioned above, this indicator was dropped at
MTR.

Another target adopted at negotiation was a contribution to the reduction of infant mortality rates



                                              13

by ten percent. Infant mortality rates themselves declined from an average of 57 per 1000 live
births in 2000 to 48 in 2004 using an unweighted average from project states. This is a reduction
of 16%, which exceeds 10% target set in the PIPs. However, attribution to the project is not
possible. This indicator as well was dropped at MTR.

Causal Linkages. The project input and output indicators point to the direction of positive project
outcomes (see Annex 4). First, 85% of new AWCs and 94%of Child Development Project
Officer (CDPO) facilities were constructed and became operational and 68% of targeted hand-
pumps were installed for safe drinking water. Second, about 80% of CDPOs and supervisors, and
97% of AWWs and their helpers were appointed with more than 65% and 100% of them trained,
respectively. Third, 99% of old and new AWCs provided supplementary feeding to children and
pregnant and lactating women. Fourth, about 97% of AWCs received weighing scales for growth
monitoring and play-materials for psychosocial development. Finally, proportion of children who
received breastfeeding and vitamin-A rich food and fully immunized increased. Likewise, the
proportion of women who received prenatal services, micronutrients and preventive injections
during pregnancy, and who delivered births at an institution and weighing babies regularly
increased. Although modest, pregnant and lactating mothers' child caring and breast feeding
behaviors and practices have changed in the right direction.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The Project Management Units did not compile any cost data by the component of the project
(Section 7.3 D), for example, supplementary feeding, counseling, and preschooling for children,
adolescents, and mothers; or pre-service and in-service training separately. Therefore, it is
difficult to carry out any rigorous ex-post financial and economic analysis of the project and
compare the result with the appraisal estimates of the partial economic rate of return (20%) and
the benefit-cost ratio (2.3 at a 3% discount rate and 1.9 at a 6% discount rate).

However, major project components seem to have been carried out efficiently. In the original five
project states, the average per AWW of beneficiaries of supplementary feeding were 60 children
(6-72 months old) and 14 mothers. Among the children receiving supplementary feeding
benefits, children of 6-36 months old accounted for 45%. Therefore, beneficiaries of the
preschool program (37-72 months old) were 33 children per AWW or AWC. This is an efficient
number compared to Bank-financed projects in other countries. The cost of construction of
ACWs and the installation of handpumps was efficient, too, by international standards at $2,800
per AWW, or $85 per preschool children attended.

An indirect assessment can be made of the appraisal estimates (Annex 5) suggesting that the
actual attainment of the cost-effectiveness of the project may not have reached the level estimated
at appraisal; and the actual rate of return of the supplementary feeding component would be lower
than the appraisal estimate (around 20 percent). The appraisal team quoted two studies that had
assessed the impact of the ICDS program on primary schooling. The studies demonstrated that
children who attended ICDS centers dropped out less than those not attending among both lower
and middle caste children (19% vs. 35 % and 5% and 25 %, respectively). Since each AWW



                                              14

devoted more time than the appraisal team assumed on AWC children's preschool education, the
actual impact would be consistent with such studies.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project figured prominently in the government's development and MDGs agenda. Although
project design and implementation experienced shortcomings, the project achieved most of its
expected (both original and revised) outcome targets by the closing date. Indirect evidence also
suggests improvements in efficiency. Overall outcome rating is assessed as Moderately
Satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project contributed to poverty reduction and achievement towards the MDG goals and targets
in India. With respect to the MDG goal of eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, about 12% of
the more than 111,000 AWCs were located in tribal and coastal blocks, and the rest also were
sited in disadvantaged rural and urban blocks. Moreover, the project contributed to the reduction
of severe and moderate malnutrition in the project states.

The project also made significant contribution to gender equality. Although it was not a specific
project objective, almost all one million ICDS staff trained under the project are women, and their
important clients were also pregnant and lactating women and adolescent girls amounting to 2.8
million in 11 project states. In addition, they took care of 12.1 million children of 0-6 years in 11
project states, of which more than half are females. The endline survey shows that there is no
significant gender difference in children's attendance at ICDS centers.

In addition to the improvement of maternal and child health and nutrition services, the project
contributed to the social development of the project states in a broader sense. Except for some
private institutions, ICDS centers are virtually the only place offering preschool education in
India. Therefore, almost 4.4 million project state children of 3-6 years of age acquired some pre-
schooling and sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation through the
installation of hand-pumps under the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The rationale for Bank involvement in the project was to make policy and institutional changes in
the following areas: (a) increase in funding for nutrition and child development; (b) focus on
service quality improvement; (c) promote decentralization; (d) improve targeting; and (e) enhance
community participation. Substantial changes and improvements were made in most of these
areas.




                                               15

A. Increase in Funding. Funding for the ICDS program almost doubled from Rs.57, 203 million
during the 9th plan period (1997-2001) to Rs.112,845 million during the 10th plan period (2002-
2006).

B. Service Quality Improvement. The most important quality improvement was made through
training of ICDS human resources. Training was not confined to the five states, but was made
available to all 35 states and union territories. Almost one million workers received pre-service
training, and another 600,000 workers received refresher training, which eliminated most training
backlogs. The quality of AWW's performance improved in general owing to this massive
training.




The quality of ICDS service delivery was also improved through construction of new facilities for
ICDS offices and centers and provision of health and educational equipment and materials. New
facilities have improved the quality of preschooling and supplementary feeding services offered
by the AWCs.

Other quality improvement activities, such as health and nutrition education/counseling, IEC and
community mobilization, management information system (MIS), monitoring and evaluation,
workshops and discussion meetings (FREEQI), operational research, need to be more strongly
institutionalized. Progress in these improvements is constrained by the time and effort limitations
of having a single AWC worker and helper. In this connection, an innovative model is being
successfully tested out in the state of Rajasthan, where the ICDS program provides additional
compensation to the Health Ministry's newly appointed ASHA workers, so that each AWC can
have one more worker for health/nutrition counseling/education activities in the village. IEC and
community mobilization have been done sporadically as events and campaigns, rather than
regular business activities since no one is exclusively responsible for them. Monitoring and
evaluation has yet to be integrated in the MIS, which was poorly implemented in some states (in
particular, Uttar Pradesh).

Overall performance varied significantly across the states. A review of state-level performance
indicators by end of project indicates some of these differences. We note all around better



                                              16

performance on project inputs and outputs in the original states of Maharashtra and Rajasthan and
the additional states of Uttaranchal and Madhya Pradesh. Lagging performers were Uttar
Pradesh, Kerala and Bihar. Performance on input and output indicators is not strongly associated
with outcomes as measured in the project's evaluation.

C. Promotion of Decentralization. ICDS is a centrally sponsored and decentralized
implementation scheme. Therefore, the central government provides financial assistance to state
governments, which are principally responsible for implementation. The project has strengthened
state governments' capacity for decentralized project implementation with all quality
improvement activities mentioned above. In particular, the SPMU hired functional specialists in
planning, financial management, training, monitoring and evaluation. Moreover, since most
project directors are also responsible for the whole ICDS program of the state as well, policy and
institutional improvements/changes made with ICDS III have been often disseminated to the
whole ICDS program in the state. Further efforts are needed to strengthen central government
provision of technical and managerial assistance to states, in particular in implementation plans,
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.

D. Targeting and Community Participation. Despite the Bank's repeated emphasis especially at
the mid-term review restructuring, the project did not achieve much in improving targeting. The
credit agreement was amended to target ICDS services, especially regular health/nutrition
counseling, to children in the 0-3 age group and pregnant and lactating women of the poorest
households. However, there were no agreements between the GOI and the Bank on the
operational guidelines or norms to implement the targeting policy. Rather, the GOI continued
emphasizing the universalization of the program.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The endline survey data were collected and discussed at the central and state levels on the basis of
the preliminary analysis, which is summarized briefly in section 8.2. The preliminary findings of
the impact evaluation comparing endline and baseline data were also presented at the National
Consultation-Workshop on India's Undernourished Children and ICDS, which was organized
jointly by the GOI and World Bank in May 2006. However, an in-depth analysis is still being
made by the CPMU and will be made available soon. The findings are being used in the
preparation of the next World Bank-financed project and the Government Five-Year Plan for
women and child development.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Government's commitment to the ICDS program is strong as demonstrated by the 30 years'
expansion and the increased funds for the program in the next Five-Year Plan to finance both a


                                                17

sustained expansion of the program and half the cost of the Supplemental Nutrition Program.
Community support is also growing as evidenced in the provision of land for the construction of
AWCs and organization of mother's groups adolescent clubs in some blocks. ICDS figures
prominently in the preparation of the next Five-Year Plan (2007-2011). Moreover, the DWCD of
the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development was recently upgraded to a full-fledged
Union Ministry of Woman and Child Development (MWCD). This upgraded status will help
enhance coherent policy formulation and promote coordination and cooperation with other
Ministries, especially Education and Health Ministries, for integrated women and child
development.

However, the development outcome achievement of the current program structure is modest.
There are risks to sustaining and more importantly accelerating outcomes achieved under the
program. Key areas of attention are further strengthening of institutional capacities and essential
reforms to the ICDS delivery mechanism. There may be a sharp trade-off between the expansion
of the number of ICDS blocks, the commitment to an integrated program of child health and
nutrition and early childhood education; and making the program more effective in addressing
malnutrition.

Policies and institutions strengthened under this project are still weak and need to be reinforced
with external assistance including both technical assistance and additional financial assistance
(See Section 8.5 (b)). Several innovative ideas and pilot schemes developed in some states need
to be replicated in other states. Unless the functions of CPMU and SPMUs are well incorporated
into the existing organizational scheme at the central and state levels, GOI and states will lose a
substantive part of their institutional capacity and role, in particular their monitoring and
evaluation functions.

The service delivery mechanism of ICDS needs to be modified if the program is to become more
effective in reducing malnutrition among the priority groups, i.e. younger children and pregnant
and lactating women, especially among poor households and in disadvantaged areas. The AWW
in each center is almost fully occupied with preschool activities and supplementary feeding and
does not have enough time for health and nutritional education and counseling. Moreover, the
community mobilization and organization activities have yet to be firmly established as a routine
activity to support the health/nutrition education and counseling sessions.

Greater policy clarity is needed. GOI regards the ICDS as a multi-sector women and child
development program with a life-cycle approach. Therefore, the program has to have
comprehensive inputs and cover women and children of all ages including adolescents and of all
socio-economic and geographical groups universally. GoI's focus is on expanding the program to
reach all blocks and assuring availability of food. However, the Bank and other external donor
agencies (such as UNICEF, WFP, CARE) approach the program more as part of the targeted
poverty reduction policy, especially a malnutrition alleviation policy. The Bank advises that the
government interventions for health and nutrition should focus on the children of 0-3 years and
pregnant and lactating mothers of the poorest households since they represent the most cost-
effective window of opportunity in the life cycle; food subsidies for other groups should be
targeted due to sustainability, efficiency, and equity concerns.




                                              18

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank performance at the early stages of project preparation assistance was very good. It
engaged the GOI and participating states in policy dialogues, and encouraged their active
participation and ownership of the project through social assessments. The Bank also helped the
Borrower to analyze alternatives to the current project design, including the private sector
management of the ICDS program and varying number of states to be included in the project.
However, the Bank performance at appraisal and negotiations and in assuring project readiness
was unsatisfactory. The nation-wide training component, which accounted for about a third of
total project costs, was included in the project after the return of the appraisal mission and without
proper appraisal. The baseline data were not assessed and therefore targets for the monitoring and
evaluation indicators and Project Implementation Plans could not be defined at negotiations. In
fact, their definition was relegated to a baseline survey, which was to be carried out during the
project implementation. Such actions delayed Borrower's completion of the Project
Implementation Plans, project effectiveness, and early start up of the project implementation
(Section 7.1).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, Bank supervision was conducted with rigor and professionalism. The project can be
divided into three periods. The first was before restructuring at Mid-Term Review but after
project effectiveness. The second was between MTR restructuring and just prior to the original
closing date. The final period was just prior to and during two project extensions, in which
implementation was dramatically improved.

In the first two periods, the Bank carried out supervision missions regularly every six months with
well balanced staff-specializations. However, there was a long delay in project startup and
significant weaknesses in promoting effective M&E and innovative activities. Bank supervision
did not adequately respond to these challenges so that the initial phase can be characterized as
unsatisfactory. In the last period, the Bank not only intensified its supervision efforts, but took a
risk-taking and professional approach, which can be characterized as satisfactory.

Project effectiveness was delayed more than a year after board approval, although the first two
PSRs rated the project S for both DO and IP before effectiveness. After effectiveness, the project
was rated U for DO and IP for two rounds of supervision. During these initial project years the
Bank supervision team was unable to prevent and resolve the recurring problems in project funds
release, procurement and disbursement in a timely manner (Section 7.4). The Bank could have
taken more decisive actions to discuss with the GOI the causes and solutions of the financial
management and documentation problems, which started since the ICDS-I in 1992. It could have
mounted more specialists to help local staff or organize local education and training teams to


                                                19

impart the essential procurement and disbursement skills to frequently changing staff at central
and state levels.

Project restructuring started more than 2.5 years after Board approval, but only 1.5 years after
project effectiveness. The Bank agreed to the extension of the scope of the quality improvement
component to six additional states which could not fully benefit from ICDS I and II due to their
bifurcation during project implementation (Section 7.2 B). The Bank agreed to finance
construction of one model AWC in each of the remaining 24 states and territories although the
model had encountered difficulties in demonstrating its effectiveness for the health and nutritional
development of women and children (Section 7.2 B).

After restructuring, the Bank supervision team emphasized the quality improvement parts of the
project and tried hard to direct the ICDS program toward poverty alleviation and health and
nutrition education/counseling with a more targeted focus. It helped GOI accelerate training
components, try innovative schemes, revise the M & E indicators to international standards, and
set up more realistic input and outcome indicators. However, even with reduced funding,
disbursements lagged and implementation was weak. Despite this, the project was rated S in
PDOs and IP for six successive missions. The problems culminated in late 2003 when the project
was rated high risk and subsequently in March 2004, six months before the original project
closing date, when the PDO and IP ratings were downgraded to U.

To reinvigorate the project, Bank staff and management made decisions on the extension of the
closing dates by taking the risk of making an exception to the Bank-wide and regional guidelines.
In response to the GOI request for an 18-month extension of the project with the unsatisfactory
progress and outcomes, the Bank took a two-stage extension with an agreement with the GOI on a
strategic roadmap and time-bound action plans (Section 7.2 C). As a result, the Bank could help
the Government achieve, although delayed, most of the project outputs and outcomes set at
appraisal, including the Endline survey data, which is one of the best practices among Bank-
financed projects. The supervision team's policy dialogues resulted in a insightful sector report on
undernutrition, which served as the theme of the National Consultation held in May 2006 and
helped lay the ground work for a possible follow-up project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Satisfactory preparation assistance, moderately unsatisfactory appraisal performance,
unsatisfactory supervision up to and following restructuring, and satisfactory supervision
activities led the overall Bank performance rating to be "moderately satisfactory."

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During project preparation, the central government's leadership and state governments' active
participation was exemplary. Ever since the beginning of the project preparation, GOI, in
particular the Department of Woman and Child Development (DWCD), took the ownership in the
processing of the credit and implementation of the project by guiding and stimulating potentially


                                             20

interested states. The process of project preparation was efficient.

However, the Central Government's implementation record was marred by the late start-up of the
project. Completion of the Project Implementation Plans took longer than planned, DWCD
obtained Cabinet approval of the project nine months after Board approval, and the administrative
order for activating the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) was issued more than two
years after Bank approval. During the period, State Project Management Units (SPMUs), which
were established earlier, became inactive and required more time to reappoint staff or reactivate
them.

The first half of the project implementation suffered from other inefficiencies as well. CPMU
never reached full staffing, project funds to states were not released on time, procurement and
disbursement problems were rampant in all project states, supplementary feeding was not
targeted, and the health and nutrition counseling was not conducted regularly. Most of those
problems could have been prevented or resolved by learning lessons from the previous two ICDS
(WCD) projects of the same nature and modality. Moreover, staff turnovers at both central and
state levels were so frequent that project implementation was disrupted and delayed.
During the second half of project implementation, GOI made extraordinary efforts to complete
the project efficiently. Funds were released more regularly, and monitoring and evaluation
systems were established at both central and state levels, However, it has never been able to
make up for the time lost in the first half of the project life, and the project was completed with an
18-month delay. The only comfort is that most of the project outputs and outcomes set at
appraisal were achieved.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance

CPMU/DWCD          Unsatisfactory before restructuring and satisfactory since restructuring.
State Project
Management Unit    Unsatisfactory before restructuring and satisfactory since restructuring.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Inefficient performance in the first half of the project implementation and satisfactory
implementation in the second half of the project life led to the "moderately satisfactory" rating.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

A. The Bank and the government should agree on the timing of government approval of a Bank-
assisted project. The Bank should not go to the Board before the Cabinet approves the project
proposal, so that the project can become effective soon after Board approval. This process will
eliminate protracted project effectiveness and start-up delays (Section 7.1).




                                              21

B. At negotiations, the Bank and Government should discuss and agree on the stability or
longevity of project management staff to stem the adverse effects of the high staff turnover rates.
Alternatively, a project should include repeated training programs for local staff members,
especially in procurement and disbursement issues (Sections 7.1; 7.4; 10.2).

C. Lessons learned from previous projects, both positive and negative, should be rigorously
analyzed and applied to the subsequent project design, and a new initiative should be pilot tested
on a small scale. The health and nutrition aspects of the ICDS program have not been adequately
implemented under the current project due mainly to the one worker and one helper model of the
AWC, although alternatives have been demonstrated in other projects. Also, this project, like
ICDS I and II projects, suffered from serious problems with project funds release, procurement,
and disbursement. GOI and the Bank should have anticipated such problems since this project
was a third operation of the same nature and modality in the same WCD sub-sector but on a
larger scale. However, no specially designed preventive measures were taken under this project
(Sections 7.2 A; 7.4; 10.2).

D. The quality at entry of the project profoundly affected efficiency of project implementation.
The inclusion of a nation-wide training component without proper appraisal and the lack of
defined monitoring and evaluation indicators at negotiation delayed the start-up of the project and
adversely affected the subsequent project implementation processes. Baseline data should be
collected early so that it can serve as a basis for preparing and agreeing on Project
Implementation Plans (Sections 7.2 A; 10.1).

E. Extension of the closing date can be an effective instrument for expediting project
implementation when it is backed up by well-designed and time-bound action plans (Sections 7.2
C: 10.1).

F. In addition to input and process indicators, more output indicators (e.g. proportion of mothers
who changed their child caring behaviors) should be used, so that the input and process indicators
can be more persuasively linked to project outcome indicators. The collected monitoring and
evaluation indicators should be analyzed and disseminated for policy making and supervision.
Inclusion of control groups for comparison in both baseline and endline evaluation schemes
would enhance the evaluation effectiveness (Section 7.3).

G. The weak financial management and disbursement documentation were important causes of
project implementation delays. Some audit disallowances have still not been resolved. An in-
depth review of the processes, streamlining them, and making arrangements for training of local
staff in these aspects are essential before continuing with another Bank operation (Sections 7.4
and 10.2 (b)).

H. Institutional and organizational issues need more attention in national schemes. High staff
turnover and inconsistent high level management support (9 Project Directors in 6 years) impeded
project effectiveness.

I. A well designed child development program such as the ICDS can improve the health and
nutritional status of children substantially. If the program had been targeted well with strong



                                              22

health and nutrition education and counseling, it would have made a stronger and more efficient
outcome. ICDS can be an efficient instrument for poverty reduction and institutional
strengthening (Sections 8.2 and 8.5). IEC needs more serious attention in future efforts.

J. A child development program should be conceived and planned comprehensively and inter-
sectorally, but it is efficient to provide the necessary inputs and actions by each individual agency
(Ministry) in close coordination with other involved agencies. Institutional arrangements are
essential to ensure the necessary coordination. In supporting a multi-sector program such as
ICDS, the Bank should also ensure such institutional coordination between related sectors such as
education, health, and nutrition. It is inefficient for the Bank to assist a multi-sector program like
ICDS with the inputs of one sector such as the nutrition sector loan alone. ICDS will benefit more
with Bank's inputs from other sectors such as education and health (Sections 9; 10.1).

K. A specific investment project is not an optimal tool for meeting the varied needs and
capacities of different states in a large federated nation as India. Once the Government's project
preparation and implementation capacity is increased and experience accumulated, a program
loan approach would be preferred with different roles played by the central government, states,
and the Bank (Section 9).

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Bank very much appreciates the Borrower's detailed comments. We are particularly pleased
with the attention given to citing evidence from project baseline and endline surveys and state-
specific improvements in outcomes. The achievements of the Udisha component are also
noteworthy and it is regrettable that they were not properly evaluated. The Bank would also like
to note some of the implementation constraints cited, for example, in procurement. These will
need attention in the future. A key issue for future operations is how to integrate better
innovations from specific projects into the routine functioning of the national scheme.

(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               23

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

DO1: Improve the nutrition, health and psycho-social status of children, 0-6 years of age,
with particular emphasis on preventing malnutrition in under threes, and improve child
care practices at the household level;

DO2: Improve the nutrition and health of women, particularly pregnant and breastfeeding
mothers, and adolescent girls; and

DO3: Empower adolescent girls, through increased awareness, to take better care of their
own health and nutrition needs.

The goal was to improve the nutrition and health of pre-school children and women by
increasing the quality and cost-effectiveness of the IDCS program in five selected states
(Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the South, Maharashtra in the West, and Rajasthan and Uttar
Pradesh in the North). In addition, the project aimed to strengthen the quality of ICDS
worker training in all states and union territories. Specific outcome indicators were:

    25% reduction in proportion of severely malnourished 0-36 month old children
    25% reduction in proportion of moderately malnourished 0-36 month old children
       by
    25% reduction in proportion babies born with low birth weight by
    Contribute to a 10% reduction in infant mortality rate
    Contribute to a 10% reduction in maternal mortality rate

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The indicators about contributing to a reduction in infant and maternal mortality were
dropped at Mid-Term Review Restructuring because they could not be
measured. Moreover, target indicators for the prevalence of child malnutrition were also
changed at MTR to reflect less arbitrary and more realistic targets that could actually be
measured. The indicator chosen at MTR was the following: "Project specific reduction in
severe and moderate malnutrition in 0-36 month old children (<-2SD, NCHS Growth
Standards), up to 2% annual in project blocks (as compared with non-project & non-
ICDS blocks) presuming a secular trend of 1% (i .e. at least 10 percentage points decline
over 5 years)."

This indicator was only to be monitored for the original five focus states. There were no
outcome indicators for the additional six states or the national training component. These
revisions were agreed with the borrower and communicated in a letter from the Country
Director on April 6, 2004 and confirmed by letter from Department of Economic Affairs
dated November 1, 2004.




                                              24

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                   Original Target                             Actual Value

Indicator     Baseline Value       Values (from           Formally Revised Achieved at
                                   approval               Target Values        Completion or
                                   documents)                                  Target Years
              Original: Reduction in % of severely and moderately malnourished 0-36 month
Indicator 1 : old children by 25%. Revised: Reduction in severe and moderate malnutrition in
              0-36 month old children - 2% annual.

Value         UP: 58.1; Rajasthan:UP: 43.6; Rajasthan:UP:       48.1;          UP: 44.4;

(quantitative 39.1; Maharashtra: 29.3; Maharashtra:       Rajasthan: 29.1;     Rajasthan: 35.4;

or            51.8; Tamil Nadu:    38.9; Tamil Nadu:      Maharashtra: 41.8; Maharashtra: 42.6;

Qualitative)  50.9; Kerala: 10.78 38.2; Kerala: 8.1       Tamil Nadu: 40.9; Tamil Nadu: 39.5;
                                                          Kerala: 0.7          Kerala 3.5
Date achieved 06/30/2000           05/10/2003             11/01/2004           03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %      See Section 8.2 for comments
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reduction in % of babies born with low birth weight 25%.

Value         20.6% - UP: 20.6;    15.5% - UP: 15.5;                           19% - UP: 17.0;

(quantitative Rajasthan: 28.3;     Rajasthan: 21.2;                            Rajasthan: 40.7;

or            Maharashtra: 17.7; Maharashtra: 13.3; Dropped at MTR             Maharashtra: 19.0;

Qualitative)  Tamil Nadu: n.a.;    Tamil Nadu: n.a.;                           Tamil Nadu: 6.0;
              Kerala: 15.8         Kerala: 11.9                                Kerala: 12.2
Date achieved 06/30/2000           05/10/2003             11/01/2004           03/31/2006
Comments      From baseline, a reduction of 7.8%, i.e., an achievement of 31% of the original
(incl. %      target. However, reliability of this indicator is questionable and it was dropped at
achievement) restructuring.
Indicator 3 : Contribute to a reduction in infant and maternal mortality rate by 10%.
Value
(quantitative 56.7 per thousand    51.0 per thousand                           47.8 per thousand

or            live births in the 5 live births (10%       Dropped at MTR       live births (16%

Qualitative)  original states.     decline)                                    decline)

Date achieved 06/30/2000           05/10/2003             11/01/2004           03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Project attribution not possible. The indicator was dropped at restructuring.
achievement)




                                                25

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


Indicator        Baseline     Original Target          Formally        Actual Value Achieved

                 Value        Values (from approval Revised Target at Completion or
                              documents)               Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Increased beneficiaries of 6-72 months age group (Supplementary Nutrition
                 Program)
Value
(quantitative or 4,254,023    NA                       NA              12,083,690 persons
Qualitative)     persons

Date achieved 06/30/2000 05/10/2003                    11/01/2004      03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Beneficiaries increased from the Baseline Value by 184%.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Increased beneficiary women, particularly pregnant and lactating mothers
                 (Supplementary Nutrition Program)
Value
(quantitative or 1,005,574    NA                       NA              1,559,986 persons
Qualitative)     persons

Date achieved 06/30/2000 05/10/2003                    11/01/2004      03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Beneficiaries increased from the Baseline Value by 55%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Increased beneficiary blocks of the project.
Value
(quantitative or 619 blocks   1,036 (619:

Qualitative)                  old/existing)

Date achieved 06/30/2000 05/10/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                26

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                Board     ISR Ratings at Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring & Key
Date(s)         PDO                      Restructuring Changes Made
                Change    DO      IP     in USD M
06/13/2001      Y          U      U     38.10
                                                         Delays in project implementation
                                                         and supervision mission findings
                                                         prompted adjustment in the service
                                                         quality improvement and national
                                                         training components.
                                                         Supplementary feeding and
                                                         nutrition supplements were
                                                         strengthened to focus on children
                                                         in the 0-3 age group and pregnant
06/13/2003      N          S      S      128.98          and lactating women of poor
                                                         households. After the closure of
                                                         ICDS II project, six states were
                                                         brought in for service quality
                                                         improvement and program support.
                                                         Construction of new centers and
                                                         block offices in other states as well.
                                                         Impact and process indicators were
                                                         revised to adopt international
                                                         growth monitoring standards.
                                                         Savings in credit account were
                                                         expected due to delays in

08/15/2004      N          U      U      125.12          implementation and local currency
                                                         devaluation. IDA $35 M equivalent
                                                         was reallocated for immunization
                                                         program.
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                             Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets         Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                    Moderately Satisfactory




                                            27

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


Components                   Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                             (USD M)            (USD M)                Appraisal
SERVICE QUALITY
STRENGTHENING                            218.20                 245.61          112.56

PROGRAM SUPPORT                           37.80                  36.09            95.48
CENTRAL PROJECT
MANAGEMENT                                 4.20                   0.83            19.76

NATIONAL TRAINING
COMPONENT                                162.20                  75.87            46.78

Polio Eradication                          0.00                  27.51
Gujarat Emergency Earthquake               0.00                  47.93
Total Baseline Cost                      422.40                 433.84
Physical Contingencies                     0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00
Total Project Costs                      422.40
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00                   0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00                   0.00             0.00
Total Financing Required                 422.40                 433.84



(b) Financing

                                         Appraisal
Source of Funds             Type of                    Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                            Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                         M)            Estimate (USD M) Appraisal

INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                              300.00        287.00            95.67
ASSOCIATION


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                        28

29

Annex 4. Outputs by Component




                               30

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

It is difficult to carry out any rigorous financial and economic analysis of the project and
compare the result with the appraisal estimates of the partial economic rate of return (20%) and
the benefit-cost ratio (2.3 at 3% discount rate) since the central project implementation unit did
not compile any statistics on the costs of the project by component, in particular the food costs
which were financed by project states and other external aid agencies.

However, major project components seem to have been carried out efficiently. In the original
five project states, the beneficiaries of supplementary feeding were 60 children (6-72 months
old) and 14 mothers per AWW. This number does not change between new blocks operational
and traditional blocks with the World Bank assistance. Among the children receiving
supplementary feeding benefits, children of 6-36 months old accounted for 45%. Therefore,
beneficiaries of the preschool program (37-72 months old) were 33 children per AWW or
AWC. This is an efficient number among Bank-financed projects in other countries. The
construction of AWCs and the installation of handpumps were efficient, too, by international
standards. Each new AWC was constructed on average at $2,800, or $85 per preschool children
attended; each handpump was installed at about $900.

Although a comparison between the appraisal estimate of financial and economic efficiency of
the project and the actual results can not be made directly, an indirect assessment can be made
of the appraisal estimates. The appraisal team made a rather comprehensive financial and
economic analysis of the project, in particular the supplementary feeding component. The
appraisal team's analysis included, among others: (i) the cost-effectiveness analysis of the
supplementary feeding component of the project ICDS; (ii) a partial rate of return analysis of
the supplementary feeding component; and (iii) the school performance impact analysis.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis . The actual attainment of the cost-effectiveness of the project may
not have reached the level estimated at appraisal. The appraisal team estimated that the ratio
between the food value and the food delivery cost can be reduced from Rs. 4.35 per Rs. of food
by the traditional Public Distribution System to Rs.1.22 per Rs. of food by the project ICDS,
which was to incorporate a lower delivery cost per unit of food and more effective targeting of
those at risk. However, under the Public Distribution System, transportation costs accounted
for 20-35% of the total feeding cost, and as little as 25-30% of foodgrains distributed were
estimated to have reached the poorest 40% of the population who can be assumed to be most
nutritionally at risk. Moreover, the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Projects (TINPs) have
focused their feeding program largely on growth faltering children, particularly those aged 6-36
months. This compares to the general ICDS approach, which provides some supplementary
feeding to all children aged 0-6years who attend the AWC. The appraisal team estimated that
the TINPs model would reduce the feeding costs by 50% in both the project states and other
states of India. On this basis, the appraisal team suggested that the resources be transferred from
the Public Distribution System to the ICDS. However, such resource transfer did not take place,
and the project ICDS feeding model followed, not the TINPs, but general ICDS model of
feeding. The GOI may want to review alternative methods of supplementary feeding (Section
9). If the supplementary feeding is carried out by food coupon on the basis of the nutritional
status, income level, and graduation clauses, a higher level of cost-effectiveness will be



                                               31

achieved without being in conflict with the recent Supreme Court decision.

Another cost-effectiveness indicator used by the appraisal team was the project coverage of the
children aged 0-6 in each block. The appraisal team targeted that the project AWCs would
cover no more than poor 40% of the children aged 0-6 years in each block under the
supplementary feeding component. Although the project implementation units failed to compile
data on the project's coverage of the potential beneficiary children, an actual coverage rate can
be estimated using the appraisal team's estimation of the potential beneficiaries of each block.
The appraisal team estimated that potential beneficiary in each block would be 6,700 children
aged 0-6, assuming that each block on average has a population of about 100,000 persons
including 17% of children aged 0-6. The project was to target on the poor 40% of the 6,700
children.

However, the actual project coverage is estimated to be much greater, ranging 36% in the state
of Kerala to 83% in Maharashtra, as shown in the following table. This is due to GOI's failure
to target its supplementary feeding program on poorer and nutritionally failing children.

Coverage Rate of the 0-6 years Children in each Block (%)
 Maharashtra         Rajasthan        Uttar Pradesh      Tamil Nadu         Kerala
 83                  63               54                 84                 36

(ii) Partial Rate of Return Analysis. The actual rate of return of the supplementary feeding
component would be lower than the appraisal estimate (around 20 percent). The appraisal team
estimated that the declining incidence of severe malnutrition among ICDS beneficiaries would
continue, and this decline would avert infant mortality and would reduce frailty in the surviving
population, resulting in enhanced labor productivity of the future labor force and increased
output. However, on the one hand, it appears that the appraisal team inadvertently attributed the
whole decline of severe malnutrition among ICDS beneficiaries to the project. Moreover, the
cost of supplementary feeding seems to be underestimated since the project ICDS did not target
its beneficiaries selectively on the basis of certain objective criteria and sun-set clauses, and the
distribution costs did not experienced any savings as suggested. On the other hand, the project
seems to have contributed to the reduction of the infant mortality rate as assumed by the
appraisal team (see a separate discussion on this below). Therefore, although it is impossible to
re-estimate the rate of return or the benefit-cost ratio due to the lack of data on the
supplementary feeding component alone, it can be safely construed that the ex-post rate of
return and the benefit-cost ratio would be less favorable to the actual project than those
estimated at appraisal.

(iii) School Performance Impact Analysis. The appraisal team quoted two studies that had
assessed the impact of the ICDS program on primary schooling. The studies demonstrated that
children who attended ICDS centers dropped out less than those who did not attend, among
both lower and middle caste children (19% vs. 35 % and 5% and 25 %, respectively). The
actual impact would be consistent with such studies. The AWWs in project ICDS centers
carried out preschool education almost on a full time basis, i.e., they devoted more time than
anticipated by the appraisal team to preschool education since they spent little time on regular
health and nutrition counseling and educational sessions.



                                              32

(iv) Infant Mortality Impact Analysis. One target adopted at negotiation was project's
contribution to the reduction of infant mortality rates by ten percent. Infant mortality rates
themselves declined from an average of 57 per 1000 live births in 2000 to 48 in 2004, a
reduction of 16%, which exceeds 10% target set in the PIPs.

It is difficult to measure a direct causal relationship between this project and infant mortality
rates, as well as the malnutrition rates. There were multitudes of factors that might have
affected infant mortality and malnutrition rates, and it is virtually impossible to control factors
other than this project due to the lack of necessary data. The question of how the project states
performed in child nutrition and health, in comparison with other non-project states, may be
answered when the National Family Health Survey data are released at the end of this year.
However, states' performance in infant mortality rates can be compared now on the basis of
annual Vital Statistics data published by the Office of the Registrar General. A comparison of
project states' performance with non-project states is presented in the following table.

 Table 1. Inter-State Comparison of Infant Mortality Rates
                                                                       Annual         Annual
 States                                 1997      2000**    2004       % change       % change
                                                                       (1997/2000)    (2000/2004)
 ICDS III States (5) + Andhra P*.       57.5      56.7       47.8      -0.48          -3.90
 ICDS I or II States (6)                87.0      74.3       62.2      -4.85          -4.09
 Non-ICDS States + UT (23)              50.5      48.9       42.3      -1.00          -3.37
 * Andhra Pradesh received assistance in ICDS under another Bank credit (IDA-30520) during the
 similar period.
 ** The project was actively implemented from year 2000.

Although it is inappropriate to attribute the entire reduction in infant mortality rates in the
project states to the ICDS-III project, it is plausible that the project did make some important
contribution. Before the project intervention in 1997, project states made a slower annual
reduction in infant mortality rates than non-project states (-0.48 vs. -1.00). However, since the
project intervention in 2000, project states experienced a faster annual reduction in infant
mortality rates than non-project states (-3.90 vs. -3.37) (Annex 1; indicator 3).

These estimates are unweighted averages across groups of states which are very heterogeneous.
For example, the five project states include two of India's lowest IMR states, Kerala and Tamil
Nadu, and two of the highest, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. A more detailed analysis would be
needed to draw any strong conclusions.

It is also worth noting that the project input and output indicators point to the direction of
positive project outcomes (Annex 4). First, 85% of new AWCs and 94%of Child Development
Project Officer (CDPO) facilities were constructed and became operational and 68% of targeted
hand-pumps were installed for safe drinking water. Second, about 80% of CDPOs and
supervisors, and 97% of AWWs and their helpers were appointed with more than 65% and
100% of them trained, respectively. Third, 99% of old and new AWCs provided supplementary
feeding to children and pregnant and lactating women. Fourth, about 97% of AWCs received
weighing scales for growth monitoring and play-materials for psychosocial development.


                                               33

Finally, proportion of children who received breastfeeding and vitamin-A rich food and fully
immunized increased. Likewise, the proportion of women who received prenatal services,
micronutrients and preventive injections during pregnancy, and who delivered births at an
institution and weighing babies regularly increased. Although modest, pregnant and lactating
mothers' child caring and breast feeding behaviors and practices have changed in the right
direction.




                                            34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Jayshree Balachander   Sr Human Resources
                       Spec.                  EASHD           Technical Design

Alan D. Berg           Consultant             QAG             Technical Design
Mam Chand              Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS           Procurement

Meera Chatterjee       Senior Social
                       Development Spec       SASES           Team Leader

James Keith Hinchliffe Lead Education
                       Economist              AFTH3           Financial Management

Anthony R. Measham Consultant                 QAG             Technical Design
Meera Priyadarshi      Sr Nutrition Speclist  SASHD           Technical Design
Nira Singh             Program Assistant      SASHD           Administrative Support
Supervision/ICR
Kiran R. Baral         Sr Procurement Off.    SARPS           Procurement

Peter A. Berman        Lead Economist,
                       Health                 SASHD           Lead Specialist

Caryn Bredenkamp       E T Consultant         ECSHD           Impact Evaluation
Mohan Gopalakrishnan Sr   Financial
                       Management Specialist  SARFM           Financial Management

Meera Priyadarshi      Sr Nutrition Spec.     SASHD           Nutrition Issue
Snehashish Rai
Chowdhury              Operations Officer     SASHD           Overall Impl. Coord.

Ahmad Salman           Consultant             SASHD           M&E, Impl. Support
Nira Singh             Program Assistant      SASHD           Administrative Support
Panchapakesan
Subramaniyam           Consultant             SASHD           M&E, Impl. Support


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR                                               Actual Disbursements
       Archived               DO                     IP              (USD M)
1   06/17/1999         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       0.00
2   12/30/1999         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      10.00
3   06/28/2000         Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    10.00
4   12/22/2000         Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                    10.57
5   06/20/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      38.10
6   12/21/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      41.36
7   06/27/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      96.58
8   12/23/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     113.23
9   06/26/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     128.98
10 11/18/2003          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     124.86
11 03/15/2004          Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                   126.72




                                             35

13 12/15/2004         Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory                       164.20

14 04/27/2005         Moderately          Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                          179.49

15 05/19/2005         Moderately
                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory                         181.63

16 11/20/2005         Moderately
                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory                         236.10

17 03/24/2006         Moderately          Moderately
                    Satisfactory       Satisfactory                            243.23


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY95                                                        10.78
                    FY96                                                       207.10
                    FY97                                                       229.12
                    FY98                                                       178.69
                    FY99                                                        21.32
                    FY00                                                         0.29
                    FY01                                                         0.00
                    FY02                                                         0.00
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.00
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                                    647.30
Supervision/ICR
                    FY95                                                         0.00
                    FY96                                                         0.82
                    FY97                                                         0.05
                    FY98                                                         0.04
                    FY99                                                        93.08
                    FY00                                      42                87.56
                    FY01                                      21                49.19
                    FY02                                      22                45.85
                    FY03                                      27                85.40
                    FY04                                      43               129.31
                    FY05                                      47               142.58
                    FY06                                      24               129.35
                    FY07                                       3                44.33
                                     Total:                  229               807.56




                                         36

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at     Moderately
Entry:                  Unsatisfactory          Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:  Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                           Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Overall
                                                Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                              37

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       38

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Concluding section of report of the National Consultation on Child Undernutrition
and ICDS in India held in New Delhi on May 11, 2006. This consultation was co-
sponsored by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India
and the World Bank

A broad consensus on key issues emerged during the day-long consultation. The
consultation brought together the collective wisdom of the Indian central and state
governments and key developmental partners, for assessing and redesigning ICDS. The
discussions were based on concrete experiences, and assorted research findings.

Strong consensus emerged about the potential of ICDS, as well as need for focused
changes. Decentralisation and greater flexibility call for urgent attention in the wake of
the second phase expansion and demands of the expanded program. Innovations need to
be shared across states so as to facilitate wide replication. Service delivery must be
realigned to meet the nutritional needs of the most vulnerable groups. Micronutrient
deficiencies need to be urgently addressed through scaling up already existing models.
Supplementary nutrition programs should have a dynamic IEC focus so as to impact
home-based feeding patterns and effect appropriate behaviour changes. Capacity building
needs to be undertaken with a focus on supporting AWWs to learn and transmit nutrition-
related messages to target groups. Overall, more attention has to be paid to high-
malnutrition districts, and socioeconomic groups.

Ms. Reva Nayyar, Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD),
Government of India noted that the accent of ICDS should be on locally devised
programs, rather than central control. Most decisions should be left with local authorities
and stakeholders. Enhanced community ownership will come about when responsibilities
and resources are shared with communities. Home-based care has to be improved
through counseling and education interventions. She noted that while the
recommendations being made for changes in ICDS are indeed ambitious, at the same
time they are certainly desirable.

Mr. Chaman Kumar, Joint Secretary, MWCD, noted that some recommendations are
already in place, but need to be activated. District level monitoring and identification of
high-malnutrition blocks need to be systematically undertaken. So also monthly sector
meetings with AWWs and supervisors, for review and planning.

According to Dr. Peter Berman, Lead Economist, Health, Nutrition and Population,
World Bank, a number of cross-cutting points were raised by the four thematic groups,
reflecting common understanding that can be taken further. This meeting has taken stock
of the current situation, discussed common interests and questions, and indicated that it is
possible to find the answers.


The consultation brought together many points of view from different partners and



                                              39

stakeholders. Very rich ideas emerged. Fresh approaches and new ways of thinking were
very much in evidence. The next step will be to draw out these ideas out and integrate
them into a new framework for action  a revised ICDS program.

Key Issues

Strategic choices
 Preventing malnutrition as early as possible, in the life cycle
 Improving family care and health-related behaviour

Targeting
 Poorest and most marginalized households
 Most vulnerable under-3 children
 Worst off communities/ blocks/ districts/ states.

Decentralisation
 Local relevance and flexibility

Key recommendations
 Focus ICDS service delivery for under-3s on prevention of undernutrition
 Ensure accountability in terms of nutrition outcomes
 Develop two distinct cadres of functionally trained workers (for 0-3 and 3-6)
 Enhance convergence with health department for care of underweight babies, etc
 Encourage community involvement to reach most vulnerable children/groups
 Offer a basket of services to address micronutrient malnutrition, including
   supplementation, fortification, dietary diversification and nutrition education
 Promote optimal home-based care, breastfeeding and complementary feeding
   practices through nutrition education and counseling of mothers and families
 Build a special thrust on states/blocks with poor indicators
 Encourage customized local planning and management
 Introduce decentralisation in procurement, data management, human resource
   appointment, reporting and monitoring
 Enhance role of community committees in planning and monitoring.




                                            40

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR (see Annex 13)
 Text/Comments in ICR                                            Comments of MWCD


6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The main project beneficiaries are children 0-6 years of age,    The statement needs to be modified to reflect the
pregnant and lactating women, and adolescent girls, who have     actual position as follows:
attended the Anganwadi Centers (AWCs), especially in the
poor, scheduled caste, and tribal communities. The project       Originally, the project covered 318 new (uncovered)
covered approximately 111,206 AWCs, which have provided          blocks with about 44,000 AWCs which were
services to about 18.5 million direct beneficiaries and about    operationalized under the project and 685 old
2.3 million indirect beneficiaries in about 10.8 million at-risk (existing) blocks with about 68,000 AWCs wherein
households. As a result of the restructuring of the project in   some specific interventions were added to strengthen
2003, the direct beneficiaries were increased by 5.3 million     the ICDS Scheme. These old and new blocks were
children and 1.3 million pregnant and lactating women in the     situated in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
additional six states.                                           Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. After re-
                                                                 structuring, another 461 blocks (operationalized under
                                                                 the erstwhile ICDS-II Project) with about 64,000
                                                                 AWCs in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,
                                                                 Bihar and Jharkhand were included in the project with
                                                                 three specific interventions viz., Innovative Scheme,
                                                                 Civil works and AG Scheme. The direct beneficiaries
                                                                 covered under the supplementary nutrition component
                                                                 in these states have been about 12.10 million children
                                                                 and 2.8 million pregnant and lactating women.
                                                                 [Ref. QPR March 31, 2006]
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
B. Quality at Entry
The design of the project fell short of the Bank's normal        No comments.
operational standards in the following two aspects: (a) the
monitoring indicators in the M&E framework; and (b) limited
incorporation of the lessons learned from earlier projects into
the project design. There were significant deficiencies in the
processes of preparation and readiness for implementation.
The project implementation plans (PIPs) were prepared and
submitted to the Bank in July 1999, one year after Board         No comments.
approval of the project and the signing date of the credit and
project agreements. The effectiveness of the credit agreement
was delayed by 18 months for several reasons; however, the
preparation of the PIPs for both ICDS and Training
components made important contribution to the delay. The
national training component for all 35 states and union
territories ($100 million) was added to the project only just
before negotiation without proper preparation and appraisal.
Moreover, the PIPs defined the project objectives and
monitoring indicators only in terms of percentages of
increases/decreases from the baseline data, which were yet to
be obtained from a survey to be conducted after the credit
effectiveness. Therefore, the PIPs lacked information on input,
process, and output targets and simply provided programmed
annual budgets for different components of the project. It is



                                                    41

unclear how one should interpret or assess those budget
estimates without the information on the baseline data and
physical input, process and output targets. Under the
circumstances, the PIP did not serve as useful operational
guidelines, and an effective project start-up could not be
expected.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design,
Implementation and Utilization
A. Design. Design of the indicators to monitor the progress of    Ideally, baseline surveys should have been conducted
project's implementation and evaluate the achievement of          before commencement of the project, with a clear
project's development objectives was defective from the           understanding and consensus by all stakeholders
beginning (see section 7.1: B). Monitoring and evaluation         (World Bank, GoI and State Governments) on the set
indicators were defined mostly in terms of percentage             of monitorable indicators, which were to be again
improvements from the baseline, and the baseline data had yet     measured at the end of the project. It appears that not
to be obtained through surveys after the credit became            much deliberation was made on this very basic issue
effective. Most indicators selected were to measure either        while formulating the project.
inputs or processes (such as percentage of pregnant women
registered). Therefore, the linkage between the input and
process indicators and the development outcome indicators has
to be made without much help of output indicators. The
situation improved considerably after the project restructuring
when some output indicators were adopted.
D. Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs). After the substantial       No comments
delays and weak monitoring and evaluation activities at the
earlier stage of the project implementation, the CPMU devised
a useful format for monitoring SPMUs' project implementation
and reporting it to the Bank on a quarterly basis. Although the
report placed more emphasis on the physical and financial
operations of the project, it also contained information on a
few important inputs, processes, and outputs of the project.
This report also served as a useful communication tool from
states to the central government and to the Bank.
However, the QPR lacked important information on the costs        Both GoI and World Bank have monitored financial
and financing of the project by project component and by the      progress in the project through expenditure categories
source of financing. It only reports project costs by the         (1 to 7) following the DCA. In the absence of a
category of expenditures financed by the Bank and transferred     computerized FMS, it was not possible to monitor the
by the central government to the states. It is not possible using component /sub-component wise expenditure against
these data to monitor the total costs and the effectiveness of    the allocation, which consisted of various activities
the service delivery modalities. For example, despite the         with different expenditure categories. In fact, at no
project emphasis placed on the supplementary feeding, its         point of time, this requirement was felt by any of the
costs are not readily available for analysis since it was not     Supervision Missions.
financed by the Bank.

Another important weakness of the QPR was the lack of             The statement is not correct.
monitoring on ICDS's coverage of the targeted women and           The project had target beneficiaries as: Children (0-6
children living in each block, district and states and on the     yrs): 74.60 lakh; Pregnant & Lactating women: 16.45
progress made in the behavioral changes made by the women,        lakh As against this, at the closure of the project, the
adolescent girls, and children who received health and            coverage of beneficiaries for supplementary food
nutrition educational/counseling services. The QPR did not        itself had been: Children (6-72 months)  67.68 lakh,
report on how many were target clients, how much progress         P & L Women  15.60 lakh in five original states
had been made in expanding the coverage of the target clients     alone [Ref. QPR March 31, 2006].
and how many are missed. The same statement can be made
on the coverage of the preschool component.                       Block/district wise information though available with
                                                                  the States, was not required to be monitored at the



                                                      42

                                                                 central level.

                                                                 Also, it is not feasible to collect information on
                                                                 behaviour changes through a regular reporting
                                                                 system. This cannot be done through the QPR. Only
                                                                 periodic evaluations can capture the behavioral
                                                                 changes in respect of infant feeding practices or some
                                                                 health practices, which has been done through the
                                                                 endline survey.
C. Endline Survey. The most noticeable fact in the monitoring    Baseline surveys under the ICDS-III Project in four
and evaluation of this project was that the endline survey was   original States of UP, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and
carried out in each of the five original project states by       Kerala were conducted with exclusive technical
October 2005. Despite the delay in collecting baseline data,     support and monitoring by the World Bank. In case of
the project ultimately produced both baseline and endline data   Tamil Nadu, endline evaluation of TINP-II was taken
during the project life, a good practice. The GOI is in the      as baseline. During the endline evaluation, it was
process of analyzing and comparing the results of the baseline   found that many critical indicators (e.g. child
and endline surveys for each state, district, and block to infer immunization, ANC of pregnant women, etc) were
the effects of the project inputs and processes. However, it     either missing or not analyzed in the baseline survey.
would be difficult to attribute the entire difference in the     Also, the sampling methodology and the indicators
health/nutrition outcomes to the project directly since no       selected in endline evaluation of TINP-II were
control groups were selected in the baseline surveys for         entirely different from that of baseline survey in four
comparison with non-project beneficiaries.                       other states, resulting in non-comparability of several
                                                                 key indicators in respect of Tamil Nadu during the
                                                                 endline evaluation.
                                                                 It would have been possible to assess the exclusive
                                                                 impact if the control groups were selected both in
                                                                 baseline and endline evaluation. However, the
                                                                 selection of control group for an analysis of impact on
                                                                 project vs non-project beneficiaries was never thought
                                                                 of during the baseline. This, incidentally not been
                                                                 attempted in earlier Bank assisted projects also.
                                                                 However, in the endline evaluation, a few ICDS
                                                                 General blocks, albeit in smaller scale were included
                                                                 to attempt a comparison of impact amongst the
                                                                 project and non-project beneficiaries.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
Measured against the project development targets agreed at       The need for a revision of the original developmental
both negotiations and Mid-Term Review restructuring, the         targets arose when it was felt that the same were too
project has attained "moderately satisfactory" achievement.      ambitious to achieve in the project. In view of this, it
                                                                 is but natural to assess the outcome of the project vis-
Moderate and severe malnutrition declined consistently in all    -vis the revised development targets which were
original participating states. Moreover, in all the states with  agreed upon by both the World Bank and GoI.
the exception of Rajasthan, the reduction was faster than the
historical trend 1% (percentage point) annual decline.           The rationale of comparing the end results with the
                                                                 original DOs is not clear. In our view, the endline
Only Kerala met the original target of 25% decline fully.        survey has clearly brought out the fact that the project
However, three other states Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and UP)      has been able to meet its targets in terms of revised
met the target "substantially", i.e. higher than 90% of the      performance monitoring indicators, especially in
intended target value.                                           reduction of moderate and severe malnutrition of
                                                                 under 3 children and therefore, the project outcome
Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh met the revised target of a 10      should have been rated as 'satisfactory' instead of

percentage point (2 points annually for 5 years) decline fully.  'moderately satisfactory'.
The same can be said for Kerala that reached a prevalence of



                                                      43

malnutrition of 3.5% (although a 10 percentage point decline
should have meant a 0.7% prevalence of malnutrition, i.e. an
impossible figure for practical purposes). Maharashtra and
Rajasthan met the revised target "substantially", reaching 82%
and 98% of the intended target value respectively.
8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
B. Service Quality Improvement. The most important quality
improvement was made through training of ICDS human              No comments
resources. Training was not confined to the five states, but was
made available to all 35 states and union territories. Almost
one million workers received pre-service training, and another
600,000 workers received refresher training, which eliminated
most training backlogs. The quality of AWW's performance
improved in general owing to this massive training.

Other quality improvement activities, such as health and         It is not correct to say that 'IEC and community
nutrition education/counseling, IEC and community                mobilization have been done sporadically as events
mobilization, management information system (MIS),               and campaigns, rather than regular business activities
monitoring and evaluation, workshops and discussion              since no one is exclusively responsible for them'. In
meetings (FREEQI), operational research, need to be more         all five original states where SPMUs were
strongly institutionalized. Progress in these improvements is    established, specialists on IEC, FREEQI and Training
constrained by the time and effort limitations of having a       were engaged, to chalk out state specific IEC
single AWC worker and helper. In this connection, an             strategies in consultation with all stakeholders in the
innovative model is being successfully tested out in the state   state and implement them. There are several examples
of Rajasthan, where the ICDS program provides additional         of success stories (e.g. UP, Tamil Nadu) in respect of
compensation to the Health Ministry's newly appointed ASHA       IEC interventions. However, except UP and Tamil
workers, so that each AWC can have one more worker for           Nadu, no state could document them which might
health/nutrition counseling/education activities in the village. have created the above impression.
IEC and community mobilization have been done sporadically
as events and campaigns, rather than regular business activities The last sentence on monitoring and evaluation is not
since no one is exclusively responsible for them. Monitoring     understood what it intends to say.
and evaluation has yet to be integrated in the MIS, which was
poorly implemented in some states (in particular, Uttar
Pradesh).

D. Targeting and Community Participation. Despite the Bank's     Basis of the assumption that the targetting of the
repeated emphasis especially at the mid-term review              under 3 children or pregnant and lactating women of
restructuring, the project did not achieve much in improving     the poorest households has not improved in the
targeting. The credit agreement was amended to target ICDS       project needs to be elaborated before coming to any
services, especially regular health/nutrition counseling, to     conclusion.
children in the 0-3 age group and pregnant and lactating
women of the poorest households. However, there were no          If one looks at the endline survey results, all
agreements between the GOI and the Bank on the operational       indicators relating to under 3 children excepting that
guidelines or norms to implement the targeting policy. Rather,   of exclusive breastfeeding, have improved
the GOI continued emphasizing the universalisation of the        significantly during the project period.
program.
                                                                 It needs to be noted that universalisation of ICDS is
                                                                 the mandate of the present UPA Government. The
                                                                 Apex Court of the country has also directed the
                                                                 Government to 'have a disbursement centre (AWC)
                                                                 in every settlement'. The Ministry of WCD has been
                                                                 taking all necessary measures to universalize the
                                                                 ICDS with quality.




                                                     44

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
A. The Bank and the government should agree on the timing
of government approval of a Bank-assisted project. The Bank      It is like 'chicken and egg' story. Cabinet approves a
should not go to the Board before the Cabinet approves the       proposal only after the IDA Credit is sanctioned.
project proposal, so that the project can become effective soon  However, it can certainly be ensured, through proper
after Board approval. This process will eliminate protracted     coordination between the Bank and GOI, that undue
project effectiveness and start-up delays (Section 7.1).         gap does not remain between the two approvals.

B. At negotiations, the Bank and Government should discuss
and agree on the stability or longevity of project management    It is a good a suggestion in the interest of an efficient
staff to stem the adverse effects of the high staff turnover     Project Management. However, it is not always
rates. Alternatively, a project should include repeated training possible to adhere to it as Project Staff, both in
programs for local staff members, especially in procurement      CPMU and SPMU, are drawn from various organized
and disbursement issues (Sections 7.1; 7.4; 10.2).               services and transfers are inevitable part of the
                                                                 system.
C. Lessons learned from previous projects, both positive and
negative, should be rigorously analyzed and applied to the       While it may be true that nutrition and health
subsequent project design, and a new initiative should be pilot  education component did not receive as much focus
tested on a small scale. The health and nutrition aspects of the as it deserved, it would not be proper to conclude that
ICDS program have not been adequately implemented under          it is due to non-availability of a second worker as no
the current project due mainly to the one worker and one         operational research (Time & Work study) has been
helper model of the AWC, although alternatives have been         carried out to assess the workload of AWWs.
demonstrated in other projects. Also, this project, like ICDS I
and II projects, suffered from serious problems with project
funds release, procurement, and disbursement. GOI and the
Bank should have anticipated such problems since this project
was a third operation of the same nature and modality in the
same WCD sub-sector but on a larger scale. However, no
specially designed preventive measures were taken under this
project (Sections 7.2 A; 7.4; 10.2).

D. The quality at entry of the project profoundly affected
efficiency of project implementation. The inclusion of a         Agreed
nation-wide training component without proper appraisal and
the lack of defined monitoring and evaluation indicators at
negotiation delayed the start-up of the project and adversely
affected the subsequent project implementation processes.
Baseline data should be collected early so that it can serve as
a basis for preparing and agreeing on Project Implementation
Plans (Sections 7.2 A; 10.1).

F. In addition to input and process indicators, more output
indicators (e.g. proportion of mothers who changed their child   Agreed
caring behaviors) should be used, so that the input and process
indicators can be more persuasively linked to project outcome
indicators. The collected monitoring and evaluation indicators
should be analyzed and disseminated for policy making and
supervision. Inclusion of control groups for comparison in
both baseline and endline evaluation schemes would enhance
the evaluation effectiveness (Section 7.3).

I. A child development program should be conceived and
planned comprehensively and inter-sectorally, but it is          It is a good suggestion. However, operational



                                                      45

efficient to provide the necessary inputs and actions by each       modalities need to be carefully worked out in such
individual agency (Ministry) in close coordination with other       multi-sectoral projects. Concerned sectors
involved agencies. Institutional arrangements are essential to      (Ministries) need to be involved at every stage of
ensure the necessary coordination. In supporting a multi-sector     project cycle starting with project identification.
program such as ICDS, the Bank should also ensure such
institutional coordination between related sectors such as
education, health, and nutrition. It is inefficient for the Bank to
assist a multi-sector program like ICDS with the inputs of one
sector such as the nutrition sector loan alone. ICDS will
benefit more with Bank's inputs from other sectors such as
education and health (Sections 9; 10.1).

J. A specific investment project is not an optimal tool for
meeting the varied needs and capacities of different states in a    No comments
large federated nation as India. Once the Government's project
preparation and implementation capacity is increased and
experience accumulated, a program loan approach would be
preferred with different roles played by the central
government, states, and the Bank (Section 9).




                                                       46

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    47

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Note, September, 11, 1995.
2. Project Appraisal Document, May 27, 1998.
3. Consolidated and Central Project Proposal, Department of Women and Child
   Development, Ministry of Human Resource Development, GOI, New Delhi, July 1999
4. Project Implementation Plan: Udisha, Department of Women and Child Development,
   Ministry of Human Resource Development , Government of India, New Delhi, July 1999
5. National Plan of Action on Nutrition, Food and Nutrition Board, Department of Women
   and Child Development, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of
   India, New Delhi, 1995.
6. Approach Paper to the Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002). Planning Commission,
   Government of India, New Delhi, 1997.
7. Implementation Completion Report on the Integrated Child Development Services
   Project (IDA-2173-IN) for India (Report No. 17756), The World Bank, April 28, 1998.
8. Implementation Completion Report on the Second Integrated Child Development Project
   (IDA- 2470-IN) for India (Report N o. 25610-IN), The World Bank, January 31, 2003.
9. Implementation Completion Report on the Nutrition/Integrated Child Development
   Services (ICDS) Component of the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project
   (IDA-30520-IN) for India (Draft Report), The World Bank, April 2006.
10. Subramaniyam, P. 2006. Qualitative Assessment of the WCD/ICDS-III Project, New
    Delhi, (June 7).
11. Gragnolati, Michele, Meera Shekar, Monica Das Gupta, Caryn Bredenkamp and Yi-
    Kyoung Lee. 2006. India
12. Strengthening ICDS for Reduction of Child Undernutrition in India: The Next Steps.
    Draft Report of the National Consul tation on Child Undernutrition & Integrated Child
    Development Services in India (dated June 16, 2006), organized by the Ministr y of
    Women and Child Development, Government of I
13. Three Decades of ICDS: An Appraisal. Executive Summary (Draft). National Institute of
    Public Cooperation and Child Dev elopment, March 2006.
14. SRSBulletin: Sample Registration System, Registrar General, India, Vol. 33; No 1.
    (April) 1999.
15. Sample Registration System Bulletin. Registrar General, India. Vol. 36; No. 2. (October)
    2002.




                                           48

Annex 13. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report



1. Introduction
The Phase-III of the World Bank assisted Integrated Child Development Services Project
(Women & Child Development Project), aimed at accelerating the improvement of the
nutrition and health status of children 0-6 yrs and women, by increasing the quality and
impact of the ICDS programme, originally in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. In addition, the Project aimed to strengthen
the ICDS programme in all 35 States/UTs, by improving the quality of training of ICDS
functionaries (called Project 'Udisha').

Project Design: The ICDS-III project was designed based upon the experiences gathered
during the implementation of the earlier World Bank assisted ICDS-I and II Projects.
Similar with ICDS-I & II Projects, ICDS-III was also built upon the existing model of
ICDS. All these projects had been instrumental in augmenting the resources of Govt of
India to accelerate coverage of the ICDS programme among the needy population of the
country. One of the key characteristics of the project design has been flexibility in terms
of management, and programme implementation by bringing in decentralization of
programme support activities like IEC, innovatives and monitoring to district and block
levels.

Coverage: The ICDS-III Project was made effective in October 1999 for a period of five
years in five States of India covering Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan in the northern part,
Maharashtra in the western part, and Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the southern part of the
country. The project envisaged introducing ICDS services in 318 'new' blocks and
strengthening and improving service quality and management in 685 existing ('old')
blocks in these States. The distinctive feature of the coverage in the project had been that
of inclusion of 69 tribal blocks (in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala), 51 coastal blocks
(in Kerala), 804 rural disadvantaged blocks (in five States), and 79 urban blocks with
poor outreach of basic services (in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala) in the project.

Specific Objectives: The specific objectives of the ICDS-III Project are: (i) to improve
quality of service delivery to beneficiaries, (ii) to expand ICDS to benefit uncovered
communities, (iii) to strengthen institutional framework for programme implementation,
(iv) to consolidate gains made by earlier World Bank assisted Projects, (v) to replicate
successful innovations and initiatives from previous projects and (vi) to introduce new
activities in line with the latest paradigms of child development.

Project Inputs: In order to effectively achieve the objectives of the project, the project has
been divided into two primary components, viz., (i) Service Delivery, and (ii)
Programme Support. Under each of these components, there are sub-components and
activities. The Project provides some additional inputs over and above the inputs
admissible in the ICDS General Scheme viz, construction of civil works, hardware inputs
for better service delivery (adult weighing scales, display boards, outdoor play materials,
water filters, etc) and several quality improvement (innovatives, study tour, FREQI,



                                              49

Training for IEC etc) and Monitoring & Evaluation activities (development of
computerized MIS, Social Assessment and Operational Research Studies, Baseline and
Endline Surveys).

Re-structuring: The Project was re-structured in 2003 keeping in view the progress and
utilize full IDA allocations. The States of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand (from erstwhile, ICDS-II Project), Orissa, and Uttaranchal were included in
the ICDS-III Project w.e.f. October 2002. Provisions were made for Civil Works,
Innovatives and AG Scheme in all the aforesaid re-structured six States. In addition,
provision for base cost for 422 blocks was made in the States of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar,
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Besides, provisions of Rs. 42.15 crore have been made for
construction of 4496 Anganwadi Buildings in the non-World Bank, non-NE and Sikkim
States.

2. Development Objectives & Achievement
In the original project design, the following impact objectives were made:

 Reduction in % of severely malnourished 0-36 month old children by 25
 Reduction in % of moderately malnourished 0-36 month old children by 25;
 Reduction in % babies born with low birth weight by 25;
 Contribute to a reduction in infant mortality rate by10; and
 Contribute to a reduction in maternal mortality rate by10

However, during the mid-term review in 2003-04, it was felt that the targets set were
rather too ambitious and not based on any scientific evidence. After detailed
deliberations, the key performance indicators (PMIs) of the project were revised during
March 2004, and grouped into seven input indicators, another seven process indicators
and one impact indicator. The single impact indicator in the project that has been re-set is
as follows:

'Reduction in severe and moderate malnutrition in 0-36 month old children (<-2SD,
NCHS Growth Standards) in the project blocks at the rate of 2% per annum in project
blocks (as against non-project & non-ICDS Blocks) presuming a secular trend of 1% in
the country.'

There are three overall assessments of the performance of the project. They are:
The revised impact indicator, namely, 2% annual reduction in percentage of underweight
children in the 0-36 month age group has been achieved to the extent of 85% of the
target. That is, if the target is taken as 10% reduction in five years of effective project
implementation, the actual achievement has been 8.5% as per the endline survey (2005).
This difference has also been found to be statistically significant (p<0.0001). [Figure 1]

Most of the quality inputs of the project, such as institutional development, training, IEC,
empowerment of adolescent girls, FREQI, awards and incentives, operations research,
study tours, mobility to supervisory staff, and computerized MIS system have all been
developed and put in place. Capacity building through training has been implemented all



                                               50

over the country with more than cent per cent achievements vis--vis PIP targets in
clearing backlogs of untrained ICDS functionaries. The establishment of a result-oriented
M & E system both at the central and state levels, clearance of the huge backlogs of job
training of ICDS functionaries, especially that of Anganwadi workers, and increased
capacity in implementing the IEC activities focusing on the needs of under-threes, are
considered to be major achievements of the project.

However, as the end line evaluation reveals, there is a further need for strengthening
service delivery to under- three children; particularly focusing on activities such as
exclusive breastfeeding, regular monthly weighing of under-three children, proper record
and follow-up on growth monitoring and systematic referral for growth faltering and
other infections. The BCC component is also required to be strengthened to successfully
reach out to all target groups viz, women and mothers of 0-6 yrs children and adolescent
girls.

Figure 2 shows the State-wise reduction in percent of underweight (0-36 months; <-
2SD). It may be seen that Uttar Pradesh achieved a maximum reduction of 13.7
percentage points, followed by Tamil Nadu with a reduction of 11.4 percentage points.
Next comes Maharashtra with a reduction of 9.2 percentage points, followed by Kerala
with a reduction of 7.83 percentage points and Rajasthan with a reduction of 4.1
percentage points. All these reductions have been found to be statistically significant
with p<0.0001.


Figure 1




However, the reductions in the proportions of severely malnourished children (0-36
months; <-3SD) considered separately (<-2SD figures also include <-3SD) are not as
significant as the reductions in underweight children. The overall reduction is only 1.4
percentage points (Figure 1). That is, from 14.8% in BLS, it has dropped to 13.4% in the
ELS. A state-wise analysis would reveal that the maximum reduction (7.1%) has been
recorded by Uttar Pradesh, followed by Maharashtra (5.1%) and Rajasthan recorded a


                                            51

decrease of 1.7% in this indicator. Tamil Nadu and Kerala have not recorded practically
any reductions ( in Tamil Nadu, it has remained at 13.2% both in BLS and in ELS and in
Kerala it has very slightly decreased from 2.4% in BLS to 2.3% in ELS).


Figure 2




The achievements under the other Revised Key Performance Indicators in respect of five
original states are as follows:




                                           52

Source: (i) QPR dated March 31, 2006, CPMU, MWCD, GOI; (ii) ELS 2005
** Not available
$ For all 35 States/UTs
  Actual percentages as per the endline survey 2005.


It may be seen from the above table that the performance under most input indicators are
satisfactory, low performance is noticeable under procurement and supply of pre-school
kits and medicine kits. FREQI meetings have also been low. As for Process Indicators,
performance has been equally satisfactory in respect of most of the key indicators
(discussed in a later section). However, it has been low under important processes such
as consumption of IFA tablets and children being exclusively breastfed.


                                               53

3. Reaching out to Uncovered Areas
One of the objectives of the project was to support the Government of India's initiative of
universalisation of ICDS by expanding services to the uncovered communities. Towards
that end, the project has achieved its objective. During the first three years of project
implementation, ICDS services were introduced in 318 new blocks and 44,289 AWCs in
the States of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala. In Tamil Nadu all blocks
covered under the project were the existing blocks, i.e., ICDS Scheme was already in
place. As on March 31, 2006, the project covered a total of about 67.68 lakh 6-72 months
children and 15.60 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers as beneficiaries of supplementary
nutrition both in old and new blocks in five original project states. When compared with
the number of beneficiaries as on March 31, 2001, there has been an increase of 43
percent in children and 42 per cent of pregnant and lactating mothers.

4. Strengthening Service Delivery - Procurement of Goods and Equipments
The project envisaged procurement of goods & equipments on recurring and non-
recurring basis to strengthen the service delivery in AWCs. While medicine kits, pre-
school kits, IFA tablets and de-worming tablets were recurring items, baby and adult
weighing scales, display boards, outdoor-indoor play materials and medicine boxes etc.
were non-recurring items. Procurement was to be made by following the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement of Civil Works, Goods & Equipments. However, due to
procedural delays, many States could not undertake and complete the procurement of all
recurring items as per the prescribed schedule. In a few cases, the bids had to be
cancelled and re-advertised leading to delays. Also, the World Bank's requirement of
WHO-GMP certification for the firms to be eligible for participation in tenders of
supplying medicine kits, proved to be a hurdle in timely procurement of medicine kits.
As a result, none of the original five States could procure medicine kits more than twice
in the Project period of 6.5 years.

5. Financial Management and Monitoring
There were no major issues as far as the Financial Management and Monitoring under
the Project was concerned. The Project States started filing Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) from March 2000 onwards. The LACI compliant Financial Management System
(FMS) for which software was also developed could not be implemented due to lack of
capacity in the SPMUs. All in all, Financial Management & its monitoring were
appropriate. Under the Project, SOEs of Rs.1505 crore approximately have been filed
with the World Bank as against the approved allocations of Rs.1523 crore. Nonetheless,
release of funds to the State Governments to pass it on to SPMUs and States ICDS
Directorates through treasury system led to delays in some cases.

6. Women's Empowerment - Adolescent Girls Scheme
The project has two types of interventions under this component, viz, (i) Adolescent Girls
Prophylaxis against Anaemia: To break the intergenerational malnutrition cycle, special
emphasis was placed on preventive strategies in malnutrition reduction. Provision of IFA
supplementation to all adolescent girls in both old and new AWCs was made in all five
States as a new initiative and activity. (ii) Adolescent Girls Scheme: In addition to above,



                                              54

State Specific AG Scheme was introduced in the States of Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu
keeping in view the importance which the adolescence stage plays in the life cycle of a
female child, warranting a lot of care and attention for her proper physical and mental
growth. In other states also, adolescent girls' groups have been formed. In addition, in
select districts across the states, the GOI are supporting a program for the adolescent girls
(Kishori Shakti Yojana), particularly focusing on their health and nutrition education.
The Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu projects also focused on providing training to the AGs in
life skills including the basics of reproductive and child health, HIV/AIDS, legal and
political rights of women. Points like proper age at marriage for women and the
importance of education; besides proper health and hygiene practices are highlighted in
such training programs. Building of self-confidence in adolescent girls is another
important component of their training. In some states, such training also includes
vocational training. The adolescent girls also visit the AWCs and try to help the AWWs
in their work, particularly in areas like bringing children to the Centres, organizing their
weighing, in feeding sessions, in teaching the children the basics of health and hygiene
and in imparting pre-school education. The Kerala training program focuses on the
problem of high rates of suicide among adolescents in that state, by including some
counseling against such a practice. The members of the adolescent girls' groups are also
weighed regularly to monitor changes in their weight.

7. Infrastructure Development - Civil Works
Infrastructure development entails construction of AWC buildings and CDPO offices-
cum-godowns, installation of handpumps for safe drinking water and provision of
equipments, furniture etc in the ICDS blocks and district offices. Originally the project
targeted construction of 14121 AWCs, 440 CDPOs offices and installation of 5232
handpumps in five states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil
Nadu. Against these targets, the original states have an achievement of 91 percent of
targeted AWCs, 97 per cent of targeted CDPO offices and 84 per cent of handpumps as
on March 31, 2006. After the re-structuring, the new six States were provided
construction of 6569 AWCs, 57 block offices and installation of 6674 handpumps during
2004. Against these targets, the states could complete 71 per cent of AWCs, 77 per cent
of CDPO offices and 56 per cent of handpumps. Due to administrative problems, state of
Bihar could not show any progress in the construction work. During the re-structuring, a
total of 4489 AWC buildings were approved for construction in 11 States/UTs, which
were to be built as 'Model AWCs' by mobilizing funds from other resources and in
convergence with the rural development, education department etc. The progress,
however, is not satisfactory. About 50 per cent of the sanctioned Model AWCs in eleven
States/UTs could be constructed till the closing of the project.

One of the major achievements in developing the infrastructure under the project has
been increased participation of the local self-government and community in general in
supporting this critical activity. In Kerala, the responsibility of construction of
Anganwadi building was handed over to Local Self Governments (LSGs). This
facilitated local planning, implementation and monitoring of civil works. Even though
there had been instances of procedural delays, there was increased community ownership
in implementing this particular scheme. Some LSGs even contributed their share over



                                               55

and above the fund provided by the World Bank for installation of handpumps/wells.
Tsunami Buildings: After the devastating Tsunami in late 2004, in which coastal areas of
Tamil Nadu and Kerala were greatly affected and many AWCs were washed away, the
project responded with sanctioning construction of additional 65 AWC buildings in
Tamil Nadu and 40 buildings in Kerala immediately. These are under various stages of
completion and are expected to provide relief to the children affected by the calamity.

8. Quality Improvement Activities
Information, Education and Communication (IEC): IEC has been one of the major
interventions in the project. The project laid special emphasis on the IEC by focusing on
the communications for behavior change (BCC) for appropriate child caring and rearing
practices in the villages. A major shift in the IEC strategy under the project has been in
addressing the needs of under-threes through family based interventions instead of
centre-based interventions. Following the guidelines developed by CPMU, State-specific
IEC strategies were developed through series of consultations at the State level with the
State based development organizations and other stakeholders. States adopted various
methodologies for implementing the IEC. Some of the media tools and channels which
have been used by different states are:- (i) interpersonal communication through home
visits and nutrition and health education session, (ii) social mobilization through door-to-
door contacts, rallies, gold art, mobile video van, gramin mela (rural fair), exhibitions,
special campaign days etc, (iii) Print/Electronic/Audio-Visual Media such as brochures,
ICDS newsletter, booklets and guidelines, flip-books, leaflets, pamphlets, calendars,
hoardings & boards, audio jingles, TV spots, wall paintings, documentary films etc.
Many states did not limit the IEC interventions to the ICDS blocks under the project, but
also covered the entire state. This is a good and positive aspect of the scheme.

Overall, the project has achieved a 91% (Rs.227.6 million) utilization of the allocations
made under this component (Rs. 250 million). State-wise, Maharashtra tops the list with
118% utilization, followed by Rajasthan (96%), Tamil Nadu (94%), Uttar Pradesh
(82%), and Kerala (64%).

Impact of IEC is visible through some of the significant changes in household behaviors
in infant and young child feeding practices, as revealed in ELS. The findings indicate
positive changes in the infant feeding practices during the period of ICDS-III:
     Early (within 2 hours of birth) initiation of breastfeeding (36.4 percent in BLS to
        52.6 percent in ELS)
     Complementary feeding for children aged 6-9 months (59 percent to 63.8 percent)
     Consumption of Vitamin-A rich food by children aged 6-36 months (51.7 percent
        to 70.9 percent)
     Receipt of Vitamin-A dose for children aged 12-36 months (55.5 percent to 70.5
        percent)

However, exclusive breastfeeding up to six months remains to be a problem. Only 22.8
percent children upto six months were reported to have been exclusive breastfed (BLS:
28.3 percent). The study reveals that about 37 percent of the children upto six months



                                              56

were given plain water alongwith breast milk. Significant progress is indicated in
antenatal care of the pregnant women, immunization, de-worming and treatment of
diarrhoea.

Growth monitoring of under-3 children improved overall (from 66.9 to 82.5 percent).
The increase occurred in UP, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala, whereas Tamil Nadu
already had 100 percent growth monitoring. Availability of weighing scales went up in
UP, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, contributing to an overall increase from 73.5 to 81.7
percent. Practice of weighing at birth showed overall improvement from 40.0 percent to
46.2 percent. Incidence of low weight at birth declined from 15.4 percent to 13.0 percent.

Impact of IEC is evident in increased awareness of infant breastfeeding practices among
AWWs. But knowledge transfer from AWWs to adolescent girls and women remains a
matter of concern.

Free Expression for Quality Improvement (FREQI): FREQI is a novel concept
incorporated in the ICDS-III project under the component of Service Quality
Improvement. The rationale for introducing FREQI arose from the existent hierarchical
patterns or Top-to-Bottom Approach of the Government sector, due to which the mid and
grass root level functionaries hesitate to air their views in a frank manner. FREQI
provided an opportunity for the formation of quality circles (based on total quality
management or TQM techniques) to encourage better interaction among AWCs so that
they could exchange notes freely, bring them to the notice of the supervisory staff and
with their support achieve higher quality of service delivery. Also, the FREQI process
provided an opportunity for effective convergence of representatives from various line
departments viz. Health, Education, PRI etc. FREQI has been proved to be a powerful
tool involving each and every functionary to have positive impacts on overall quality
improvement of the programme.

Under this process, meetings of ICDS functionaries are organized on a periodic basis
(quarterly) at State, District, Block and Sector levels involving representatives from the
community as well, using participatory approach. An effort has also been made to make
these meetings process and output-oriented with focus on discussing quality contents,
thereby facilitating preparation of action plans. Issues discussed in FREQI meetings are
classified as resource based, based without resources, Government resource based,
community co-operation based, and description of an innovative work plan. Some of the
major problems which were identified due to FREQI meetings are (i) absence of growth
monitoring charts and weighing scales; (ii) Dislike of the supplementary food by the
community, (iii) operational problems regarding shifting of AWCs to primary schools
and (iv) absence of referral slips, etc. Kerala has conducted the maximum number of
FREQI meetings and used up the entire allocation, followed by Tamil Nadu with 98%
utilization, Uttar Pradesh with 97%, Rajasthan with 88% and Maharashtra with 74%
(overall achievement is 88%).

Study Tours: For improving the overall quality of the programme and learning through
experiences of other states, study tours have been organized for ICDS officials from the



                                              57

Directorate and field functionaries' viz. DPOs, CDPOs, Supervisors and AWWs. Inter
district and inter-state visits were organized by all the states.

9. Capacity Building of ICDS Functionaries - Project Udisha
The National Training component of ICDS-III Project was aimed at improving the
quality of ICDS services in the country by providing for improved training of ICDS
functionaries all over the country; strengthening/establishing training centres; developing
training materials, etc. Christened as 'UDISHA', the focus of the program has been on
eliminating the heavy backlogs in job and refresher training of all functionaries. The
abysmally low rates of allowances that were in existence at the time of preparation of the
project have been raised to decent levels under the project to facilitate better participation
and concentration of the trainees on the training provided. Capacities of existing
Anganwadi Training Centres (AWTCs) and Middle Level Training Centre (MLTCs)
have been further strengthened to take up such increased responsibilities and new
AWTCs and MLTCs have also been established for the purpose.

The project has achieved overall its main objective of clearing the backlogs of job
training. The overall performance under job training for the different categories of
functionaries has been reported as 115% of the PIP target, while such performance under
refresher training has been reported as 128%. The performance figures as per revised
targets are 84% for all categories of functionaries under job training and 68% under
refresher training.

The following are some of the new initiatives taken during the course of the
implementation of Project Udisha:

Flexibility in providing training to ICDS Functionaries through MobileTraining Teams:
Different options have been given for organizing Job Training courses for AWWs. The
State Government/Union Territories will be free to adopt one or more options depending
upon their requirements. One such option is training through Mobile Training Teams,
which is provided at the project level/block level by key trainers. The mobile training
strategy has been in full operation in Tamil Nadu and partly in the states of Uttar
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkimand Jharkhand.

Induction Training: To operationalize the newly sanctioned Anganwadi Centres and also
to clear the backlogs of training of newly recruited Anganwadi Workers, short duration
induction training was introduced in several States.

Other Training: A new concept introduced to involve other stakeholders for effective
implementation of ICDS through Other Training Component, whereby the states are
given the flexibility to identify state specific problems that need more focused or
innovative training and to take up such training schemes. Most states have undertaken
such 'other training'. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have done the largest number of such other
training schemes. Several joint training programmes have been organized with district
level officials, Panchayat members, community leaders, women committees, health and
education officials. Special programmes are also held on issues like  (i) immunization



                                               58

(ii) breast-feeding (iii) community mobilizations (iv) communication skills (v) skill
training on pre-school education (vi) orientation training for mothers on food
management at home (vii) training of adolescent girls (viii) training of self help groups
(ix) training on personal hygiene and sanitation etc. However, there is no evidence-based
impact assessment of such training schemes.

Reduced duration of Training: To cope with the backlog of training of different ICDS
functionaries and to immediately operationalize the newly sanctioned Anganwadi
Centres, the duration of training has been reduced twice during the project period for
different types of training without compromising the quality and content of such training.

Impact of Training: While an impact evaluation exclusively for the Project Udisha could
not be taken up during the closing year of the project, the ELS carried out in five States
under ICDS-III Project has captured some of the aspects of the training and its impact on
service delivery. According to at least 50 percent of AWWs who were interviewed in
ELS, the service delivery has been improved due to training in the following key areas:

 Preschool activities
 Household survey
 Immunization
 Creating awareness on health and hygiene among mothers
 Nutrition education to adolescent girls

10. Monitoring and Evaluation

The key objective of the M & E system established under the ICDS-III Project has been
to facilitate collective and regular self-assessment of performance and outcomes by all
stakeholders (State Govt., GoI and World Bank). Towards that end, M & E system under
the project has been continuously improved during the project period through several
learning processes and active participation of the stakeholders to make M & E a more
result-oriented exercise.

A two-pronged strategy was adopted in the project to strengthen the M & E component.
First, based on the PIPs, an information needs assessment was carried out in the
beginning for gathering information commensurate with the approved activities.
Accordingly, quarterly monitoring of key PMIs, viz, project inputs and outputs
(processes) were taken up through regular reporting (quarterly progress reports) by the
States, periodic review meetings at the State/national level and specific field visits by
component managers. Computerized MIS has been developed through Technical
Agencies and implemented in the States of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil
Nadu. There has been enhanced capacity to carry out necessary analysis of the data at the
State level with continuous technical support by the CPMU. Information on key PMIs
have regularly been compiled and analyzed for review and taking appropriate corrective
actions to accelerate implementation. One of the major achievements in the process of
strengthening MIS in the States has been an overall impact on understanding the
importance of M & E activities which resulted in timely execution of some of the key



                                              59

activities in the project.

The second aspect of M & E in the project was to have periodic evaluation through
baseline/endline surveys, issue-specific operational research (OR) studies, and
continuous social assessments (CSA). All these studies were commissioned by the
project States through reputed Research Organizations. Findings of all evaluation studies
were shared with the key stakeholders in the State including field level functionaries.
CPMU played a pro-active role in providing technical support to the States in carrying
out these studies. Findings of the evaluation studies have helped the project management
in taking necessary corrective actions. During the project period, a total of 27 operational
research studies covering the issues of local child caring practices, supplementary
nutrition, communications need assessment, convergence with health, need assessment of
under three children, functioning of village level monitoring committees, efficacy of IFA
supplementation to AGs, IEC and community participation etc., were taken up in the
Project States. One round of social assessments, which were otherwise to be taken up at
the end of every year, was undertaken in the States. In the initial years, not much priority
could be accorded to the evaluation activities, especially in respect of social assessment
study and in-depth base line survey. This was due to the absence of required manpower
both at the central and state levels. The endline survey, initiated in April 2005 was an
intensive exercise to ensure the quality and consistent results to reflect the real impact of
the project in five original States. The process of the endline survey was made
participatory throughout the study period in association with all Research Agencies,
Project States, World Bank and also some of the experts on the subject to develop a
uniform survey methodology for better inter-State comparisons. The availability of both
a baseline and an endline survey in the project blocks following the same sampling
methodology provide a unique opportunity to gauge the actual contribution of the project
in achieving the development objectives.

11. Project Management

A Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) was established in the Ministry of Women
& Child Development at the central level in order to provide support the States for
project planning, necessary technical guidance and overall monitoring of the project
implementation. At the closing of the project, the CPMU has a Project Director, two
Project Managers (for Finance & Procurement and Training), an Assistant Director (for
M & E) and a Desk Officer (Finance), besides other support staff. Similarly, SPMUs
have been set up at the states with the personnel having expertise in the areas of IEC,
health, nutrition, M & E, and Finance & procurement. However, in the re-structured
states, no provision of SPMU could be made in view of the limited number of
interventions and short implementation period of 1.5 yrs (Oct 2002 to Sept 2004). This
has affected the project implementation to some extent in some of the States, viz. Bihar,
Jharkhand and Orissa in timely execution of the approved activities. Had the project not
faced the problems of turnover and appointment of generalists in lieu of specialists in
some cases, the results would have been much more significant.




                                             60

12. Best Practices/Success Stories

Several innovative schemes were implemented in the project States, some of which have
come out as 'best practices' in view of their immediate impact on the project
implementation. A few best practices are briefly summarized below.

(a) Awareness for behavioural change through Anganwadi Kala Jattha (Uttar
Pradesh)

In Uttar Pradesh an innovative approach towards social mobilization and awareness
campaign on nutrition and health education was adopted in the form of Anganwadi Kala
Jattha. The basic objective of such an initiative was to strengthen the enabling
environment created by ICDS functionaries through interpersonal communication, so that
they can target the community with specific messages repetitively through different
communication channels to bring about behaviours change in the community. During the
process of forming a group of AWWs by developing their interpersonal skills and by
understanding the local needs, a resource organization having required communication
and folk skills was identified for developing a module for this campaign. The idea was to
develop a team of talented AWWS to form 'Anganwadi Kala Jattha'. The AWWs, after
acquiring required skills, have been able to run this awareness and social mobilization
campaign in an effective and sustainable manner. A series of activities like rally, door-
to-door contact, wall writings, folk songs, Phad Presentation & Discussion, Nukkad
Natak, group discussion and quiz were conducted to mobilize and sensitise the
community. At the end, feedbacks were discussed in an open forum in a large group. By
performing live in front of a large audience, AWWS have gained immense confidence,
which has reflected in a positive improvement in their routine work of running AWCs.
Moreover, the extra remuneration received as part of the performing package has made
them more enthusiastic towards their work.

(b) Biannual Child Health and Nutrition Months (Bal Swasthya Poshan Mah) [Uttar
Pradesh]

Recognizing the importance of Vitamin A supplementation for child's health, a biannual
strategy through 'Bal Swasthya Poshan Mah' (BSPM-Child Health & Nutrition Month)
has been adopted in Uttar Pradesh to improve the existing poor coverage of Vitamin A
supplementation. BSPM is a biannual activity (6 months interval between two doses of
Vitamin A) being implemented in the entire state with joint efforts of Health and ICDS.
Under the BSPM strategy two months -- May and November, six months apart, have
been identified as health and nutrition months. During these months, health sector is
assigned with the task of providing immunization and other services to the beneficiaries
while ICDS sector is responsible for mobilizing beneficiaries for using the services by
organizing intensive social mobilization and IEC activities. The activities of these
biannual months have been linked with the Routine immunization days of ANM
(Wednesdays & Saturdays). Since its inception these months are being organized in June
and December because of frequent Pulse Polio rounds. BSPM months also focus on



                                              61

severely malnourished children towards which a fixed a day is organized as "Shishu
Aahar Samaroh" for prevention and management of severe malnutrition.




(c) Adolescent Girls' Club (Kerala)

Considering the importance of adolescence period in a life cycle, Adolescent Girls clubs
were constituted under each Anganwadi in the State was as an innovative initiative under
the ICDS-III Project. Adolescent Girls Club activities gave a boost to ICDS with greater
concern to the community in adolescent issues. The life-cycle approach was well
accepted by the community. Each AG club consists of not less than ten members and
they select representatives from among them and convene meeting twice in a month and
various activities are carried out regularly. The total number of clubs formed is 12060
and the number of members is estimated to be 350,055.

(d) Upgradation of AWCs as Community Resource Centres (Kerala)

In Kerala, another initiative was made to convert the AWCs into a Community Resource
Centres to cater to the health and nutrition needs of the community members. As part of
this initiative, a total of 247 AWCs in 14 Districts have been equipped with computers
and accessories. This initiative would be up-scaled during the 11th plan to upgrade all
AWCs as Community Resource Centres in the State.

13. Key Lessons Learnt

 For an effective taking off the project, establishment of SPMUs in the project states
    and all necessary project approval processes should be completed before the launch
    of the project. In ICDS-III Project, the initial 1.5 yrs was lost due to delays in
    obtaining necessary administrative approvals and putting all required manpower in
    place both in CPMU and SPMUs.



                                              62

 Presence of a dedicate project management unit both at the State levels and also at
  the central level has helped accelerate project implementation with required guidance
  and technical support, especially in financial management and procurement related
  issue, and also in carrying out some of the key M & E activities. However,
  appointment of specialists and continuity of the project personnel both in SPMUs and
  CPMU is essential for qualitative support in the project.
 Experiences in the project show that there is a need to further strengthen working
  with the community at grassroots level so as to bring about quality improvement and
  accountability delivery of services at the AWCs. In some of the States, local
  initiatives like Anganwadi Kala Jattha Dal in Uttar Pradesh involving in-house teams
  of AWWs and home visit counseling have been hugely successful and could be
  replicated in other states. In this regard, local flexibility and local innovations should
  be an integral part of the overall program.
 There is also a further need to reinforce effective convergence with PRIs and other
  departments (health, education, drinking water supply etc) to strengthen the
  community base in effective implementation of the ICDS program.
 Preparation of a district nutrition profile of each district on a periodic interval is
  desirable to ensure appropriate special interventions in the problem areas. This would
  help program managers at the district and state levels monitor the progress in
  achieving the objective of reduction of malnutrition more effectively.
 Since growth monitoring is an effective tool for assessing the nutritional status of a
  child and a key component of service delivery, there is an urgent need to establish a
  Nutritional Surveillance System upto the block level to monitor the nutritional status
  of severely and moderately malnourished children and take appropriate actions for
  their management.
 To ensure better service delivery and to infuse ownership of the program among the
  communities, it is essential that AWCs have their own buildings rather than
  functioning from primary school premises/AWWs' own houses/other rented places.
 The success of Monitoring & Evaluation in the project, identified as the 'best
  practices' in World Bank supported projects in India and elsewhere, was dependent
  on the technical capacities of the SPMUs and CPMU. The project gave an
  opportunity to prove that necessary expertise alongwith an overall understanding of
  the importance of M & E activities in the States could result in better project
  implementation and timely execution of activities. The lessons learned in the project
  has influenced the main programme in way of identifying the key performance
  indicators and also inclusion of operational research and social assessment studies in
  the States under M & E plan during the 11th Plan (2007-2012).
 As the ICDS is moving towards universalisation, it is imperative to establish a strong
  and effective monitoring mechanism to regularly monitor such a huge programme.
  A computerized system of monitoring and surveillance at all levels would ensure
  reliability and accuracy of data and enable the project authorities take appropriate
  remedial actions.
 Under the decentralized system adopted in training programme (Project Udisha),
  grants-in-aid are released to the State Governments/UT Administrations who on
  receipt of the funds further release it to AWTCs/MLTCs. The process of transfer of
  funds usually takes more than one month to reach the training institutions after


                                             63

    ascertaining their training requirements. This has affected implementation of the
    training programme.
 Other innovative training under Project Udisha having flexibility in financial norms,
    has added significance to the programme by way of increased involvement of other
    stakeholders in ICDS.
 IEC and FREQI activities under the ICDS-III Project in original five states have been
    instrumental in increasing the awareness level of AWWs on key nutrition and health
    issues.

14. Sustainability

ICDS-III Project gave an opportunity to undertake some of the key interventions e.g.
IEC, Innovatives, FREQI, Training, etc. for quality improvement as well as expansion of
the programme area. Many of these interventions are expected to be mainstreamed in
ICDS during the 11th Five Year Plan. It is hoped that the best practices/success stories
and positive lessons learnt in the project would be replicated in other states. It has already
been stated that some additional items were provided under the Project over and above
the items admissible in the ICDS (General) Scheme. All these additional
items/interventions are now sought to be replicated across the country and have been
proposed for ICDS (General) Scheme under the Eleventh Five Year Plan.

15. Overall Rating

Overall the performance of the ICDS-III/WCD Project can be rated as 'satisfactory' in
comparison with the previous Bank financed projects. The project has achieved its
development objectives of reduction of malnutrition in under three children. The
significant change in household behaviors in respect of infant and young child feeding
practices and increased awareness on nutrition and health issues, participation of other
stakeholders in the programme due to FREQI and other training components of the
project, is a pointer to the success of the project. The impact of the project could have
been much more significant had there been no bottlenecks in initial years and technical
expertise in some of key areas like nutrition and health was made available in SPMUs
and also in CPMU.

                                       Bottom of Form




                                              64

