Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17052-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 222.5 MILLION (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
WOMAN AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 27, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1998)
Currency Unit               =             Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rupees 38.6                 =             US$1.00
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWC                                  Anganwadi Center
AWTC                                 Anganwadi Training Center
AWW                                  Anganwadi Worker
ANM                                  Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
CAG                                  Comptroller and Auditor General of India
CARE                                 Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere
CAS                                  Country Assistance Strategy
CDPO                                 Child Development Project Officer
CED                                  Chronic Energy Deficiency
CPMU                                 Central Project Management Unit
DEA                                  Department of Economic Affairs
DWCD                                 Department of Women and Child Development
ERR                                  Economic Rate of Retum
FRR                                  Financial Rate of Return
GOI                                  Government of India
ICB                                  International Competitive Bidding
ICDS                                 Integrated Child Development Services
IDA                                  International Development Association
IEC                                  Information, Education and Communication
IFA                                  Iron Folic Acid
ITF                                  Interim Trust Fund
MIS                                  Management Information System
MLTC                                 Middle Level Training Center
NCB                                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                                  Non-Governmental Organization
NIPCCD                               National Institutional of Public Cooperation and Child Development
NSS                                  National Sample Survey
OED                                  Operations Evaluation Department
ORS                                  Oral Rehydration Salts
PDS                                  Public Distribution System
PIP                                  Project Implementation Plan
PMU                                  Project Management Unit
PSE                                  Pre-School Education
PRA                                  Participatory Rural Appraisal
RBI                                  Reserve Bank of India
RCH                                  Reproductive and Child Health
SA                                   Social Assessment
SC                                   Scheduled Caste
SRS                                  Sample Registration Survey
ST                                   Scheduled Tribe
TINP                                 Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
UNICEF                               United Nations Children's Fund
UP                                   Uttar Pradesh
UT                                   Union Territory
WFP                                  World Food Program
Vice President              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director            Edwin Lim
Sector Manager              Richard Skolnik
Task Team Leader            Anthony Measham



INDIA
WOMAN AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                              2
1. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project                     2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                           2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices   3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components                                                   4
2. Key Policy and Institutional Strengthening Supported by the Project  4
3. Benefits and Target Population                                       4
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                        5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection            5
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank
and/or Other Development Agencies                                    6
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design                  7
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                     9
5. Value Added of IDA/ ITF Support in this Project                      9
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                             9
2. Financial                                                           11
3. Technical                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                       12
5. Social                                                              13
6. Environmental Assessment                                            15
7. Participatory Approach                                              15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                      15
2. Critical Risks                                                      16



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Negotiations                                         17
2. Other Covenants                                                     17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                               18
I. Compliance with IDA Policies                                              18
Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5:   Financial Summary
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:   Documents in Project File
Annex 9:    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:  India at a Glance



INDIA
WOMAN AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
Date: May 23, 1998                                  Task Team Leader: Anthony Measham
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim                 Sector Manager: Richard Skolnik
ProjectID: IN-PA-35827  Sector: Nutrition           Program Objective Category: PA
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit      Program of Targeted Intervention:  Yes
Project Financing Data               [ ] Loan     [x] ITF          [ ] Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 222.5 million/US$300 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency     [      Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard Variable []    Fixed       []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5% per
annum
Service charge: 0.75% per
annum
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local            Foreign           Total
Government of India/states                                122.3            0.0             122.3
IDA                                                       300.0            0.0             300.0
Total        422.3            0.0             422.3
Borrower: Government of India
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of Women and Child
Development and Departments of Women and Child Development of the five project states.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999     2000      2001     2002      2003    2004
Annual    21         68        84        65      45       17
Cumulative     21        89       173      238     283       300
Project implementation period: 5 years   Expected effectiveness date: 9/30/1998   Expected closing date: 9/30/2003
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex J):
*  The goal is to improve the nutrition and health of pre-school-aged children and women, by increasing the quality,
impact, and cost-effectiveness of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) program in the states of
Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. In addition, the project aims to strengthen the
ICDS program in the remaining states and union territories, by improving the quality of worker training in each of
them.
Specific objectives are to:
- improve the nutrition, health and psychosocial status of children, 0-6 years of age, with particular emphasis
on preventing malnutrition in under-threes, and improve child care practices at the household level;
- improve the nutrition and health of women, particularly pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, and adolescent
girls; and
- empower adolescent girls, through increased awareness, to take better care of their personal and household
health and nutrition needs.
*  Progress toward these development objectives will be monitored and assessed on the basis of the key indicators
shown in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: 17241-IN    Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998
The Bank's CAS recognizes that India has among the lowest social indicators in the world and consequently
supports the Government of India's attempt to accelerate the pace of social development. Specifically, the Bank
gives priority to addressing nutritional issues through interventions linked with education, health and social welfare
services. The Bank's objective with regard to this is to (a) improve nutrition policies and the effectiveness and
efficiency of India's nutrition-related efforts; (b) build national health capacity; (c) improve primary care; and (d)
improve health systems and institution-building in selected states. Apart from this the Bank is also concerned about
reducing the high prevalence of child labor and improving the condition of women in the country. This project
reaffrms each of these objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.,
Malnutrition is a fundamental issue - famines no longer occur and severe malnutrition among children has
declined over the last four decades. However, 53% of children under four are underweight (1992-93); 30% of
newborns are of low birthweight; and more than half of Indian women are anemic. Micronutrient (iron, iodine,
vitamin A) malnutrition is a major problem. Malnutrition diminishes the human potential of half of Indian children
born and affects their growth, their health, and their educability. Malnutrition is a major constraint to development
and the quality of life.
Underfunding of nutrition efforts - the levels of public sector nutrition spending have increased over the past two
decades, but remain substantially below needs, especially in the poorer states, and relative to countries which have
succeeded in lowering malnutrition more than India, such as Sri Lanka and Indonesia.
Focus on quantity rather than quality - increases in nutrition spending have gone more to expanding the coverage
of the nutrition programs than to improving their quality. The ICDS program in particular has expanded faster than
institutional capacity to manage it, resulting in a massive backlog of untrained workers and low service quality.
Poor targeting - safety net programs, such as the Public Distribution System (PDS) of food, are not well targeted on
the poor women and children, and have relatively little impact on nutrition. ICDS services are targeted to the more



3
vulnerable age group of 0-6 year olds - but currently disproportionately benefit 4-6 year-old children, at the expense
of more nutritionally vulnerable, harder-to-reach 0-3 year-olds.
Failure to replicate success - the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition projects have been highly effective but have not
been replicated in other states.
Since the Third Five-Year Plan, India has consistently accorded high priority to reducing malnutrition. A National
Nutrition Policy, approved in 1993, sets forth a comprehensive, multi-sectoral strategy to reduce poverty,
unemployment, and malnutrition. GOI efforts to reduce malnutrition include food subsidies, especially via the
Public Distribution System (PDS), school feeding programs, food-for-work programs, poverty alleviation efforts,
and health programs. Since 1975, India has developed the world's largest program to address directly malnutrition,
providing growth promotion, supplementary food, pre-school education and health care to young children and
mothers -- the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) program managed by the Department of Women and
Child Development (DWCD). ICDS now covers about two-thirds of the development blocks in the country.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the following major sector issues:
*  reducing malnutrition, especially of children under three, which is a major goal of ICDS;
*  underfunding of nutrition - the project will increase the unit cost norms of ICDS in order to improve program
quality;
*  focus on quantity rather than quality - the project will support a large-scale effort to upgrade the quality of
existing ICDS institutions and services, and only a modest increase in coverage. Quality improvement efforts
will focus on strengthening the key areas of training and supportive supervision;
n poor targeting - the project will support introduction of tighter targeting on nutritionally vulnerable 0-3 year-
old children; and
*  failure to replicate success - inclusion of Tamil Nadu as a project state is facilitating adoption of lessons
learned from TINP.
The ICDS program was chosen as the best means to address the above issues, for the following reasons:
*  it is focused on young children and pregnant and nursing women; has a holistic approach to child development;
is targeted on the poor; and uses community workers;
*  evaluations show ICDS is relatively effective at reaching the poor and better targeted than the alternatives, e.g.,
the Public Distribution System (PDS) of food;
*  although national evaluations show ICDS suffers from implementation problems, it is more efficient and has
more impact than the alternatives;
*  ICDS is GOI's chosen instrument to address nutrition problems and has a basically sound design; and
*  ICDS management is more interested in quality improvement and more open to innovation and flexibility than
when ICDS I and II were prepared.
Within ICDS, the project will support early childhood education, which was not done in ICDS I and II, because of
its important contribution to early childhood development. However, the project design calls for a reduction in the
large number of tasks assigned to the village nutrition workers, in order to rationalize their workload.



4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Category         Cost Incl.    % of     Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing   Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
1. Service Delivr
Service Quality Improvement  Service Delivery      46.8       11.1       33.6        71.9
Adolescent Girls'          Service Delivery         4.1         1.0       3.2        78.3
Empowerment
Staffing and Infrastructure    Service Delivery   167.3       39.6      100.9        60.3
Development
2. Program Spprt
Managing and Institutional    Program Support      12.3        2.9        6.5        53.1
Development
Capacity Building for      Program Support          7.8        1.9        6.3        80.2
Training
IEC                        Program Support         11.2        2.6       10.7        95.5
Monitoring, Evaluation and    Program Support       6.5         1.5       5.8        89.1
Operational Research
3. National Training          Program Support
Training Improvement                              119.9       28.4      95.9         80.0
Worker Supply Improvement                          42.3       10.0      33.8         80.0
4. Central Component          Central Component
CPMU Establishment                                  4.2         1.0       3.3        78.7
Total            T    422.3         100  1  300.0        71.0
2. Key policy and institutional strengthening supported by the project:
Targeting of disadvantaged populations - The project will focus on the biologically vulnerable, particularly 0-3 year
olds and pregnant women. Further, tribal communities will also receive special attention through improved project
services and infrastructure development.
Decentralization and community participation - To increase community participation, this project includes activities
aimed at increasing community awareness and community use of AWCs, encouraging community management of
the program through the creation of appropriate structures, incorporating community contributions of land, labor
etc., and obtaining the beneficiary communities' feedback about program effectiveness. In addition, the project
supports greater flexibility and variety in the state-level approaches to project implementation.
Training - Improved worker training has been recognized as crucial to the success of the ICDS program. The project
supports this by making improved training the centerpiece of the project design, through enhanced fnancing norms
for training, increasing training capacity, support for state-wide training and IEC functions, and emphasis on
technical capacity and delivery of quality services. The national training component will provide an important input
into improving the quality of ICDS in all states and union territories, in addition to the five states which are to
receive a broader array of inputs.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  Main project benefits will be: better nutrition, health and psychosocial development for children 0-6 years of



5
age; and better health and nutrition for women, especially pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and adolescent
girls.
*  Poverty alleviation: the project will focus predominantly on the poor, scheduled caste, and scheduled tribal
populations.
*  Gender equity, through special efforts to include girl children in the program; recruitment of women
community nutrition workers and other women program staff; and development of women's empowerment and
adolescent girls' schemes.
*  Improved impact and cost-effectiveness of the ICDS program in which GOI and the states invest heavily.
*  Development of institutional capacity to improve program quality on a continuing basis.
*  Adult women from poor households, through efforts to organize them to improve their access to information
and economic opportunities.
*  Direct beneficiaries of services at nutrition centers will be mainly poor children aged 0-6 years, and poor
women of reproductive age, and adolescent girls. The total number of ICDS blocks to be covered during the
project period is 1036 (rural old: 619; rural new: 274; urban: 38; tribal/coastal: 105). ICDS currently covers
4214 blocks or 73% of the 5738 development blocks in the country. The project will cover approximately
111,260 anganwadi centers and will provide services to about 18.5 million direct beneficiaries, and about 2.3
million indirect beneficiaries in about 10.8 million at-risk households.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period:             The project will be of five years duration, starting in fiscal year 1999
and ending in fiscal year 2003.
Executing agencies:                Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of
Women and Child Development, and Departments of Women and
Child Development (DWCD) or Social Welfare of the participating
states and union territories (UTs).
Project coordination:              Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) in DWCD, and five state
PMUs.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department
of Women and Child Development.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (see Annex 6):
DWCD and states and UTs will maintain accounts of project expenditures in conformity with the accounting
standards of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) and acceptable to the Bank. Expenditures
incurred by DWCD and the states UTs will be audited by CAG or his designated representative as in ongoing
projects, and the audit reports will be submitted annually in accordance with Bank standards. DWCD will
submit one audit report of its own, and another, consolidated audit report for all participating states and UTs
within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: CPMU and the five state project management units.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
These alternative project approaches were considered and rejected:
a) assisting GOI in its efforts to better target the food distribution system (PDS). This was rejected because the
ICDS approach, focused on young children - the most nutritionally vulnerable - offered a more effective way of
improving malnutrition;
b) assisting GOI to mount a major national effort to combat micronutrient malnutrition. This was rejected because
of relatively low GOI interest, and because the multiplicity of agencies involved posed a major barrier to
effective implementation;



6
c) providing ICDS services via the private sector was explored and found infeasible, beyond the current
substantial training role and limited service provision from NGOs. A background paper on private sector
alternatives is in the project files; and
d) a similar approach to the proposed project was considered, but with a larger or smaller number of states. The
alternative of a smaller number of states was rejected because the potential demonstration effort was judged to
be less than necessary to have an impact on ICDS on a national scale. A larger number of states appeared to be
infeasible, given the implementation capacity of GOI, and the preparation and supervision capacity of the Bank.
Finally, no realistic alternative to the ICDS program exists to meet the proposed development objectives.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                     Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-Fmancd
Nutrition, early childhood   Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project  Completed        S
development and maternal  (C-1003)
health                   Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition  Completed             S
Project (C-2158)
Integrated Child Development Services   Completed             S
Project (C-2173)
Second Integrated Child Development         S                S
Services Project (C-2470)
Maternal and child health   Child Survival and Safe Motherhood   Completed             S
Project (C-2300)
Reproductive and Child Health Project       S                 S
(N-018)
Eighth Population Project (C-2394)          S                 S
Population IX - Family Welfare              S                 S
(C-2630)
Health                   Food and Drug Capacity Building       Appraised 10/97
Primary education        Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (C-                     S
2509)
District Primary Education Project (C-      S                 S
2661)
Second District Primary Education           S                S
Project (C-2876)
Second Uttar Pradesh Basic Education        S                S
Project
Third District Primary Education Project    S                 S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Primary lessons learnedfrom OED (general)
*  Building national commitment to enhanced quality and evaluation should be given prominence in policy
dialogue.
*  Borrower ownership is crucial. It must be nurtured. Excessive Bank involvement can crowd out Borrower
ownership.
*  Coordinate closely with other donors to avoid conflicting advice.
*  Focus on strengthening institutional capacity; it is the key to quality, sustainability and development impact.
*  Incorporate careful monitoring and evaluation into project design.
Lessons learnedfrom completed and ongoing projects (specific)
The design of the current project has taken into account a number of key constraints that have affected the whole
social sector portfolio in India, such as: delays in the appointment of project management staff; a large number of
vacancies in project institutions; poor quality and management of training; slow procurement; delays in submission
of audits; and insufficient attention given by implementing agencies to improving the quality of services.
With regard to lessons from related projects, Tamil Nadu has developed one of the world's most successful
programs to reduce malnutrition -- the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Program (TINP), and IDA has supported
TINP with two operations since 1980. An impact evaluation of TINP I demonstrate a successful achievement of the
project objectives of improving the nutritional and health status of children aged 6-36 months. Moreover, the
impact evaluation demonstrated that the project induced changes in mothers' behavior that positively affected their
children's health and nutritional status.
The two ICDS projects supported by IDA since 1991 (ICDS I, in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa) and 1993 (ICDS II, in
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh), have had mixed results: the major problems have been slow pace of implementation
and inadequate staffing. ICDS I, which closed in December 1997, did not fully meet its development objectives but
was fully disbursed. The Implementation Completion Report indicated progress on three out of four key indicators:
declines in infant mortality and low birth weight in both states, and an increase in the proportion of children aged 6-
36 months who were normal or had Grade I (mild) malnutrition. The survey showed that severe malnutrition had
declined in A.P., but had risen in Orissa. ICDS II is now performing better, after a slow start, especially in Madhya
Pradesh, and to a lesser extent in Bihar. Progress on key indicators will be available in mid-1998 from the mid-term
review.
Numerous evaluations of ICDS have been conducted, and much has been learned through ICDS I and II. The major
findings from these evaluations and the ways these lessons are addressed by the project follow:
Better worker training is key to improving the impact of the program: anganwadi workers (AWWs) need
better technical training, and better organizational and communication skills; supervising cadres, too, need more
technical knowledge, plus training in how to provide effective and supportive supervision.
Efforts to strengthen training are the centerpiece of the project design, through enhanced financing norms for
training, strengthening training capacity for induction and refresher training, support for strong state-wide training
and IEC functions, and emphasis on technical capacity and the delivery of quality services. In addition, the project
will support enhanced curricula and methodology plus a systematic approach to training needs assessment. Finally,
the national training component should ensure project impact throughout the ICDS program.
Better coordination of health, family welfare and nutrition services is an essential prerequisite for ICDS
strengthening, especially in enhancing the link between the services provided by the AWW and the auxiliary nurse-
midwife (ANM) through joint training and joint action plans.
Coordination has improved over time, and ICDS I and II and other Bank-financed projects have contributed to this
improvement. The proposed project, and the RCH project approved by the Board in May 1997, provide support for
enhanced joint training, joint visits, and a shared set of goals and methods for these key, front-line workers.



8
Focus on the biologically vulnerable. This evaluation finding is the basis for the great emphasis on children
under three, as well as on pregnant and lactating women. Progress is evident on this front in ICDS I and II, and
especially in TINP I and II.
The project stresses prevention of malnutrition in under-threes, and places relatively less emphasis on the 4-6-year-
olds, by targeting growth monitoring mainly on the younger children, and by a greater emphasis on outreach
activities.
Better monitoring and supportive supervision for the AWWs. Evaluations of ICDS and ICDS I and II have
shown the primacy of this supportive supervision function. The project addresses it through better training for
supervisors, increasing their mobility, and emphasizing community involvement in the selection and oversight of
AWWs.
Pre-school education is valued by communities, is a key factor in early childhood development, and enhances
the enrollment for and impact of primary education. TINP I and II and ICDS I and II did not emphasize this
component of ICDS. Because of the above lessons, and the expert consensus regarding the critical nature of this
activity, the project increases the emphasis and investment in this area.
Program evaluations and experience with IDA-financed projects have also yielded state-specific lessons on
ICDS. A first and obvious lesson is that all aspects of the program perform better in states with greater technical
and managerial capacity, e.g., much better in Tamil Nadu than in Bihar. Program impact has generally been higher
in the more-advanced, southern states, e.g., Andhra Pradesh in ICDS I, than in more backward, northern states, e.g.,
U.P. and Madhya Pradesh (although Madhya Pradesh has performed better than Bihar in ICDS II). The project
design response to these considerations, and a number of other findings, is to:
Keep the project design simpler in the states where capacity is limited, e.g., U.P.;
-  limit reform of the project monitoring system to a small number of manageable, high priority interventions;
-  adapt project design to the differing needs and capacities of the states, e.g., minimizing the operational
research studies to be conducted in U.P.;
-  select project states, and districts and blocks within states, on criteria that balance need with capacity and
previous track record with IDA-financed projects;
-  encourage decentralized approaches to project implementation, e.g., of training, to the extent feasible; and
-  emphasize the development of state-wide training and management capacity over major expansion in
service delivery, especially in states where the quality of services is relatively low.
A 2 I-page paper on lessons leamed from the first twenty years of ICDS is in the project file.
Lessons learnedfrom other organizations
The National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development (NIPCCD), India's premier child development
research and training institution, conducted a comprehensive evaluation of ICDS in 1992. The evaluation noted a
lower incidence of malnutrition in ICDS blocks, but pointed out some major shortcomings in the program,
especially inadequate staff training and supervision, shortfalls in supplementary feeding, lack of community
participation, and insufficient priority being given to children under age three. In addition,
the report emphasized the need to strengthen program management and to better target beneficiaries, since many
blocks with a high prevalence of malnutrition, especially among scheduled castes and tribal groups, were not fully
covered. Since 1992, the Government has endeavored to implement the key recommendations of the NIPCCD
evaluation, but efforts to improve quality have been overshadowed by the priority given to universalizing its
coverage.
UNICEF has served as a partner in the project design. UNICEF's valuable technical and financial resources have
facilitated preparation, and it is expected that this will continue during implementation, especially given UNICEF's
considerable field capability in India. This collaboration was sought by the Bank because of the successful



9
partnership in the recently completed Child Survival and Safe Motherhood project, and similar recent experience in
Bangladesh, Argentina and elsewhere. UNICEF's main investment in ICDS has been in training. The main lesson
learned from their experience is that, in the absence of a substantial increase in the unit cost norms for training,
program quality is unlikely to increase.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* extensive participation of a broad range of stakeholders -- Central and state government officials, NGOs,
academic institutions, field managers and workers, local government representatives, and clients -- in project
preparation and in implementation;
*  the successful social assessment process, which is gradually transforming what had generally been perceived as
a top-down program;
*  creativity and innovativeness demonstrated by the five project states in their project designs;
* government's willingness to substantially increase spending on service quality improvement, as well to as
expand coverage; and
*  commitment by GOI of 29% of project costs, a substantially higher proportion than for most IDA-financed
projects in India.
5. Value added of IDA/ITF support in this project:
The Bank has assisted GOI and the five states in re-focusing ICDS by:
*  proposing the inclusion of Tamil Nadu in the project, thus facilitating the transfer of experience;
*  encouraging innovation, decentralization and state-specific initiatives, and a participatory approach to project
preparation;
* assisting the government to consider the quantity/quality trade-off posed by ICDS universalization, through
financial, economic, social, and institutional analysis;
*  assisting in clarification of other key strategic issues, and options for addressing them, especially in the areas of
service delivery, training, institutional development and resource allocation; and
*  facilitating UNICEF participation in conceptualizing and preparing the project.
The project preparation process has already contributed to strengthening ICDS in three ways: a) catalyzing the
increased emphasis on, and additional financing for, training; b) increasing community involvement in the program
through the social assessment effort; and c) supporting greater flexibility and variety in state-level approaches.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ x] Cost-Benefit Analysis - Benefit-Cost ratio = 2.3; [x ] ERR= 20%; [x ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
The ICDS program delivers services to reach a multitude of objectives including children's improved nutritional
and health status and development of their psychosocial competencies, and mothers' improved health and
childrearing practices. The economic assessment has focused on comparing the unit cost of delivering food in the
ICDS to that in alternative programs, such as the Public Distribution System (PDS): the possibilities of further
increasing the cost-effectiveness of the program through introducing practices adopted in the TINP program in
Tamil Nadu; assessing the fiscal impact of universalizing the program and simulating the effects of various
strategies in undertaking universalization; and developing an approach to describe the productivity losses resulting
from child malnutrition and using these to calculate the partial rate of return and benefit cost ratios for the ICDS
expenditures. The results of studies which have assessed the impact of the program on future learning achievement
in schools have also been collected and summarized.



10
a) The Cost-Effectiveness of the Feeding Element of the ICDS and the Public Distribution System.
Total central government expenditure in 1996/97 on the ICDS was Rs. 6.8 billion and on the PDS was Rs. 75
billion. An analysis of the PDS recently undertaken by the Bank demonstrated that the cost of delivering Rs. I of
food to the poor is Rs. 4.35. This compares to an estimate prepared during project preparation of delivery costs of
Rs. 1.22 per Rs. of food for the ICDS - even if all of the non-food costs of the program are assumed devoted to food
delivery. Given the health and education components of ICDS, the actual cost of delivering food will be
significantly lower than this estimate. In addition, by focusing on young children and pregnant and lactating
mothers, the ICDS is better targeted toward those who require some subsidized feeding. In the PDS, as little as 25-
30 percent of foodgrains distributed reach the poorest 40 percent of the population who can be assumed to be most
nutritionally at risk. The combination of lower delivery costs per unit of food and more effective targeting of those
at risk suggests that a transfer of resources from the PDS to the ICDS would increase levels of social welfare.
b) Cost Implications of the Tamil Nadu Selective Feeding Approach.
The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP), while benefiting all children and mothers through careful and
continuous growth monitoring, and health care, has focused its feeding program largely on growth faltering
children, particularly those aged 6-36 months. This compares to the general ICDS approach which provides some
supplementary feeding to all children aged 0-6 years who attend the center. An analysis undertaken during project
preparation of the. costs of TINP compared to those resulting from implementing the GOI ICDS feeding norms
demonstrated lower food costs and higher non-food costs in the TINP program. Extending the analysis to the food
costs for the five project states and all-India, the potential savings of selective feeding were estimated to be up to
almost 50 percent and to substantially outweigh the additional non-food costs. A cost-effectiveness study done in
1988 comparing TINP with the general ICDS approach concluded that, while overall costs for TINP and the
nutritional components of ICDS were not very different, the effects of the former in reducing severe malnutrition
among the 6-36 month olds were twice as great. The higher level of efficiency of TINP is not surprising: a strategy
based on feeding only the very needy will be cheaper and more cost-effective than one which aims to feed all,
regardless of the degree of need.
c) The Total Cost of Universalizing the ICDS Under Current Beneficiary and Feeding Norms.
Currently there are around 4200 ICDS projects (one per block) operating nation-wide while the total number to
achieve universalization would be 5738. Not all of the existing centers follow the Govermment's guidelines for the
number and composition of beneficiaries nor the provision of food. For example, overall, 30 percent of the centers
are provided with food for less than the required 25 days a month. In some states, the proportion is much lower.
Government expenditures on ICDS in 1995/96 were Rs. 6.7 billion for non-food (central government) and an
estimated Rs. 5.5 billion for food (state governments). The total cost of universalization, adopting both the
beneficiary and feeding guidelines of GOI, has been calculated at Rs. 9.05 billion for non-food and Rs. 14 billion
for food. Allowing for the food contributions of the WFP and CARE (for which the states pay for transport), the
total food requirement for universalization and the total fulfillment of GOI norms would require a doubling of state
government expenditures. Between 1992/93 and 1995/96, real expenditures on food increased by 42 percent across
the country. A further doubling would require a major increase in priority. Alternatives would be to slow down the
pace of expansion, particularly in those states which currently find difficulty in reaching the feeding norms, and/or
to more selectively concentrate food supplementation on those children most in need. The proposed project will
focus primarily on improving the quality of the program rather than on its expansion.
d) Simulations of the Total Costs of Universalization under Alternative Beneficiary and Feeding Norms.
In the context of a required doubling of food expenditures to reach the universalization target under current norms, a
set of eight alternative scenarios was costed. The scenarios considered alternative daily feeding costs, variations in
the proportion of children below three years and between three and six years receiving supplementary feeding and
changes to the number of days feeding per month. Potential reductions in food cost of selective feeding on the
TINP model ranged from 15 to 54 percent.



11
e) Partial Rate of Return Analysis.
An internal rate of return to investments in the ICDS program was calculated using an assessment of the impact of
increased nutritional status on labor productivity as the measure of economic benefits. The declining incidence of
severe malnutrition among ICDS beneficiaries (children and mothers) and the numbers of beneficiaries covered
between 1991/92 and 1995/96 were used to estimate deaths averted and reduced levels of frailty in the surviving
population. Best-estimates of the effects on labor productivity of malnutrition from the nutrition literature were
then used to quantify the potential increases in output resulting from lower levels of malnutrition using various
estimates of income and life expectancy. Using conservative assumptions, the resulting net benefit stream resulted
in an internal rate of return of around 20 percent. The benefit-cost ratio was 2.3 using a three percent discount rate
and 1.9 with a six percent discount rate. Few studies of this type exist for other countries. A major Bank effort has
been made in Uganda, though based more on estimates of the effects of nutrition programs from the literature than
on direct empirical work. Programs to relieve protein-energy malnutrition in children were estimated to have a
benefit cost ratio (at three percent discount rate) of 1:2 and programs to relieve iron-deficiency anemia in pregnant
women a ratio of 1:0. Both the Uganda study and the one undertaken for the project restricted the measure of
benefits to increased labor market productivity. The increased value of domestic production, the less tangible
economic benefits from a healthier, more capable and reliable labor force plus the increased quality of life resulting
from decreased illness and increased physical and intellectual capacity are not accounted for. The results of the
analyses demonstrate that using conservative assumptions of benefits, nutritional interventions have economic
payoffs which exceed their costs.
f) Nutritional Status and School Performance.
At least two studies have assessed the impact of the ICDS program on aspects of primary schooling. The first
presented the percentages of children (in fourteen villages) who dropped out of school by class III according to
whether they had attended ICDS centers or not. For both lower and middle caste children the differences were
large: dropout rates of 19 and 35 percent respectively for lower caste children and 5 and 25 percent for middle caste
children. The second study compared school attendance rates and the performance on the Raven's Progressive
Color Matrices test of socially matched groups of children who had and had not attended ICDS centers. Again, both
attendance and performance were much higher among the group that had attended the centers.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact
The ICDS is a centrally-sponsored scheme jointly funded by the central and state governments. The central
government funds all expenditures apart from food items which are provided by the states, in some cases with
support from CARE and the World Food Program (WFP). Central government allocations have increased
significantly in recent years from Rs. 2.4 billion in 1991/92 to Rs. 6.8 billion in 1996/97 - a 92 percent increase at
constant prices or 18 percent a year. The outlay for 1997/98 is Rs. 7.3 billion. During the period of project
implementation, the central Government's contribution will average Rs. 767 million a year, which is equal to 34
percent of total project costs and to 10 percent of the 1997/98 budget outlay. Past trends in expenditure growth (18
percent a year) indicate that this financial requirement, while high, will be accommodated. Expenditures on the
ICDS form only 0.3 percent of total central government revenue expenditure. The overall fiscal impact of the
project for the central government would be small.
The project states will be required to provide funds for the food component of the project. Nationwide, state
government expenditure on food for the TCDS increased from Rs. 2.8 billion in 1992/93 to Rs. 5.5 billion in
1995/96 - an increase of 49 percent at constant prices. For the individual project states, the growth rate has varied
but in each case has been substantial. Between 1992 and 1996, state government expenditures increased from Rs.
450 million to Rs. 1.27 billion in Maharashtra, from Rs. 84 million to Rs. 420 million in Uttar Pradesh, from Rs. 50
million to Rs. 100 million in Kerala, from Rs. 42 million to Rs. 101 million in Rajasthan, and from Rs. 7 million to
Rs. 250 million in Tamil Nadu. Overall across the five states, expenditures increased threefold from Rs. 696 million
to Rs. 2.1 billion. The relationship between budgetary allocations and actual expenditures are generally
encouraging. Between 1993/94 and 1995/96, in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu expenditures were above allocations



12
in two of the three years, and in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala they averaged 98 percent and 96 percent of allocations,
respectively. Only in Rajasthan were expenditures significantly below the allocations, averaging 58 percent.
The main focus of the project is to increase the quality of the existing program rather than to expand it. However, it
will also assist in establishing around 35,000 new centers in four of the five project states. On the basis of ICDS
beneficiary and feeding norms, the additional annual food cost across the five states resulting from these centers will
build up to Rs. 900 million in the final year of the project. This would require an average annual increase of 6
percent over 1996/97 expenditures. This is a growth rate above that for overall state revenue growth but is well
below the rate achieved between 1992 and 1996. For the individual states, the required increases, and the 1996/97
expenditures are: Maharashtra Rs 450 million and Rs 1.27 billion; Uttar Pradesh Rs 170 million and Rs 420 million;
Rajasthan Rs 170 million and 101 million, and Kerala Rs 100 million and Rs 100 million respectively. The
percentage required increases are largest in Rajasthan and Kerala but in both cases the absolute amounts are
relatively small.
A complication facing Kerala, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, however, is that the WFP and CARE currently provide
substantial amounts of food for ICDS centers. In these cases, the state governments are responsible for
transportation and storage costs (equal to between Rs. 0.20 and Rs 0.35 for each Rs. 1 of food). In Uttar Pradesh,
WFP/CARE provided food for 42 percent of all beneficiaries in 1996/97. Taking over the WFP/CARE program
would add around Rs. 200 million to the current Rs. 420 million food expenditure. In Kerala, all food supplies are
contributed by WFP. Transfer of this activity to the state would require government allocations to increase from Rs.
100 million to around Rs. 400 million. In Rajasthan, WFP/CARE provide food for 89 percent of beneficiaries,
saving the state around Rs. 300-350 million compared to a current (1995/96) expenditure of around Rs. 100 million.
The viability of the feeding program in each of these three states is closely linked to these donor inputs. Though
there are no plans to reduce support to Uttar Pradesh or Rajasthan, it is being substantially reduced in Kerala and
there are no firm plans by either agency to increase their support for the proposed new centers. All of the feeding
costs for these may have to be provided by the state governments.
Overall expenditures on food will need to be closely monitored along with the expansion of ICDS centers in the
project states. The recent indication that GOI intends to slow down the earlier planned pace of universalization of
the program suggests that the constraints on states is appreciated. It is intended that the ITF Development Credit
Agreement will include an undertaking by the GOI to monitor food expenditures in the project states and for project
states to ensure that those expenditures meet GOI norms.
3. Technical:
The proposed project is technically sound. The integrated delivery of nutrition, health and early stimulation services
to young children is increasingly gaining recognition as one of the most cost-effective approaches to developing the
human resources of the poor. The project will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing program by
addressing weaknesses and introducing some innovations. The project will: (i) improve targeting by focusing on
the under-threes and families most at-risk; (ii) improve task and time management of the front-line workers; (iii)
strengthen growth monitoring and promotion; (iv) reform supplementary feeding; (v) improve collaboration with
the health department; (vi) rationalize the purchase distribution and use of drugs; (vii) improve referrals of
malnourished children; and (viii) enhance pre-school stimulation. Important innovations include: (i) total quality
management; (ii) enhanced community participation; (iii) nutrition, health and education inputs for adolescent girls;
(iv) independent performance audits; and (v) linkages with primary education.
Focus on the under-threes and pregnant and lactating women will be central to the success of the technical package
and attention must be paid to reaching these primary target groups during implementation.
A full technical assessment is available in the project files.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The project will be executed by the state Departments of Women and Child Development
(DWCD) or Social Welfare (the nomenclature varies by state), under the overall coordination of the GOI, DWCD.



13
Institutional capacity is strong in Tamil Nadu, which has benefited from 15 years of support under TINP, but
relatively weak in other states, especially U.P. In these states, management and technical staffng is thin, and their
limited management and training capacity has been overstretched by the recent rapid expansion of ICDS. The
project will deal with these institutional constraints by:
*  increasing management capacity in each state through creation of a project management unit integrated with the
existing ICDS program office, and including additional technical staff for nutrition, training, IEC, monitoring
and evaluation; and financing of additional technical support posts at the district level;
*  implementing institutional development plans for existing ICDS worker pre-service training institutions;
creation of additional pre-service training institutions to reduce the training backlog; and establishment of a
new in-service training system at district and block level; and
*  reducing the managerial complexity of ICDS, by allowing the states to adopt simplified schemes for women's
empowerment and adolescent girls, which fit their needs and capacities, and by focusing field workers on a
limited number of priority tasks.
b. Project management: Project implementation will be coordinated by project management units in Delhi and the
states. The central unit will be small and is expected to be dissolved at the end of the project. Each state unit will
be about the same size as the central unit, and will be integrated with the existing ICDS program management unit.
Appropriate staffng for the ICDS program in the project states to ensure the sustainability of the quality
improvement process, after the project ends, will be reviewed during the project implementation period.
A 12-page institutional assessment has been prepared and is available in the project files.
5. Social:
Project Preparation. Social Assessments (SAs) were carried out as part of the project preparation process with
UJNICEF collaboration and financing. They involved a large number of current and potential clients of the ICDS
program, covering the wide cross-section of people which the project is expected to reach, including women,
scheduled castes, tribal people, urban slum dwellers, and other marginalized groups such as fisherfolk (e.g., in
Kerala) and nomads (e.g., in Rajasthan). They also involved field workers and managers and District and State
level officers. The assessments themselves were carried out by NGOs, academic institutions and research firms. In
each state, the SA consisted of a literature review, field data collection on the reach and quality of ICDS services
being provided, in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with clients, village opinion makers and leaders,
and participatory rural appraisals (PRA) by village residents, particularly women. At each stage of the assessments
inter-state workshops were held to cross-fertilize the efforts of the five participating states. This iterative process of
field exercises and sharing workshops which took place over a period of 17 months from January 1995 through May
1996 ensured widespread participation in the SA process and greatly enhanced the quality of the reports.
The SAs focused on identifying community needs, practices and preferences, and problems currently being
experienced with the ICDS program, in order to determine what the project must do to effectively reach the socially
and economically disadvantaged to meet their nutrition, health, survival and pre-school education goals. The
reports documented a high prevalence of malnutrition in the proposed project states, particularly in tribal areas and
among especially disadvantaged groups such as fisherfolk. Very young children (0-3 year olds) were most
susceptible to severe malnourishment, especially during the period from 6 to 23 months of age. Girls were
generally more nutritionally disadvantaged than boys. Tribal communities faced extreme seasonal deprivations of
food. Caste factors often constrained the access of low-caste women and children to anganwadis. Adult women in
poor households were at risk of malnutrition, particularly during pregnancy when they faced traditional restrictions
in addition to low household food availability; and they had very limited access to health care. Health conditions in
villages and urban slums were generally poor, encompassing a lack of access to safe drinking water, unhygienic
surroundings, and inadequate or unresponsive health facilities. Community awareness of desirable nutrition and
health practices for young children and pregnant women, and of ICDS services, was low. In Kerala and Tamil
Nadu, where awareness of nutrition and access to health care were generally better than in the other three states, the
severe economic limitations of target households perpetuated malnutrition.



14
Overall, ICDS was found to have had little impact on household behaviors related to nutrition or health, such as
intra-familial food distribution, utilization of health care (except immunization), and child care practices. The
program was often regarded solely as a supplementary feeding or day care program, rather than as an integrated
program, largely on account of its weak health services or because the key anganwadi worker was not seen as
capable of delivering even basic health care. Pre-school education services were also regarded as weak due to
inadequacies of space, equipment or workers' training. Service providers were often unaware of good health,
nutrition or child care practices, and voiced frustrations with or criticism of the ICDS program's management or
community interface.
The findings of the social assessments are reflected in the strategies that evolved during project preparation,
particularly for the improvement of service delivery, training, information, education and communications (IEC),
and community organization and involvement. The project will focus particularly on reducing the incidence of
child malnutrition by attention to 0-3 year-olds and pregnant women, and on strengthening health care. It will
improve worker training and coordination for these purposes, as well as to foster greater community involvement in
the program. It encompasses an IEC strategy to improve awareness of ICDS, provide community feedback, and
address the knowledge needs of poor communities. In addition, the project includes the organization of women's
groups and empowerment activities to address the social and economic disadvantages faced by women in the target
households more broadly. Variations in the findings substantiated the need for a decentralized approach to project
formulation and implementation.
Project Implementation. The SAs also began a process of stakeholder participation which will continue throughout
implementation to final evaluation, to ensure the delivery of community-responsive and better quality services.
During the project, social assessments will be carried out regularly to obtain client and worker feedback on
implementation as it proceeds. Each state will select an agency which will be contracted on an annual basis to
conduct field assessments focusing on the key activities that are proposed to take place in the period ahead (e.g.,
next six months or year), and those that have been implemented to date. In this way, the project will obtain
beneficiary inputs for planning purposes as well as feedback to strengthen ongoing activities, modify strategies, etc.
For example, the SAs would focus on the topic of pre-school education when the information could be utilized to
improve workers' training in this subject and/or after workers had begun to implement the improved training. The
SA agency will work in relevant project areas, varying these over time so as to maximize coverage of the state's
"new" and existing project areas. The agencies will utilize the range of methods described above, ensuring that
client mothers, community members, panchayat members, local groups, etc., participate fully in the process.
The Project Implementation Plans for each state include the state's plans for community participation in the project.
They identify activities aimed at: (a) increasing community awareness; (b) enhancing community participation in
and utilization of anganwadi services; (c) encouraging community management and creating appropriate structures
for this purpose; (d) attracting community contributions of land, labor, buildings, cash or materials; and (e)
obtaining community feedback (including the continuous social assessment process, above).
Tribal Strategy. The social assessments identified tribal populations in the project areas and the issues concerning
their access to, involvement in, and benefit from the ICDS program. Subsequently the project proposals and PIPs
have identified a series of actions which address the needs of and constraints faced by tribal people. For example, in
three of the four project states which have tribal populations, the access of tribal people living in hamlets was
identified as a critical issue - and the PIPs have provided for improving access to ICDS services through increased
numbers of centers, improved infrastructure, additional workers, and so on. Issues relating to the lower literacy and
awareness, and poorer health conditions of tribals have also been addressed through enhancement in training,
provisions for culturally relevant educational materials, and attention to local health needs. The revised PIPs
include a coherent tribal strategy for each state, including the tribal focus of the continued social assessment
process. The tribal strategies are the equivalent of the indigenous people's development plans required by OD 4.20.
A 20-page social assessment summary is available in the project files.



15
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category []A   []B   [x ] C
The proposed project investments do not raise environmental issues. The project is therefore classified under
Category C, No resettlement is anticipated as a result of the project, in which village nutrition centers and block
offices will be constructed. Since no fixed sites have been finalized for any of these buildings, in the event of any
problems with squatters or encroachers, alternative sites will be selected.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification/Prearation   linle ienato
Participatory Approach
Beneficiaries/community groups                    CON                    COL, MGT
Intermediary NGOs                                  COL                   COL, IMP
Academic institutions                              COL                     COL
Local government                                  CON                    COL, MGT
Field workers and managers                        CON                    IMP, MGT
District administrators (incl. sectoral officers)  CON                   IMP, MGT
Central and State government officials             COL                   IMP, MGT
Key: CON=Consultation, COL=collaboration, IMP=implementation, MGT=management, SPN=supervision
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(i) Financial
Financial sustainability is an issue for both central and state governments (see para. 14). The responsibility for
sustaining most of the specific project activities at the end of the project will be borne by the central government.
The almost doubling of real expenditures on the ICDS between 1991/92 and 1995/96 and the policy decision to
universalize the scheme over the 9th Plan period, indicate both the intention and ability of the central government to
fulfill its responsibility. Incremental recurrent expenditures for the GOI arising from the project in the year
following its completion are projected to be Rs. 900 million. This is equal to 12.3 percent of its total 1996/97
expenditure (Rs. 7.3 billion) on the scheme and would require an annual real growth rate ofjust 2.0 percent.
Expenditures on ICDS form just 0.3 percent of the central government's total revenue expenditures.
The state governments' incremental obligation will be to ensure that food is provided for any new ICDS centers
established and staffed within the project period over and above that required for existing centers. As such, their
financial obligations will progressively increase over the life of the project, rather than at the end of it, at a rate
determnined by the establishment of new centers. During 1995/96, the five project state governments spent a total of
Rs. 2.1 billion on food costs. At completion of the project, combined food costs will rise by Rs. 900 million
(assuming that WFP/CARE neither decrease nor increase their current commitments in the three project states
where they are currently involved). To achieve this will require an annual average growth of expenditures of
around six percent. The real growth rate across all states between 1992/3 and 1995/6 was 11 percent. While
adequate financial provisions for food is one of the risks of the project, the requirement is feasible while WFP and
CARE continue their programs in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and, now, to a lesser extent in Kerala. Closure of these
programs could threaten the state-wide ICDS activities and would require substantial increases in state government
support. In the shorter term, the procedure whereby additional centers are only sanctioned alongside a
corresponding increase in the budgetary allocation for food will tend to minimize the possibility of centers opening
without adequate support.



16
In sum, the project activities for which the central government is responsible are fnancially sustainable. State
governments are judged to be capable of providing sufficient food to the new centers if recent rates of growth of
food expenditures are maintained and if, in the case of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, there is a continuation of
WFP/CARE support. In the case of Kerala, where the support of WFP has been substantially reduced, the state
government will need to increase its recent allocations. The undertaking from the project states to provide an
annual report on allocations for food will facilitate sustainability.
(ii) Instutlonal
If successfully implemented, the proposed project will create institutional structures and processes which will
substantially increase ICDS quality during the project life, and which will endure after the project as permanent
quality improvement mechanisms. The benefits will be in terms of the following structures, supported with
operational budgets:
*  an improved managerial and technical staff complement at state and district levels;
*  development of monitoring and evaluation cells;
*  strengthening of the Middle Level and Anganwadi Worker Training Center system; and
*  development of a refresher training structure at district and/or block level.
The following institutional processes will also be established or improved:
*  a quality improvement planning process at district, block and village level (established);
*  manpower planning and training needs assessment (established);
-  convergence of ICDS, health and family welfare, and education services (improved);
-  use of regular formative research to adjust IEC strategies during program implementation (established);
-  continuous social assessment process (established); and
-  dissemination of key performance information to management, workers and communities (improved).
The project will include measures to assure that the above benefits are realized in the critical risks section.
2. Critical Risks:
R0igk                          0                 Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective:
Failure to improve quality of services         High            Putting in place a quality improvement
program emphasizing the under-threes;
and
GOI approval of enhanced financial
norms for ICDS training;
Slow implementation                            Substantial,    Quality at entry and focused
especially in    supervision by GOI and IDA; and
U.P. and        Reallocate funds from low-performning
Rajasthan       to high-performing states, if necessary,
during implementation.



17
Risk                                            Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
From Components to Outputs:
Failure to increase training quality and output  Moderate    Technical assistance from lead
institutions and intense supervision;
Experimenting with different
approaches to in-service training, so
that the most feasible and cost-effective
can be replicated.
Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) failure to Moderate   Involvement of technically competent
assess progress and impact of project                        national institutions with proven track
records.
Overall Risk Rating                          Moderate to     Convergence of services, especially
substantial    health, family welfare and primary
education;
Active involvement of communities;
close monitoring of activities.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Negotiations:
Three conditions of Negotiations have been met by GOI:
(a) appointment of key project management staff in GOI and the five project states;
(b) all necessary GOI and state clearances for the project; and
(c) GOI approval of the enhanced financial norms for ICDS training.
2. Other Covenants:
At Negotiations, the Government of India provided assurances that it would:
(a)    implement the project in Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh in accordance
with the PIPs agreed with IDA as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund (ITF), and in accordance with
annual implementation plans for each state to be agreed with IDA;
(b)    implement the project in the five project states according to the 18-month Plan for Introduction of Services
(PIS) for ICDS;
(c)    carry out baseline nutrition survey work in all five states, including data analysis and report submission, to
be completed by March 31, 1999, and an endline nutrition survey, including data analysis and submission,
to be completed by the end of year five of the project;
(d)    establish and operationalize in the five states by the end of year two of the project, a new in-service
training system at district and block level;
(e)    provide all field-level functionaries in each of the five states at least one round ofjob training by the end of
year four of the project;
(f)    submit a PIP satisfactory to the Administrator for the national training component, by December 31, 1998;
(g)    require each state or UT participating in the national training component, to execute and furnish to the
Borrower a Letter of Undertaking;



18
(h)    implement tribal strategies in accordance with the PIP for each of the five project states;
(i)    carry out social assessments in the five states on an annual basis throughout the project period to obtain
beneficiary and worker feedback on implementation;
(j)    conduct annual reviews with the Administrator of project progress, with participation of all five project
states, and carry out a mid-term review during year three of the project;
(k)    Monitor, on an annual basis, the expenditure for the food costs of the ICDS program in each project state,
to ensure that the annual expenditure for food costs by each project state meets the applicable GOI norms;
(1)    retain key Central PMU and state PMU staff during the project implementation period and, during the mid-
term review, review with the Administrator and each project state, the appropriate staffing for the ICDS
program following the completion of the project to ensure the sustainability of the project.
(m)    provide to the Administrator by May 31 of each year, an annual work plan consistent with the PIPs; and
(n)    ensure that no civil works which may result in involuntary resettlement of people will be undertaken under
the project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
At Appraisal, it was agreed that up to $10 million equivalent could be used for retroactively financing eligible
expenditures under the project, within one year prior to the expected date of project signing, in order to facilitate
rapid start-up of the project
I. Compliance with IDA Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Task Team Leader: Anthony Measham
Sector Manager:   Richard Skolnik
Country DirectorEd in Lim



Annex I
Page I of 3
Annex 1
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve access to, and      Reduce malnutrition in       Periodic nutrition surveys.
effectiveness of, key nutrition   children aged 0-36 months.
programs.
Project Development
Objectives:
1. Improve the nutrition,   (a) % severely malnourished    Establish baseline. Follow-up    Risk: failure to improve
health and psycho-social status  0-36 month-old children;  with implementation reports,   program effectiveness and
of children, 0-6 years of age,   (b) % moderately malnourish-   and mid-term and fnal sentinel  impact.
with particular emphasis on  ed 0-36 month old children; (c)  surveys.
preventing malnutrition in 0-3   % low birth weight incidence;
year olds.                  (d) IMR rate; (e) % of 3-6
year-old children receiving
pre-school education; and
(f) % enrollment of children in
primary schools.
2. Improve the nutrition and    (a) % pregnant women     Continuous social assessment.  (a) timely completion of
health of women, particularly   registered before 16 weeks; (b)                      training targets; (b) timely
pregnant and lactating mothers.  / eligible pregnant and                             procurement and distribution
lactating women regularly                               of iron supplements for women
receiving supplementary food;                            and adolescent girls.
(c) % consumption of iron
supplements for 100 days by
pregnant women; (d) % of
pregnant women having
regular growth monitoring; (e)
% of pregnant women
immunized for tetanus toxoid;
(f) % consumption of iron and
folic acid supplements for 100
days by adolescent girls; and
(g) % of beneficiaries (women,
children) referred for health
services.
3. Improve child care       (a) % eligible children weighed  MIS and monitoring system.    State governments of the five
practices, i.e., meet the   regularly; (b) % severely and                            states to provide enhanced
nutritional, health and psycho-  moderately malnourished                             allocations for the
social needs of children.   children receiving regular                               supplementary food.
supplementary food; (c) % of
mothers feeding colostrum to
new-boms; (d) % exclusive
Ibreastfeeding among 0-5



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary             Key Performance               Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
month-old children; (e) % 6-9
month-olds receiving
complementary semi-solid
food; (f) % use of ORS during
last diarrheal episode; (g) %
12-23 month-old children fully
immunized; and (h) % of 3-36
month-old children regularly
receiving Vitamin A.
4. Empower adolescent girls,   (a) Proportion of adolescent  Continuous social assessment.
through increased awareness,   girls covered by awareness
to take better care of their own   program; (b) % of girls
health and nutrition needs.  marrying after 1 8th birthday.
5. Strengthen community      Proportion of communities    Continuous social assessment.  (a) active participation of the
capacity to participate in and    receiving technical assistance                      panchayats in the program.
monitor the progress of the  to promote participation.
ICDS program.
6. Strengthen the capacity at    Number of institutes developed  MIS and National Training  Risk: Failure to increase
central, state and block level to  Institutes established and  Monitoring System.      training quality and output.
provide high quality support    proportion of functionaries
and training to functionaries of  provided training.
the ICDS program.
Project Outputs:
1. Increased coverage of    % increase in 0-6, especially 0-  Implementation progress  Active center and state support
0-6 age group.               3, age group beneficiaries.  reports and regular         crucial for successful
supervision, including mid-  implementation: in provision
term reviews and final survey.  of food supplements, in
maintenance/creation of
requisite personnel and
institutional capacity, and in
addressing quality
improvement.
2. Increased coverage of     (a) % increase in female
women, particularly pregnant   population with access to a
and lactating mothers.       health facility (b) % increase in
pregnant and lactating mothers
benefiting from service.
3. Increased coverage of     % increase in blocks covered                              Risk: Failure of services to
project.                     by project.                                              reach Hamlets.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary             Key Performance              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each
components: (see Annex 2 for  component)
project description)
1. Service Delive
Service Quality                   46.8
Improvement
Adolescent girls'                  4.1
Empowerment
Staffmg and Infrastructure       167.3
Development
2. Progam Suport
Management and                    12.3
Institutional Development
Capacity Building for              7.8
Training
IEC                               11.2
Monitoring, Evaluation             6.5
and Operational Research
3. National Training
Training Improvement             119.9
Worker Supply                     42.3
Improvement
4. Central Component
CPMU Establishment                 4.2                                            Central Project Management
Unit (CPMU) failure to assess
progress and impact of project.



Annex 2
Page ] of 2
Annex 2
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Service Delivery Strengthening US$218.2 million
a) Service quality improvement (US$46.8 million). This sub-component will strengthen service delivery at village-level by
financing supplies, equipment, medicines and medical supplies, and incremental operating costs for the following:
(i) Nutrition:
- supplementary feeding to prevent the onset of malnutrition and growth faltering. Activities would include: supplementary feeding to
0-6 year olds, with particular emphasis on 0-3 age group; supplementary feeding to pregnant and lactating women; double dose of
supplementary feeding to severely malnourished children and growth falterers; semi-annual vitamin A supplement to children 9
months-6 years; and IFA supplement for at least 1 00 days to pregnant women and adolescent girls.
- regular monitoring to detect malnutrition and promote growth. Activities would include: weighing of child at birth; regular growth
monitoring of 0-6 year olds; and regular weight monitoring of pregnant women.
(ii) Health:
- immunization against six childhood diseases to reduce infant and child mortality. Activities would include: fixed-day strategy for
ANM for immunization; tetanus immunization for expectant mothers; and immunization of newborns.
- provision of appropriate and timely health care to beneficiaries. Activities would include: early registration, and regular check-ups
of pregnant women; use of disposable delivery kits for safe delivery; post-natal check-ups of mother and child; provision of basic
health services/first aid at AWCs, e.g., de-worming and ORS; fixed day strategy with ANMs; referral of ill and at-risk pregnant
women, and children 0-6 years old; referral of severely malnourished children for rehabilitation; referral to private practitioners where
necessary; and provision of medicine and travel funds for referrals.
(iii) Early childhood care and education:
- to promote overall psychosocial development of the child. Activities would include: pre-school education for 3-6 year olds; early
childhood stimulation for 0-3 age group; and awareness of the importance of early childhood stimulation for all care-providers.
b) Adolescent girls' empowerment (US$4. I million) through adolescent girls' activities, such as the provision of iron supplements and
de-worming treatment.
c) Staffing and infrastructure development (US$167.3 million) Staffing would include incremental operating costs for ICDS field
staff. Infrastructure development would involve construction of AWCs and block offices, installation of handpumps, procurement of
equipment and vehicles.
Project Component 2 - Program Support US$37.9 million
a) Management and institutional development (US$12.3 million). The sub-component will finance supply of equipment at the levels
of district, state and central project management unit (CPMU), plus vehicles, salaries, rent and other operating costs at the district,
state and CPMU level. Study tours, workshops, training and quality improvement and preparation of new projects are also supported
through this component.
b) Capacity Building for Training (US$7.8 million). This sub-component will support strengthening district training teams by
provision of salaries and other operating costs and training of adolescent girls.
c) Information, education and communication (IEC) (US$11.2 million). This sub-component will support material and media
services, communication training and campaigns and community mobilization activities, such as social mobilizers in Rajasthan. This
would be based on formative research, keeping in mind that development of community interest, support, and participation is crucial
for effective communications.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Project Component 3 - Central Project Management US$4.2 million
A Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) would be established at the center and funding would provided for overall project
management, monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 4 - National Training Com.ponent US$162.1million
The Government of India made the decision on May 8, 1998 to increase the financial norms for ICDS training throughout the country,
including the project states. IDA agreed to finance training in all the other states and union territories, at the enhanced level, through
this component.
The component inputs are aimed at improving the quality of ICDS services in the country by providing improved training of
functionaries of both new and old blocks; strengthening/establishing training centers and establishing training teams at the state and
district levels, developing training material, etc. The Borrower will be responsible for developing a PIP by December 31, 1998 for
this component, for ensuring that each of the states and union territories develop a training action plan and (i) implementing all
proposed training under the project, including clearing the current backlog; (ii) state-specific strategies, particularly for decentralized
training; (iii) qualitative improvements; and (iv) planning and management of training, including long term capacity building needs.



Annex 3
Page I of 1
Annex 3
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                               Local             Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
I. Service Delivery
Service Quality Improvement                                  44.2                              44.2
Adolescent Girls' Empowerment                                 3.9                -              3.9
Staffing & Infrastructure Development                       156.9                -            156.9
II. Program Support
Management & Institutional Development                       11.5                -             11.5
Capacity Building for Training                                7.8                -              7.8
IEC                                                          10.5                -             10.5
Monitoring, Evaluation & Operational Research                 6.1                -              6.1
- _. National Training Component
Training Improvement                                        119.5                -            119.5
Worker Supply Improvement                                    39.8                -             39.8
IV. Central Component                                             3.9                -              3.9
Total Baseline Cost                                             404.2                -           404.2
Physical Contingencies                                        16.1                -            16.1
Price Contingencies                                            1.9                -             1.9
Total Project Cost                                              422.3                -           422.3



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Annex 4
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Using conservative sets of assumptions, the study yielded an internal rate of return between 15 and 23 percent and benefit-
cost ratios of between 1.7 and 2.3 with a 3 percent discount rate and 1.5 and 2.0 with a discount rate of 6 percent.
Main Assumptions:
Assessing the benefits of the program provides more problems and requires a number of assumptions. Some of these were
given alternative values and the results re-calculated. The following steps were covered:
(a) Calculations were made of child deaths from malnutrition averted and numbers of other child beneficiaries whose frailty
was reduced. Child deaths averted were calculated using government estimates of severe malnutrition rates and their
reduction through time, total annual beneficiaries and an assumption of the proportion of the severely malnourished who die.
Other child beneficiaries were calculated from program enrollment data.
(b) Estimates of pregnant and lactating women finding relief from chronic energy deficiency were calculated from the
program enrollments and government assumptions of CED prevalence. Estimates were made of the reduction in maternal
deaths resulting from malnutrition.
(c) Using age specific life expectancy tables, estimates of per capita output and judgments based on the international
literature of the reduced levels of labor productivity resulting from malnutrition (energy deficiency), the increase in labor
market output resulting from ICDS interventions was calculated.
(d) Gains were calculated using different sets of assumptions for years of working life and valuation of annual economic
output. Streams of benefits were discounted at rates of 3, 6 and 10 percent. The results were expressed in terms of net
present values, benefit-cost ratios and internal rates of return. Using conservative sets of assumptions, the study yielded an
internal rate of return between 15 and 23 percent and benefit-cost ratios of between 1.7 and 2.3 with a 3 percent discount
rate and 1.5 and 2.0 with a discount rate of 6 percent.
It is useful to compare the methodology and assumptions behind this analysis with those used in other analyses. A much
more ambitious and detailed Bank study of the economic returns to a planned nutrition program has recently been completed
for Uganda focusing on protein energy deficiency, iodine deficiency and anemia. A similar approach to measuring the gains
through the labor market was used but a greater amount of international evidence was surveyed to assess the medical and
nutritional status effects of interventions. Ultimately, however, assumptions such as a reduction in the prevalence of
moderate and mild stunting by a half and of maternal anemia by one third as a result of program interventions were utilized.
Again, the general literature was used to make informed assumptions of the percentage reductions in productivity as a result
of a nutritional deficiency. The study yielded benefit-cost ratios of 2.8, 1.2 and 1.0 for the three interventions, using a 3
percent discount rate. The Uganda study suggests that the approach taken in our relatively rapid analysis of the ICDS
program is reasonable and that the results have credibility.
The cost benefit analyses do not represent all the benefits of the ICDS program. By restricting the analysis only to increased
labor market productivity, the results anticipated from improved nutritional status fail to account for the increased value of
domestic production and reduced costs of health care. In addition there may be less tangible but equally important economic
benefits arising from a healthier, more capable and reliable labor force such as lower absenteeism and increased innovation
in individual tasks. Nor, of course, are the reductions in human costs of mortality, illness and reduced physical and
intellectual capacity included. However, by using a relatively simple methodology and conservative assumptions, the
analysis demonstrates that investments in programs such as ICDS have a clear economic payoff.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
Cost-effectiveness indicators'
The ICDS program delivers services for a multitude of objectives including children's improved nutritional and health status
and development of their psycho-social competencies, and mothers' improved health and childrearing practices. The
economic assessment has focused on:
(a) comparing the unit cost of delivering food in the ICDS compared to that in alternative programs such as the Public
Distribution System,
(b) the possibilities of further increasing the cost effectiveness of the program through introducing practices adopted in the
TINP program in Tamil Nadu,
(c) assessing the fiscal impact of Universalizing the program and simulating the effects of various strategies in undertaking
Universalization, and
(d) developing an approach to describe the productivity losses resulting from child malnutrition and using these to calculate
the rate of return and benefit-cost estimates for ICDS expenditures.
The results of studies which have assessed the impact of the ICDS program on future learning achievement and behavior in
schools have also been collected.
The Cost-Effectiveness of the Feeding Element of the ICDS and the Public Distribution System
Central government expenditure in 1996/97 on the ICDS was Rs. 6.8 billion and on the PDS was Rs. 75 billion. Both
schemes have objectives in addition to providing supplementary feeding - for instance, health and education objectives for
the former and agricultural price stabilization for the latter - but the transfer of food to those considered most in need is a
primary objective of each. Recent Bank analysis has concluded that the PDS is not very effective and is certainly not cost-
effective (Radhakrishna and Subbarao 1996, Targeting the Public Distribution System). Many of the poorest states receive a
much lower share of the central government's PDS subsidy than their share of poverty would imply: e.g. Bihar and Uttar
Pradesh account for 35 percent of the country's poor and just 12.6 percent of subsidies. On the other hand, Kerala and
Andhra Pradesh account for 7.2 percent of the poor and 22.3 percent of the subsidy. Targeting within states is similarly
weak and NSS data for 1986/87 show that subsidies were mildly regressive. The administrative costs of the PDS are very
high. Considering only central government expenditures, in 1986/87 the cost of delivering one rupee value of food to the
poor was Rs. 4.3 in Andhra Pradesh, including state government expenditures the cost was Rs. 6.4. The study estimated that
the scheme incurred a cost of Rs. 1.4 to increase nutrient intake by 100kcal.
An analysis of the ICDS scheme during project preparations demonstrated its greater cost effectiveness. First, the cost of
delivering Rs. 1 of food in 1995/96 was Rs. 1.2, considerably below the cost in 1986/87 for the PDS. This estimate
incorporates all of the non-food costs of the ICDS, some of which were for health and education inputs. In addition, the PDS
study reported that the costs of augmenting nutrient intake by 100kcal through the ICDS would cost Rs. 0.3 or just 21 percent
of the cost through the PDS. Though the ICDS does not target among young children and pregnant and lactating mothers,
these are known to be the groups nutritionally most at risk. Hence the scheme is better targeted than the PDS towards those
who require supplementary food supplies.
Cost Effectiveness of Alternative Approaches to Reducing Child Malnutrition
Programs to reduce child malnutrition are, in general, very cost effective compared to other types of interventions aimed at
reducing deaths. The cost per death averted is generally lower than for malaria control, polio immunization, community
water supply and sanitation and almost all forms of hospital care. It is higher than for measles, tetanus and typhoid
immunization programs (Ho, 1983).
(a)    Feeding programs and integrated programs. Some child development programs have a single focus such as direct
nutrition intervention and others attempt to provide an array of, hopefully, mutually reinforcing interventions. The literature
was searched for studies comparing these approaches in India. One such study emerged carried out by the Narangwal Health
Research Center. Similar groups of villages received different types of intervention to determine the effectiveness of a
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project designs or
international standards.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
program of nutritional education and supplementary feeding, a program of infection control and a program of the combined
interventions in reducing the prevalence of malnutrition and infant mortality. For children over two years, the individual
programs were equally effective while for children under two years the infection control program was more effective.
Interventions combining both activities were most effective for both groups of children and resulted in a 40 percent reduction
in child morality.
(b)    Alternative approaches to integrated programs. A study comparing the cost-effectiveness of the standard ICDS
program and the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Program (TINP) was undertaken by Dapice for the Bank in the late 1980s.
On the cost side, the study has been further developed during project preparation. The difference between the two programs
concentrated on in the study was the emphasis in ICDS of providing food to all who attend the centers compared to the
greater concentration in TINP on growth monitoring, particularly of children under three years, and providing supplementary
food for only growth falterers. In the cost effectiveness analysis, the cost of activities such as pre-schooling not undertaken
in TINP were subtracted. The cost per beneficiary of the ICDS program was estimated to be 60 percent higher than for the
TINP beneficiary. In terms of the effectiveness of the two programs in reducing severe malnutrition among the 6-36 month
olds, the TINP program was twice as effective. The results are not surprising. A strategy based on feeding the very needy is
both cheaper and more effective when using the food to reinforce childrearing education and change behavior than a strategy
which attempts to feed all and places less stress on monitoring and behavioral change. The 1990 Completion Report of the
TINP project loan estimated that the continued effect of the program had been to reduce malnutrition by 50 percent and at a
cost per child 'saved' of only US$33. An update of the study for the purposes of project preparation confirmed the higher
cost per center of ICDS though non-food costs are higher. On average, the incidence of weighing at ICDS centers is around
two thirds than at a TINP center, while feeding is universal compared to 27 percent at TINP centers. The reduction of severe
malnutrition appears to continue to be higher in areas served by TINP centers than in those served by the ICDS. The lessons
learned from the TINP experience are invaluable for further development of the ICDS.



Annex 5
Page I of I
Annex 5
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Financial Summary
Year Ending 2003
(US$ million, Base Year 1999)
Implementation Period                        Operational Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003        1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Prject Costs
Investment Costs            43.5    97.6    78.9    56.5    30.9
Recurrent Costs             11.2    22.5    26.3    26.7    28.3
Total                    54.7   120.1   105.2    83.2    59.2
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                         38       57       80      78       76
Government
Central                  62       43       20       22      24
Total                     100    100      100      100      100    _



Annex 6
Page 1 of8
Annex 6
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
IDA-financed works, goods and services will be procured using Bank guidelines of January 1995, revised January and
August, 1996, and September 1997. The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A below. For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bid documents shall be used.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost each US$50,000 and over will be carried out following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost below US$50,000 will be procured following procedures acceptable to the
Association:
(a)    under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(b)    by direct contracting; or
(c)    through Force Account.
* Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at US$200,000 equivalent and more each would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
* Contracts valued between US$30,000 and US$200,000 may be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. Other items or groups of items valued at less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured on the
basis of national shopping procedures.
*  Since the purchase of vehicles would be dispersed throughout the country in six states (including the CPMUJ) with actual
activities' launch time varying among the sites, and in order to facilitate start-up at these various sites, vehicles would be
procured under national shopping procedures in packages below US$ 100,000 equivalent. Where packages over
US$100,000 are to be used they would be prepared using ICB procedures.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
* All contracts for goods with an estimated value of US$200,000 equivalent and more.
*  All contracts for works with an estimated value of US$300,000 equivalent and more.
* The first NCB contract for goods and works for each state, regardless of the amount.
*  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals.
*  All contracts for vehicles with a value of US$ 100,000 equivalent or more.
Disbursemen
Retroactive financing is required to ensure quick project start-up. At Appraisal, it was agreed that up to $10 million
equivalent could be used for retroactively financing eligible expenditures under the project, within one year prior to the expected date
of project signing.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
* Contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent for goods and US$300,000 equivalent for works.
* Consultant contracts of less than US$100,000 for firmns and US$50,000 for individuals.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
* Local training and workshops.
*  Incremental salaries, in-service training and operating expenditures, 60% of local expenditures incurred up to January
31, 2000; 40% of expenditures from February 1, 2000 until January 31, 2002; and 30% of expenditures thereafter.
*  Vehicle contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent each.
Special account:
Authorized allocation of US$20 million.
Financial Management System and Auditing Arrangements
DWCD should have Project Financial Management Systems designed and developed for use and operation by the project
implementing states as well as by the DWCD as per following guidelines:
(a)    The project implementing states would continue to maintain project accounting as per government accounting procedures
and controls with an added requirement that a separate budget head with appropriate sub-heads would be created in their Annual
Budget document to capture all project-related expenditures.
(b)    The Project Financial Management Systems to be designed and developed by the DWCD should be a computer-based system
capable of providing timely and reliable information to the implementing authorities in the states as also to the DWCD to facilitate
effective monitoring of the projects progress towards its agreed objectives. In particular, the accounting arrangements should be able
to disseminate data on category-wise and component-wise expenditures on the project. In addition, the availability of following
information from the accounting documents should be ensured:
(i)    actual expenditures on the Project against budgeted expenditures for the current year and cumulative to enable
compilation of financial reports;
(ii)    procurement method adopted for goods, materials and services to enable monitoring of limits of procurement laid
down in the procurement schedule; and
(iii)   contract-wise expenditures according to categories and sub-categories to enable generation of the schedule of
withdrawal of proceeds (Form IB) and Statement of Expenditures (Form IC) required for submission to the Bank
for withdrawal of Credit.
(c)    The Financial Management System should be so designed, developed, so as to map financial data with the physical data for
measuring the performance of the project.
DWCD should prepare and submit to the Bank a project report on a quarterly basis, in a format, to be agreed with the Bank. The
report should indicate both physical and fnancial progress of the project in relation to the agreed plan, duly explaining the reasons for
variations and the remedial measures proposed to be taken.
DWCD should take appropriate action to appoint consultants to design and develop the Project Financial Management System which
should be in place at the commencement of the project. The Terms of reference of the consultants should be suitably finalized in
consultation with the Bank.
Assurances were obtained from DWCD that they will appoint consultants to design and develop the computerized project Financial
Management System and have it in place at the start of the project.
Auditing. Project accounts so compiled would be audited by an independent auditor in accordance with standards on auditing
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would include an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems,
ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions and eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing. The audited project
accounts, including a summary of SOE disbursements together with the auditor's opinion on them would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year by each of the participating states. The Audit report on Special Account (SA)
maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) along with a summary of SA transactions and statement of closing balance
certified by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) would also be submitted to the Bank not later six months after the close of each fiscal year.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
Project Financial Management Responsibility
Financial Management. Keeping in view the magnitude of investment on the project, the responsibility for financial accounting,
reporting, submission of withdrawal requests to the Bank and operation of the financial management system should be entrusted in
each participating state to a dedicated finance and accounting professional not less than Deputy Director rank designated and assisted
by adequate staff.
Experience with Implementation of Other Projects. There is a risk that the RCH project would experience some problems of audit
delays. Keeping in view the requirement of OP/BP 10.02, the borrower and project states would be required to provide assurances at
negotiations that they will take all necessary steps to ensure compliance with the requirement that annual audits will be submitted to
the Bank within the prescribed period of six months from the close of fiscal year.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                Procurement Metho                          Total Cost
(including
ICB           NCB          Others        N.B.F      contingencies)
1. Works
Civil Works                             -             3.0          57.5            -               60.5
(2.6)        (48.8)                         (51.4)
2. Goods
Furniture, Equipment, Toys and          -            16.0           10.8          -                26.7
Materials                                           (12.0)          (8.1)                         (20.1)
Vehicles                                                              9.2         -                 9.2
(6.9)                        (6.9)
Medicines and Medical Supplies                       13.1           48.0          -                61.1
(10.5)         (38.4)                        (48.9)
Mopeds, Motorcycles, and Bicycles                                    2.4          -                 2.4
(1.6)                         (1.6)
3. Services
Training and Workshops                                             130.5          -               130.5
(104.4)                       (104.4)
Consultancy                                                          5.9          -                 5.9
(5.9)                         (5.9)
Media Services                                         2.2           8.8          -                11.0
(2.2)        (8.8)                        (11.0)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Salaries and Operating      -                          115.0          -               115.0
Costs                                                              (49.9)                         (49.9)
Total                                             34.3         338.1          -              422.3
(27.3)      (272.8)                        (300.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds,
any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."



Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method           Prior Review I Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                        US$ millions
1. Works
Civil Works            (a) Civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of
less than US$50,000 per
contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding
US$57,500,000 may be
executed by:
(i) direct contracting up    Direct Contracting  Post review only.
to an aggregate not
exceeding US$6,700,000;
or
(ii) on the basis of   Solicitation of 3 Bids  Post review only.
comparison of price
quotations obtained from
at least three qualified
contractors eligible under
the guidelines;
or
(iii) the community for    Community,          Post review only.
works estimated to cost   Construction Procedure
less than US$5,000
equivalent; or
(iv) by Force Account as  Force Account        Post review only.
a last resort up to an
aggregate not exceeding
US$5,000,000 in a
manner satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) Civil works estimated  National Competitive  First works contract from
to cost the equivalent of   Bidding            each state regardless of
US$50,000 or more per                          value and all contracts
contract.                                      US$300,000 or more by
prior review in
accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
Expenditure           Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method           Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                        US$ millions
2. Goods
(a) Furniture, equipment  Less than US$30,000 per  National Shopping   Post review only.
contract, up to an     Procedures (includes
aggregate not exceeding   DGS&D Rate Contracts)
US$10,800,000
equivalent
US$200,000 or more per  International Competitive  Prior review.
contract               Bidding
US$30,000 or more per   National Competitive   First contract from each
contract, but less than  Bidding               state regardless of value
US$200,000 equivalent                          by prior review in
accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
(b) Medicines and      Less than US$20,000 per  National Shopping      Post review only.
Medical Supplies1      contract, up to an      Procedures (includes
aggregate not exceeding   DGS&D Rate Contracts)
USS48,000,000
More than US$20,000    National Competitive    First contract from each
per contract, but less than  Bidding           state regardless of value
US$200,000 equivalent                          by prior review in
accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
US$200,000 or more per  International Competitive  Prior review
contract               Bidding
(c) Vehicles           Less than US$100,000    National Shopping       Post review only.
per contract, up to an  Procedures (includes
aggregate not exceeding   DGS&D Rate Contracts)
US$9,200,000
'Medicines and medical suplies (US$48,000,000 equivalent) may be procured under national shopping procedures as these are small
kits with a small number of items, de-worming drugs and IFA tables, procured at the District level. On the average, each state will be
spending US$1,600,000 equivalent during the project life of 5 years or US$320,000 per year or US$16,000 per year by each district.
Therefore, to call for international competitive bidding procedures for the procurement of such items at the district level is not
advised. In addition, bulk procurement under national competitive bidding may be limited, as most of the medicines have an expiry
date.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                        US$ millions
US$100,000 or more     International Competitive  Prior review in
equivalent per contract    Bidding            accordance with paras 2
and 3 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines. All
others by post review.
3. Consultancies,                             In accordance with      US$100,000 and above
Studies, Training, Media                      IDA/Bank Guidelines     for firms.
Services
US$50,000 and above for
individuals.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million     IDA Financing
Percentage
Civil Works                                           51.4                   85
Furniture, Equipment, Toys, Materials and Vehicles    27.0          100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 80%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
Mopeds, Motorcycles, and Bicycles                      1.6                   65
Consultancy and Media Services                        16.9                  100
Medicines and Medical Supplies                        48.9          100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 80%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
Training and Workshops                                104.4                  80
Incremental Operating Costs and Maintenance           49.9          60% until January 31,
2000; 40% from
February 1, 2000 until
January 31, 2002; and
30% thereafter.
Total        300.0



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Annex 7
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                Actual
(At fnal PCD stage)
$606,000
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At fnal PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           23 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 10/30/1995             10/30/1995
Appraisal mission departure                            10/1997             10/20/1997
Negotiations                                        02/02/1998             05/18/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       05/15/1998             09/30/1998
Prepared by: Government of India, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of Women
and Child Development; Government of Kerala, Department of Women and Child Development;
Government of Maharashtra, Department of Women and Child Development; Government of Rajasthan,
Department of Women and Child Development; Government of Tamil Nadu, Department of Women and
Child Development; Government of Uttar Pradesh, Department of Women and Child Development;
National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development.
Preparation assistance: UNICEF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
A. Measham                                    Task Leader
R. Sethuraman                                 Project Specialist
M. Priyadarshi                                Nutrition Specialist
M. Chatterjee                                 Sr. Social Development Specialist
S. Subramanian                                Consultant
M. Chand                                      Procurement Engineer
A. Singh, Krishna D. Rao                      Research Analyst
N. Anand, N. Singh (SACIF)                    Technical Assistant
A. Hammond                                    Training Specialist
K. Casey                                      Procurement Specialist
K. Hinchliffe                                 Financial Analyst
J. Mukira                                     Senior Staff Assistant
E. Vincent (SASHP)                            Staff Assistant
A. Berg (HDD)                                 Nutrition Specialist
J. Greene (ASTHR)                             Private Sector Specialist
J. Balachander (AFTHR)                        Nutrition Specialist
K. Wentz (LEGSA)                              Lawyer
M. Png (LEGSA)                                Lawyer
H. Imamura (LEGSA)                            Lawyer
S. Gonzalez Flavell                           Lawyer
C. Perera (LOAAS)                             Disbursement Specialist



Annex 8
Page I of 2
Annex 8
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plans
Project Implementation Plan (PIPs) for Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh.
Proposal for assisting Central Project Management Monitoring Unit under the WCD Project
Consolidated PIP from Government of India.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Balachander, Jayshree. 1997. Background Paper on Technical Assessment.
Chatterjee, Meera. 1996. Some Lessons Learned over 20 years of ICDS.
1997. Social Assessment Summary.
Greene, J. 1996. Privatizing ICDS: Problems and Prospects.
Gupta, D.B. 1996. ICDS: Financial Analysis.
Heaver, Richard. 1997. Background Paper on Institutional Assessment.
Subbarao, K. 1989. Improving Nutrition in India: Policies and Programs and Their Impact. Discussion Paper No. 49. The
World Bank. Washington DC.
The World Bank. 1994. Impact Evaluation Report (India): Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Credit 1003-IN).
Operations Evaluation Departnent, World Bank. Washington DC.
1996. India's Public Distribution System: A National and International perspective (Draft). Poverty and
Social Policy Department, World Bank. Washington DC.
C. Other
Chirmulay, D. and I.P. Bhagwati. 1997. Factors Influencing Nutritional Status of Pre-School Children from Selected
Areas in Five States of India. BAIF Development Research Foundation. Pune.
Gopalan, C. 1995. Towards India's Food and Nutrition Security. Key note address at the National Symposium on Food
Security for the Poor, October 1995. Nutrition Foundation of India. New Delhi.
Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group. Women and Child Development Proiect: Report based on Social Assessment in
Easter Uttar Pradesh. PRA Resource Group, Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group, Gorakhpur.
Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group. Women and Child Development Project: Report based on Social Assessment in
Bundelkhand. PRA Resource Centre, Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group, Gorakhpur.
Government of India. 1995. National Plan of Action on Nutrition. Food and Nutrition Board, Department of Women and
Child Development, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, New Delhi.
1997. Approach Paper to the Ninth Five Year Plan (1997-2002). Planning Commission, Government of India.
New Delhi.
Government of Rajasthan. 1996. Social Assessment Combined Report Women and Child Nutrition Improvement Project.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Rajasthan. Jaipur.
Institute of Health Management. 1996. Maharashtra: Social Assessment -
ICDS III. Institute of Health Management, Pachod, Maharashtra.
Innovative Resource partners. 1994. Impact Evaluation: CARE-India's Title II Program. Innovative Resource Partners.
Larkspur, California.
Institute of Health Management. 1996. Maharashtra: Social Assessment - ICDS III. Institute of Health Management.
Pachod, Maharashtra.
Kennedy, E. and A. Slack. 1993. The Integrated Child Development Services aICDS) in India: Lessons Learned and
Implications for Future Policies. International Food Policy Research Institute. Washington DC.
Mode Research Private Limited. 1996. Tamil Nadu: Social Assessment. Health and Nutrition Project. Mode Research
Private Limited. New Delhi.
S. Swaminathan Research Foundation. 1992. Structural Adjustment Policy and the Child in India. Seminar Proceedings
No. 4. M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation. Madras.
National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development. 1992. National Evaluation of Integrated Child
Development Services. National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development. New Delhi.
Nutrition Foundation of India. 1988. Integrated Child Development Services: A Study of Some Aspects of the System.
Scientific Report 7. Nutrition Foundation of India. New Delhi.
Pelletier, D. L., E.A. Frongillo, D.G. Schroeder and J. H. Habicht. 1994. The Effects of Malnutrition on Child Mortality
in Developing Countries. Nutrition Section, UNICEF. New York.
UNICEF. 1996. Rights and Opportunities Situation of Children in India. Draft.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
Annex 9
INDIA: Woman and Child Development Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
(As of March 31, 1997)
Original Amount                     Difference
in US$ Millions                   Between actual
Loan or  Fiscal               Purpose                IBRD    IDA   Cancel-  Undis-   and expected
Project ID   Credit   Year                                                         lations   bursed   Disbursement
No.                                                                                        a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 360
IN-PE-9872   C19230   1988  TAMIL NADU URBAN                          0.00  300.20   45.47    25.98          70.51
IN-PE-9941   L30960   1989  MAHARASHTRA POWER                       400.00    0.00   62.67   105.16          160.23
IN-PE-9898   L30500   1989  UPPER KRISHNA PHASE II                  165.00    0.00  120.00    41.64          161.64
IN-PE-9869   L30240   1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                     485.00    0.00    0.00   227.97         214.27
IN-PE-9973   L29940   1989  STATE ROADS I                           170.00    0.00   61.41      9.98         151.39
IN-PE-9990   C20080   1989  VOCATIONAL TRAINING                       0.00  250.00  103.33    59.59         165.82
IN-PE-9982   L32370   1990  NOR REGION TRANSM                       485.00    0.00    0.00   274.82         262.82
IN-PE-9981   L31960   1990  CEMENT INDUSTRY RESTR.                  300.00    0.00    6.82    23.27          30.09
IN-PE-9895   L31190   1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                  145.00    0.00   10.00    28.71          38.71
IN-PE-9932   C21580   1990  SECOND TN NUTRITION                       0.00   95.80   29.81      4.59         22.35
IN-PE-9940   C21330   1990  POP. TRAINING (VII)                       0.00   86.70   22.74    11.44          33.36
IN-PE-9860   C21310   1990  WTRSHED PLAINS                            0.00   55.00    0.00    19.56           7.79
IN-PE-9989   C21300   1990  TECHNICIAN EDUC I                         0.00  235.00   24.26    62.48           73.79
IN-PE-9890   C21150   1990  HYDERABAD W/S                             0.00   79.90    0.00    24.17           18.30
IN-PE-9882   C21000   1990  WTRSHED HILLS                             0.00   75.00    0.00    32.76          40.51
IN-PE-9965   C20760   1990  PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAGE                     0.00  150.00    4.72    38.57          29.39
IN-PE-9895   C20640   1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                    0.00   55.00    0.00    26.49           19.71
IN-PE-10381  L33640   1991  GAS FLARING REDUCTION                   450.00    0.00    0.00    29.16          29.16
IN-PE-9906   L33340   1991  IND POLLUTION CONTROL                   124.00    0.00    0.00    23.05           -9.55
IN-PE-9958   L33000   1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                           20.00    0.00    0.00    20.00            1.25
IN-PE-9885   L32590   1991  PETROCHEMICALS                          233.00    0.00   70.30    30.77        -131.93
IN-PE-9885   L32580   1991  PETROCHEMICALS                           12.00    0.00    0.00      2.66          2.67
IN-PE-9906   C22520   1991  IND POLLUTION CONTROL                     0.00   31.60    0.00    26.24          25.30
IN-PE-9877   C22410   1991  DAM SAFETY                                0.00  130.00    0.00    99.16          110.52
IN-PE-10369  C22340   1991  MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                      0.00  109.90    0.00    42.87          44.71
IN-PE-9988   C22230   1991  TECHNICIAN EDUC II                        0.00  307.10   51.37   134.35          132.61
IN-PE-9958   C22150   1991  AGRIC. DEV.I (TN)                         0.00   92.80    0.00    16.94           9.63
IN-PE-10361  C21730   1991  ICDS I (ORISSA & A.P.)                    0.00   96.00   21.65    22.29          37.34
IN-PE-10400  L34980   1992  MAHARASHTRA POWER II                    350.00    0.00    0.00   237.75         223.75
IN-PE-9946   L34700   1992  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS II                    153.00    0.00    0.00   153.00           0.00
IN-PE-9888   L34360   1992  POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP                    265.00    0.00    0.00   113.25          91.15
IN-PE-9963   C23940   1992  POPULATION VIII                           0.00   79.00    0.00    70.95          43.03
IN-PE-9946   C23650   1992  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS II                      0.00  153.00    0.00    80.83           43.52
IN-PE-10393  C23500   1992  AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL               0.00   84.00    0.00    31.87          27.42
IN-PE-10391  C23410   1992  WEST BENGAL FORESTRY                      0.00   34.00    0.00      4.63           -.39
IN-PE-9921   C23290   1992  SHRIMP & FISH CULTURE                     0.00   85.00   48.51    24.62           56.12



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
Original Amount                     Difference
in US$ Millions                   Between actual
Loan or  Fiscal               Purpose                IBRD    IDA   Cancel-  Undis-   and expected
Project ID   Credit   Year                                                         lations   bursed   Disbursement
No.                                                                                        a/
IN-PE-10390  C23280   1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                      0.00  124.00   16.18    62.99          36.65
IN-PE-10423  L36320   1993  NTPC POWER GENERATION                   400.00    0.00    0.00   271.67         266.68
IN-PE-10416  L35770   1993  PGC POWER SYSTEM                        3j0.00    0.00    0.00   191.79          120.99
IN-PE-10424  C25280   1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMINATION                  0.00   85.00    0.00    58.84          33.31
IN-PE-9961   C25100   1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM.                    0.00   54.70    0.00    33.87            8.40
IN-PE-9955   C25090   1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC ED.                   0.00  165.00    0.00    75.73           -2.81
IN-PE-10418  C24830   1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV/SANIT.                 0.00   92.00    0.00    69.88          38.04
IN-PE-9977   C24700   1993  ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                      0.00  194.00    0.00   170.63          67.06
IN-PE-10411 C24500   1993  JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL                   0.00   12.00    0.00      5.18          4.89
IN-PE-10410  C24490   1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES                       0.00  115.00    0.00    87.58          170.78
IN-PE-10408  C24390   1993  BIHARPLATEAU                              0.00  117.00    0.00    90.15           57.72
IN-PE-10407  C24330   1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                           0.00  106.00    0.00    48.11           13.01
IN-PE-9959   C24090   1993  RUBBER                                    0.00   92.00    0.00    76.65          41.69
IN-PE-9870   L37530   1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT                      94.00    0.00    0.00    82.60          48.60
IN-PE-10457  C26300   1994  POPULATION IX                             0.00   88.60    0.00    75.26            9.83
IN-PE-10455  C26110   1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                         0.00  117.80    0.00   100.55           16.37
IN-PE-34162  C25940   1994  MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUAKE                    0.00  246.00    0.00    97.91          66.55
IN-PE-9964   C25920   1994  WATER RES CONSOLID HARYANA                0.00  258.00    0.00   199.02          40.07
IN-PE-10449  C25730   1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                   0.00   77.40    0.00    55.53           10.33
IN-PE-10448  C25720   1994  FORESTRY RESEARCH ED.                     0.00   47.00    0.00    35.00           17.82
IN-PE-10461  L39076   1995  MADRAS WATER SUPPLY II                  269.80    0.00  189.30    79.56            -.94
IN-PE-10461  L39070   1995  MADRAS WATER SUPPLY II                    6.00    0.00    0.00       .01          -4.98
IN-PE-10563  L38576   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                    144.00    0.00    0.00   144.00            0.00
IN-PE-10563  L38560   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                    350.00    0.00    0.00   200.00         -150.00
IN-PE-10463  L37806   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREVENTION               50.00    0.00    0.00    46.50           -3.50
IN-PE-10463  L37790   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREVENTION               93.00    0.00    0.00    88.00            2.86
IN-PE-10476  C27450   1995  TAMIL NADU WRCP                           0.00  282.90    0.00   237.80          36.01
IN-PE-10522  C27330   1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                0.00  126.00    0.00   108.14           12.24
IN-PE-10506  C27000   1995  M.P. FORESTRY                             0.G0   58.00    0.00    44.74            .84
IN-PE-10503  C26990   1995  AGRIC HUMAN RESOURCE DEVT                 0.00   59.50    0.00    49.71           14.89
IN-PE-10489  C26630   1995  AP IST REF. HEALTH SYSTEMS                0.00  133.00    0.00   117.57           15.70
IN-PE-10464  C26610   1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                       0.00  260.30    0.00   192.81            7.66
IN-PE-10463  C26450   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREVENTION                0.00   25.00    0.00    24.48           25.00
IN-PE-10484  L40560   1996  U.P. RURAL WATER                         59.60    0.00    0.00    57.20            -.90
IN-PE-35170  L40140   1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR  REST.              350.00    0.00    0.00   337.89            .90
IN-PE-39935  L39920   1996  ILFS-INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE             200.00    0.00    0.00   175.00           -3.50
IN-PE-10480  L39230   1996  BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL                  167.00    0.00    0.00   162.09          24.69
IN-PE-35821  C28760   1996  DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUC 2                   0.00  425.20    0.00   395.33            -.99
IN-PE-43310  C28620   1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MITIGATION                0.00   63.00    0.00    57.02           -2.14
IN-PE-39935  C28380   1996  ILFS-INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE               0.00    5.00    0.00      4.70           5.00
IN-PE-35825  C28330   1996  STATE HEALTH SYSTEMS II                   0.00  350.00    0.00   313.64           21.59
IN-PE-10529  C28010   1996  ORISSA WATER RES. CONSOL.                 0.00  290.90    0.00   236.35          -12.58
IN-PE-10485  C27740   1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                         0.00  142.00    0.00   119.22           10.60



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
Original Amount                     Difference
in US$ Millions                  Between actual
Loan or  Fiscal              Purpose                 IBRD    IDA   Cancel-  Undis-   and expected
Project ID    Credit   Year                                                      lations   bursed   Disbursement
No.                                                                                       a/
IN-PE-10480  C27630   1996  BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL                   0.00   25.00    0.00       .07          2.19
IN-PE-45600  L41140   1997  TA STATES'RDINFRADEV                    51.50    0.00    0.00    48.50          -3.00
IN-PE-44449  C29420   1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                0.00   19.50    0.00    18.67           0.00
IN-PE-10473  C29360   1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                     0.00  142.40    0.00   136.10           0.00
IN-PE-43728  C29300   1997  ENVIRON. CAPACITY BLDG TA                0.00   50.00    0.00    48.00           0.00
IN-PE-36062  C29160   1997  ECODEVELOPMENT                           0.00   28.00    0.00    25.42          -1.27
Total                                                            6,341.90 7,062.2  888.54  7,539.03
0
Active Loans      Closed Loans       IToal
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):         4,933.18         29,245.51        34,178.69
of which has been repaid:              171.68         8,344.86          8,516.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:        12,343.88        20,340.71         32,684.59
Amount sold                                 0.00           133.77           133.77
Of which repaid                           0.00            133.77           133.77
Total Undisbursed                       7,539.03            86.78          7,625.81
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio
performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1997)
In US$ Millions
Committed                         Disbursed
---IFC----                      -IIFC
FY            Company           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1964      MUSCO                      0.00       .47     0.00     0.00    0.00     .47    0.00    0.00
1975      MUSCO                      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1978      HDFC                       0.00       .41     0.00     0.00    0.00    .41    0.00    0.00
1979      MUSCO                      0.00       .19     0.00     0.00    0.00     .19    0.00    0.00
1981      ITW Signode                0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981      M&M                        0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981      Nagarjuna Steel            0.00       .07     0.00     0.00    0.00     .07    0.00    0.00
1981      TISCO                      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1982      Modi Cement               17.31      0.00     0.00     0.00   17.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984      Bihar Sponge               13.43      .63     0.00     0.00   13.43     .63    0.00    0.00
1984      India Lease                0.00       .35     0.00     0.00    0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-City Mills              .48      0.00     0.00     0.00     .48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-CECL                    .01      0.00     0.00     0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-NB Footwear             .19      0.00     0.00     0.00     .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-Paharpur                .22      0.00     0.00     0.00     .22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-STG                     .46      0.00     0.00     0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-TAN                     .03      0.00     0.00     0.00     .03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-Wires & Fab.            .11      0.00     0.00     0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      GESCO                      0.00      8.46     0.00     0.00    0.00    8.46    0.00    0.00
1986      India Equipment            0.00       .30     0.00     0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1986      ITW Signode                0.00       .30     0.00     0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1986      TISCO                      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987      Hindustan                  8.49      0.00     0.00     0.00    8.49    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987      HDFC                       0.00       .26     0.00     0.00    0.00     .26    0.00    0.00
1987      Titan Watches               .97       .39     0.00     0.00     .97    .39    0.00    0.00
1988      GKN Invel                  0.00      1.07     0.00     0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1988      Tata Telecom               0.00       .05     0.00     0.00    0.00     .05    0.00    0.00
1988      Titan Watches               1.99     0.00     0.00     0.00    1.99    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      AEC                        14.72     0.00     0.00     0.00   14.72    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      Gujarat State              11.15     0.00     0.00     0.00   11.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      JSB India                  0.00       .37     0.00     0.00    0.00     .37    0.00    0.00
1989      Tata Electric             32.30      0.00     0.00     0.00   32.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      TISCO                      8.69     12.34     0.00     0.00    8.69   12.34    0.00    0.00
1989      UCAL                       0.00       .63     0.00     0.00    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00
1990      CESC                       19.05     0.00     0.00     0.00   19.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990      HOEL                       0.00       .28     0.00     0.00    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00
1990      India Lease                1.31       .21     0.00     0.00    1.31    .21    0.00    0.00
1990      ICICI-IFGL                 0.00       .16     0.00     0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00
1990      ICICI-SPIC Fine            0.00      1.02     0.00     0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00
1990      IL & FS                    12.75     0.00     1.81     0.00   12.75    0.00    1.81    0.00
1990      M&M                         1.00     5.78     0.00     4.00    1.00    5.78    0.00    4.00
1990      MUSCO                      0.00       .42     0.00     0.00    0.00     .42    0.00    0.00
1990      Tata Electric             30.26      0.00     0.00     0.00   30.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990      Tata Telecom               0.00       .02     0.00     0.00    0.00     .02    0.00    0.00
1990      Titan Watches              0.00       .12     0.00     0.00    0.00     .12    0.00    0.00
1990      TDICI-VECAUS II            0.00      1.94     0.00     0.00    0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
Committed                         Disbursed
FY            Company           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1991      Bihar Sponge               0.00      .05     0.00     0.00    0.00    .05    0.00    0.00
1991      Block KG-OS-IV             0.00      .02     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      BSES                      45.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      Gujarat State              2.65     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.65    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      HDFC                      40.00      .32     0.00     0.00   40.00    .32    0.00    0.00
1991      ITWSignode                 0.00      .11     0.00     0.00    0.00    .11    0.00    0.00
1991      Triveni                    0.00      .36     0.00     0.00    0.00    .36    0.00    0.00
1991      VARUN                      6.25      1.35    0.00     0.00    6.25    1.35    0.00    0.00
1992      Arvind Mills               0.00     6.55     0.00     0.00    0.00    6.55    0.00    0.00
1992      Creditcapital VF           0.00      .45     0.00     0.00    0.00    .45    0.00    0.00
1992      CESC                      30.00      0.00    0.00    67.00   30.00    0.00    0.00   67.00
1992      GESCO                      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Indus VC Mgt Co            0.00      .01     0.00     0.00    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1992      Indus VCF                  0.00      1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Info Tech Fund             0.00      .64     0.00     0.00    0.00    .64    0.00    0.00
1992      Nippon Denro              28.57     5.77     0.00     0.00   28.57    5.77    0.00    0.00
1992      NICCO-UCO                  2.06      .15     0.00     0.00    2.06    .15    0.00    0.00
1992      SKF Bearings               6.70     0.00     0.00     0.00    6.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Tata Telecom               0.00      .03     0.00     0.00    0.00    .03    0.00    0.00
1992      TISCO                      0.00     3.03     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.03    0.00    0.00
1993      Arvind Mills               0.00     10.55    0.00     0.00    0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00
1993      GESCO                      0.00     2.56     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.56    0.00    0.00
1993      HDFC                       0.00      1.30    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00
1993      India Equipment            .60      0.00     0.00     1.47    .60    0.00    0.00    1.47
1993      Indo Rama                 21.88     9.84     0.00     8.75   21.88    9.84    0.00    8.75
1993      IL&FS                      0.00     3.11     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.11    0.00    0.00
1993      ITW Signode                0.00      .60     0.00     0.00    0.00    .60    0.00    0.00
1993      M&M                        0.00      .71     0.00     0.00    0.00    .71    0.00    0.00
1993      Titan Watches              0.00      .52     0.00     0.00    0.00    .52    0.00    0.00
1993      Triveni                    0.00      .75     0.00     0.00    0.00    .75    0.00    0.00
1993      20TH Century               .93       .80     0.00     5.87    .93    .80    0.00    5.87
1994      Centurion Growth           0.00     2.39     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1994      Chowgule                  15.00     4.58     0.00    27.00    6.88    4.58    0.00   12.38
1994      Crdcap Asset Mgt           0.00      .32     0.00     0.00    0.00    .32    0.00    0.00
1994      DLF Cement                15.32     0.00     0.00    17.00   15.32    0.00    0.00   17.00
1994      Global Trust               0.00     3.19     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00
1994      Gujarat Ambuja             0.00     8.23     0.00     0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00
1994      GESCO                      0.00     2.03     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00
1994      GKN Invel                  0.00      .33     0.00     0.00    0.00    .33    0.00    0.00
1994      GVK                       40.00     8.30     0.00    38.74   30.00    8.30    0.00   38.74
1994      India Equipment            0.00      .14     0.00     0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00
1994      India Lease                0.00      .30     0.00     0.00    0.00    .30    0.00    0.00
1994      Indo Rama                  0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      ICICI-IFGL                 0.00      .14     0.00     0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00
1994      IL & FS                   15.00     0.00     0.00    10.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1994      Nippon Denro              30.00     0.00     0.00    60.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      Tata Electric              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      Taurus Starshare           0.00     7.17     0.00     0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00
1994      TCAMC                      0.00      .16     0.00     0.00    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00
1994      TISCO                      0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995      Centurion Bank             0.00      3.87    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Committed                          Disbursed
FY             Company           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1995      Creditcapital VF            0.00       .60     0.00     0.00    0.00      .60    0.00    0.00
1995      EXIMBANK                   25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995      India Equipment             0.00       .33     0.00     0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    0.00
1995      ICICI-SPIC Fine             0.00       .86     0.00     0.00    0.00      .86    0.00    0.00
1995      ISIC                        0.00       .32     0.00     0.00    0.00      .32    0.00    0.00
1995      JSB India                   0.00       .84     0.00     0.00    0.00      .84    0.00    0.00
1995      Prism Cement                15.00     5.02     0.00    15.00   15.00    5.02    0.00   15.00
1995      Rain Calcining              19.25     5.40     0.00     0.00    6.00    4.72    0.00    0.00
1995      RPG Communicat              0.00      8.30     0.00     0.00    0.00    6.28    0.00    0.00
1995       SaraFund                   0.00      7.02     0.00     0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00
1995       SRF Finance                15.00     5.00     0.00     0.00   15.00    4.39    0.00    0.00
1996      CVF Oil Gas-AL              8.00      8.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      India Direct Fnd            0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00      .78    0.00    0.00
1996      Indo Rama                   0.00      2.14     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1996      Indus II                    0.00      5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1996      Indus Mauritius             0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      ITW Signode                 0.00       .54     0.00     0.00    0.00      .54    0.00    0.00
1996      Moser Baer                  5.70       .60     0.00     0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      NICCO-UCO                   0.00       .22     0.00     0.00    0.00      .22    0.00    0.00
1996      United Riceland            10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      VARUN                       5.67      0.00     0.00     6.00    5.67    0.00    0.00    6.00
1997      CEAT                       20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      GVK                         0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      NICCO-UCO                   0.00       .13     0.00     0.00    0.00      .13    0.00    0.00
1997      Owens Coming               25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      WIPRO                      10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      20TH Century               15.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Portfolio Totals:        648.50    185.79      1.81   260.83  499.13  158.22    1.81  186.21
Pending Commitments
1996       * CESC II -BLINC           0.00      0.00     0.00    37.00
1996       * DEV CREDIT BANK          0.00      1.89     0.00     0.00
1995       * IB VALLEY POWER         50.00     20.00     0.00     0.00
1997      * ITC CLASSIC              20.00      0.00    10.00     0.00
1994      * NEYVELI POWER            30.00     18.00     0.00   150.00
1994       * NIPPON DENRO ISP         0.00      6.00     0.00     0.00
1997       * NIPPON EXPANSION         15.00     6.00     0.00    25.00
1997       * OWENS CORNING           25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1995       * SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE         0.00       .86     0.00     0.00
1996       * TARUN SHIPPING           0.00       .80     0.00     0.00



Annex 10
Page I of 2
India at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           South    Low-
India     Asia  income      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      929.4    1,243    3,188
GNP.percait1995 (US$)]                                350      360      460                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                             327.0      435    1,466
Averageannual groWth, 1990-95
population (%)                                        1.8       1.9      1.8     GNP                              Gross
Labor lror  (%Y)                                      2.1       2.4      1.9
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (laest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrolimen
Poverty headcourt index (% of populaton)
Urban population (% of total population)               27       26       29
Lifeectayatbirth (years)                               62       61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               68       73       58                Access to safe water
Child malnutition (% of children under 5)              63       62       38
Accs to safe water (% of population)                   85        81      75
Illiteracy (% of populaon age 15+)                     48       50       34                Indi
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)  102       98      105                 nda
Male                 :                              113       110     112                 Low-income group
Female                                               91       87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1995
GDP billions US$)                           91.0   214.3    301.2   329.9        Economicnrfos^
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               20.8    23.9       23.2    24.2              Openness of economy
Epaorsofgoods andrnon-factorserviceslGDP     6.2      6.0      11.3    12.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.4    20.8       21.5    22.3
Gross national savingslGDP                  20.8    21.1       22.3    22.6
Current account balancelGDP                  -0.1     -2.8     -0.9    -1.6
Interest paymentsiGDP                        0.3      0.6       1.3      1.3     Savings       <nvestmen
Total debtGDP                               15.1     19.1      32.9    31.0
Total debt service/exports                  13.1     22.7      26.3    25.6
Present value of debWGDP                                       23.5
Present value of debt/exports                                 176.7       .InWotedness
1975-84  1985-95    1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual g th)                                                                     India
GDP (factor cost)                   4.0      5.1      6.3       6.0      6.0               Low-incon7egroup
GNP per capita                       1.7     3.1      6.1       4.6      4.6
Export ofgoodsand nfs               4.0     10.7      4.1      17.6      8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1994    1995
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
AgncultLue                                  40.5    33.0       31.1    30.3      20
Industry                                    23.7    28.1       28.0    28.9      10
Manufacturing                              16.7    17.9      17.4    18.4       0
Services                                    35.8    38.8       40.9    40.9       0            914
-10
Private consumption                         70.2    68.1       68.2    67.3    -20
General govemmentconsumption                 9.4    11.1       10.3    10.3                     GDI      GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services     6.6      9.1      13.0    14.3
1975-84  1985-95     1994    1995
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  2.4      3.6       4.9      3.0     30
Industry                                     5.2      5.9       8.3    10.0      20.
Manufacturing                               5.4      5.8      9.0    12.2      20
Services                                     4.7      5.7       6.0      5.3     10-
Private consumption                          4.4      4.7       5.0      4.6      a      90    91   92   93   94   9S
General govemment oonsumption                6.2      4.2       3.0      6.5    .10
Gross domestic investment                    3.7      5.1      19.8    11.2    -20
Imports of goods and non-factor services     9.3      4.7      19.8    13.7                    Evo,ts     Imports
Gross national product                       4.0      5.2       6.5      6.4
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERITMEJ FINANCE
1975    1985      1994    199S    InflaUon (%)
Dwcpices
(/o change)                                                                  15
CorJsumerprioes                             5.7      5.5     10.2    10.2    10 
InplicitGDPdeflator                        -1.5     7.6      11.1      85      s 
Govemmert finance
(%/ of GDP)                                                                    o .
Current revenue                              ..    23.5      21.2    21.3           9s   G1   92   93   94   95
Current budget baance                        ..      2.2      0.2    -1.2                   GDPdsF.    CPI
Overall surplus/detcit                       *-   -10.4      -9-0   -10.3
TRADE
1975    1985     1994    1996      Export and Import levels (mill. LS$)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   9,463    26,763   32,502    40,000
Tea                                        ..    511        311      292
Iron                                               473      413      463    30,0 -
Mn'eufactures                               .. 5,63       21,088   25,770
Total impjorts (clf)1728                                   326      385        000- 
Food                                       .. 1,321        1,464    2,354    11
Fuel and energy                             .. 4,054       5,928    6,885 6    '
Capital goods                                    3,503     6,366    7,152    l
E.ortpriceindex(1987=100)                    ..      80       118     121            89  90  S1  92  93  94  SS
Importopricindex(1987=100)                   ..      96       121     128                  oEvoxts aelfrrpats
Terrrsoftrade(1987=100)                      ..      83        98      94
BALANCE of PAYNENTS
1975    1985      1994    1996
(millions US$)                                                                Curnat cconht balance to GDP rao (h)
Exports ofgoods and non-factorsevices     5,650   1Z773    34,047   40,971    o
Importsofgoods and non-fadorservices      5,990   19,422    39,047   47,201       89 9g  S       2 94   9S
Resource balance                           -340   -8,649    -5,000   -8,236    -1
Net factor inoone                          -191   -1,553    -3,905   -4,677
Net current tansfers                       470    2,207    6,200    5,499    -2 
CuTent aacournt balance,
before olffial bransfers                  -81   -6,995    -Z705   -5,414    -3 .
Finandng denm (net)                        636    6,807     9,563    3,120
Changes in net reserves                    -575    -812    4,858    2,293    -4
R         u         m,4
Reserves induiding gdd (mnill. US$)       2,064    9,730   24,0Y79   21,930
Converson rate (locaVS$)                    8.7    1Z2       31.4    3Z4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOU6
1975    1985      1994    1996
(milions US$)                                                                 C9rpositionortotalddiit 1966(mill.t.19)
Total debt outstanding and disbwsed      13,708   40,971    98,990  10Z318                    G     A
IBRD                                     436    2,396    11,120    9,849                  5885   Ag
IDA                                     2,809    9,750    17,656   17,499
Total debtservice                          822    3,534    10,516   11,910                                  B
IBRD                                      89      313     1,598    1,716        F                       17499
IDA                                       24      124       315     357       29120
Carpositon of net resource flows                                                                             C
Offidal grants                           511      450      612      650                                   2719
Offidal aeditors                        1,280    1,424      976    1,732
Private creditors                         83    2,276       148    1,863                                 D
Foreign direct investrent                 85      106      620    1,300                         E       4843
Portfolio equity                           0        0     4,729    1,273                      3280
WVrd Bank prgram
Coniribrnnts                             917    Z882      2,066    1,427     A-IeBRD                   E- a
Disburserrt                              531    1,375     1,707    1,318     B-IDA    D- O      rwnitel   F-Pr P   |g
Prindpal rypren                           63      157    1,021    1,169      C-Iw                      G-S hot4tT
Net flos                                 467    1,218      686      149   1                          _
interestpaynamts                          50      280       891     903
Net bansfers                             417      938      -205    -754
SA2CI and Inrnafonal Eomomics Ofarbmnt er



