Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N042-IN
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Woman and Child Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed by certain 
members of International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of International 
Development Association, as amended
Dated July 6, 1999
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N042-IN 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower), and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as 
administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established 
with funds contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as amended. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the States of Kerala, 
Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh (the Project States) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Project States part of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; 
Page  2
(D)
Part C(4) of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and certain 
States and Union Territories of the Borrower other than the Project States (the Part 
C(4) States) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to the Part C(4) States part of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Administrator and the Project States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through\0bDecember 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement. 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively. 
(c)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Anganwadi”  means a village center for delivering the services of the 
ICDS Program (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“Central PMU” means the Project Management Unit of the Borrower’s 
Department of Women and Child Development within the Ministry of Human Resource 
Development responsible for overall Project implementation, management, monitoring and 
evaluation; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower and each 
Project State (as hereinafter defined), which begins on April 1 of a calendar year and 
ends on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(d)
“ICDS Program” means the Integrated Child Development Services Program, 
the Borrower’s national program of child development; 
(e)
“Kerala” means the Borrower’s State of Kerala, or any successor thereto;
(f)
“Letter of Undertaking” means each Letter of Undertaking to be executed 
and furnished to the Borrower by each Part C(4) State (as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Maharashtra” means the Borrower’s State of Maharashtra, or any successor 
thereto; 
(h)
“Part C(4) State” means individually each State or Union Territory of the 
Borrower (other than the Project States), or any successor thereto, which participates 
in the carrying out of Part C(4) of the Project by executing and furnishing to the 
Page  3
Borrower a Letter of Undertaking, and “Part C(4) States” means collectively such 
States and Union Territories; 
(i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Administrator and the 
Project States (as hereinafter defined) of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means each of the Project Implementation 
Plans of the Borrower and of the Project States for the carrying out of the Project, 
approved by the Administrator;
(k)
“Project State” means each of Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu 
and Uttar Pradesh, individually and “Project States” means Kerala, Maharashtra, 
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, collectively; 
(l)
“Rajasthan” means the Borrower’s State of Rajasthan, or any successor 
thereto; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“State PMU” means the Project Management Unit of each Project State’s 
Department of Women and Child Development or Department of Social Welfare, as 
applicable, responsible for overall Project implementation, management, monitoring and 
evaluation; 
(o)
“Tamil Nadu” means the Borrower’s State of Tamil Nadu, or any successor 
thereto; and 
(p)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the Borrower’s State of Uttar Pradesh, or any 
successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred twenty-two million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 222,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
Page  4
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2008 and ending 
June 15, 2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 
2018 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
abovementioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  5
appropriate administrative, financial, maternal and child health and nutrition 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall obtain from each Part C(4) State an executed 
Letter of Undertaking, substantially in the form set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and promptly upon its receipt forward a copy thereof to the Administrator, 
before such Part C(4) State participates in the carrying out of Part C(4) of the 
Project.
(d)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Part C(4) States to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Letters of Undertaking all the 
respective obligations of the Part C(4) States therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Part C(4) States to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(e)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit available 
to the Part C(4) States for such part of the Project as is carried out respectively by 
the Part C(4) States, in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for 
developmental assistance to the States of India. 
(f)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Project States to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the respective obligations 
of the Project States therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(g)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit available 
to the Project States for such part of the Project as is carried out respectively by 
the Project States, in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for 
developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Administrator and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out by the Project States pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any of the provisions 
of any Letter of Undertaking.
(b)
Any Letter of Undertaking shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or repealed so as to adversely affect the Project.
(c)
Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project State will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of the Administrator 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by each Project State, and is legally binding 
upon each Project State in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund 
established
with funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   36,300,000
85% 
(2)
Furniture, equipment,
   19,300,000
100% of foreign
toys, materials
expenditures; 100%
and vehicles
of local 
expenditures
(except vehicles for
(ex-factory 
cost); and
field staff under Part A(3)
80% of local 
expendi-
of the Project)
tures for other 
items
procured locally
(3)
Medicines and
   34,100,000
100% of foreign
medical supplies
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
and
80% of local 
expendi-
tures for other 
Page  9
items
procured locally
(4)
Consultants and 
   11,900,000
100%
media services
(5)
Training and workshops
   73,400,000
80%
(6)
Incremental operating
   34,900,000
60% through
and maintenance costs
January 31, 2001;
40% from 
February 1, 2001
through January 31,
2003; and 30%
thereafter
(7)
Vehicles for field staff
    1,100,000
65%
under Part A(3) of the
Project
(8)
Unallocated
   11,500,000
  ___________
TOTAL
  222,500,000
  =========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating and maintenance costs” means: (i) 
salaries in respect of posts created for the Project after June 30, 1998; (ii) costs 
of operation and maintenance of additional vehicles, equipment and buildings incurred 
under the Project after June 30, 1998; and (iii) costs of in-service training for 
field staff incurred under the Project after June 30, 1998.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of\0bSDR 
7,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1998; and
(b)
expenditures incurred in or by any Part C(4) State unless such Part C(4) 
State has executed and furnished to the Borrower a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory 
to the Administrator.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works 
under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods (except 
vehicles) under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) vehicles 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each in the case of firms and $50,000 
equivalent each in the case of individuals; (e) local training and workshops; and (f) 
incremental operating and maintenance costs; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
1.
To improve the nutrition and health status of women and pre-school-aged children 
by increasing the quality, impact and cost-effectiveness of the ICDS Program in the 
Project States, with specific goals of: (i) improving the nutrition, health and 
psycho-social status of children in the 0-6 years age group, with particular emphasis 
on preventing malnutrition among 0-3 year-olds; (ii) improving the nutrition and 
health of women, particularly pregnant and lactating women; (iii) improving child care 
practices to meet the nutritional, health and psycho-social needs of children; (iv) 
empowering adolescent girls, through increased awareness, to take better care of their 
own health and nutrition needs; and (v) strengthening the capacity at the central, 
state and block levels to provide high quality management support and training to 
staff. 
2.
To strengthen the ICDS Program in the Part C(4) States, inter alia, through 
improving the quality of worker training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Service Delivery (1)
Service Quality Improvement
Improving the quality of ICDS Program services with particular emphasis on:
(a)
the provision of supplementary feeding and nutritional supplements to 
children and pregnant and lactating women and the regular monitoring to detect 
malnutrition and promote growth; 
(b)
immunization against six childhood diseases to reduce infant and child 
mortality and provision of appropriate and timely health care services to 
beneficiaries; and 
(c)
promoting overall psycho-social development of children.
(2)
Adolescent Girls’ Empowerment
Empowerment of adolescent girls through adolescent girls’ activities, including 
the provision of iron supplements and de-worming treatment. 
(3)
Staffing and Infrastructure Development
Strengthening service delivery through: (a) staffing activities; (b) 
construction of new facilities for Anganwadis and block offices; (c) installation of 
handpumps; and (d) procurement of equipment, vehicles (including mopeds, motorcycles 
and bicycles to ICDS Program field staff by making credit facilities available to such 
staff for purchase of such vehicles) and other items.
Part B:
Program Support 
(1)
Management and Institutional Development
Strengthening management and institutional development, including study tours, 
workshops, quality improvement and preparation of new projects. 
(2)
Capacity Building for Training
Strengthening training capacity for ICDS Program staff including: (a) training 
of staff of both new and old blocks; (b) strengthening/establishing training centers 
and establishing training teams at the state and district levels; and (c) developing 
training materials. 
(3)
Information, Education and Communication
Developing, based on formative research, and carrying out information, education 
Page  11
and communication activities, including material and media services, communication 
training and campaigns and community mobilization activities.
Part C:
Central Component 
(1)
Management Information System
Designing a management information system for use by the Borrower and the 
Project States, with emphasis on: (a) rationalization of existing registers and 
formats; (b) development of core indicators for the Project; (c) identification and 
introduction of new techniques for monitoring; (d) introduction of quarterly progress 
reports and monthly, quarterly and semiannual reviews; and (e) computerization of the 
management information system. 
(2)
Nutrition Surveys
Undertaking a baseline nutrition survey and an endline nutrition survey in the 
Project States, including data analysis and report submission. 
(3)
Operational Research Priorities
Reviewing operational research priorities of the Project States. 
(4)
National Training
Strengthening training capacity for ICDS Program staff as described in Part B(2) 
of the Project and providing medicine kits for Anganwadis, in the Part C(4) States.
**
* 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Plan 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plans. 
National Training
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) by August 31, 1999, submit to the Administrator an 
implementation plan satisfactory to the Administrator for the carrying out of Part 
C(4) of the Project; and (b) thereafter implement, and cause the Part C(4) States to 
implement, such implementation plan in a manner and with a time schedule satisfactory 
to the Administrator. 
Letter of Undertaking
3.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, each Letter of Undertaking 
shall include, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a)
Each Part C(4) State shall declare its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Section 2 of the first paragraph of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and to this end, shall agree to carry out its portion of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, maternal and child health and nutrition practices, and to provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for its portion of the Project.
(b)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree to assume all the obligations applicable 
or relevant to such Part C(4) State under this Agreement and to take all actions 
necessary to undertake its portion of the Project.  Each Part C(4) State shall further 
agree to carry out its portion of the Project in accordance with the Borrower’s 
implementation plan for Part C(4) of the Project referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule.
Page  12
(c)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree that procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree that the Administrator may from time to 
time inspect the goods, works and services under the Project including all records and 
documents relating thereto.
(e)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree to carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Letter of 
Undertaking and its portion of the Project.
(f)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree to comply and assist the Borrower in 
complying with the financial covenants prescribed by Article IV of this Agreement.
(g)
Each Part C(4) State shall acknowledge that the Borrower may suspend or 
terminate its right to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit made available 
under this Agreement upon its failure to perform any of its obligations under its 
Letter of Undertaking or upon notice by the Administrator that it intends to exercise 
its remedies under Article V of this Agreement.
(h)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree to promptly inform the Borrower and the 
Administrator of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of its portion of the Project or the performance of its obligations under its 
Letter of Undertaking.
(i)
Each Part C(4) State shall agree that it shall, from time to time, at the 
request of the Administrator, (i) exchange views with the Administrator (through the 
Borrower) with regard to the progress of its portion of the Project and the 
performance of its obligations under its Letter of Undertaking and (ii) furnish all 
such information related thereto as may reasonably be required by the Administrator.
(j)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement, 
each Part C(4) State shall agree to establish and maintain a separate Project account 
and each Part C(4) State shall agree to prepare monthly consolidated state expenditure 
reports in respect of such Project account. 
Food Cost Expenditures 
4.
The Borrower shall monitor, on an annual basis, the expenditure for the food 
costs of the ICDS Program in each Project State. 
Baseline Nutrition Survey; Endline Nutrition Survey 
5.
The Borrower shall carry out a baseline nutrition survey within each Project 
State, with content and in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator, and shall 
submit to the Administrator, by May 31, 2000, a report setting forth an analysis of 
data collected in such survey. 
6.
The Borrower shall carry out an endline nutrition survey within each Project 
State, with content and in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator, and shall 
submit to the Administrator, by September 30, 2004, a report setting forth an analysis 
of data collected in such survey.
Project Management Staff; Staffing for ICDS Program
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) during the period of Project implementation, retain key 
staff of the Central PMU with adequate qualifications and experience; and (b) during 
the mid-term review of the Project referred to in paragraph 10 of this Schedule, 
review with the Administrator and each Project State the appropriate staffing for the 
ICDS Program following the completion of the Project to ensure the sustainability of 
the Project. 
Page  13
Annual Review and Work Plan
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by May 31 of each year, beginning with May 31, 2000:
(i)
provide to the Administrator an annual work plan consistent with 
the Project 
Implementation Plan of the Borrower, setting forth the 
activities under Part C 
of the Project to be carried out during the 
prevailing Fiscal Year including 
the budgetary allocations to be made 
available for such purpose, as well as 
the performance benchmarks and 
development objectives to be achieved and drawn 
from the overall 
framework agreed to be achieved under Part C of the Project; 
and
(ii)
review with the Administrator the progress achieved in 
implementing Part C of 
the Project under the annual work plan for the 
previous Fiscal Year and the 
interim plan referred to in subparagraph 
(c) of this paragraph with special 
reference to the achievement of 
the performance benchmarks and development 
objectives 
incorporated therein;
(b)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator; and
(c)
implement Part C of the Project until the formulation of the first annual 
work plan in accordance with an interim plan agreed with the Administrator. 9.
By May 
31 of each year, beginning with May 31, 2000, the Borrower shall review with the 
Administrator and each Project State the annual work plan of such Project State 
referred to in paragraph 12 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-term Review
10.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by August 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by September 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Page  14
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Civil Works
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $57,500,000 equivalent when added to the civil 
works in paragraph 1(c) of this Part, may:
(i)
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $6,700,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; or
(iii)
with the Administrator’s prior agreement and as a last resort, be 
carried out 
by force account in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator if they meet 
the requirements of the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent. 
(c)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $57,500,000 equivalent when added to the civil 
works in paragraph 1(b) of this Part, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Administrator and the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines.  
2.
Furniture, Equipment, Toys and Materials
(a)
Furniture, equipment, toys and materials estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Furniture, equipment, toys and materials estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,800,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Medicines and Medical Supplies
(a)
Medicines and medical supplies estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or 
more but less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  15
(b)
Medicines and medical supplies estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $48,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Vehicles
(a)
Vehicles (except mopeds, motorcycles and bicycles referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Mopeds, motorcycles and bicycles for ICDS Program field staff to be 
purchased through credit facilities under Part A(3) of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured by such staff in accordance with established 
practices acceptable to the Administrator.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, (b) the first contract for works from each Project State estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $300,000, 
(c) each contract for goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, (d) the first contract for furniture, equipment or medicines from 
each Project State estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more but less than 
the equivalent of $200,000 and (e) each contract for vehicles estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  16
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for training, information, education and 
communication, surveys, studies, design and construction supervision, research 
activities and procurement agents estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
Page  17
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
70,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
Page  18
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
