Report No. PID4048
Project Name                     India-Woman and Child Development Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Health, Nutrition, and Population
Project ID                       INPA35827
Borrower                         India, acting by its President
Beneficiary                      Selected blocks in Kerala, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh
Implementing Agency              Department of Women and Child Development
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Room #615, A Wing
Shastri Bhawan
New Dehli 110 001
Tel:  38 6227; Fax:   38 1800;
Tlx: 315381-WCD IN
Attn: Mrs. Rekha Bhargava
Joint Secretary (ICDS)
Projected Approval               June 30, 1998
Projected Effectiveness          September 30, 1998
Project Objectives
To improve the nutrition and health of pre-school-aged
children and women, by increasing the quality, impact, and cost-effectiveness
of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) program and more
specifically by: (i) improving the nutrition, health and psychosocial status
of children, 0-6 years of age, with particular emphasis on preventing
malnutrition in under-threes, and improve child care practices at the
household level; (ii) improving the nutrition and health of women,
particularly pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, and adolescent girls; and
(iii) empowering adolescent girls, through increased awareness, to take better
care of their personal and household health and nutrition needs.
Proposed Approach and Components
The proposed Project focuses on young children and pregnant and
nursing women with a holistic approach to child development and services
delivered by community workers. It will target disadvantaged populations,
promote decentralization and community participation, and improve worker
training. The proposed Project will be comprised of the following components:
(i) service delivery, including service quality improvements, adolescent
girls' empowerment and staffing and infrastructure development; (ii) program
support, including management and institutional development, capacity building
for training, information/education/communication activities, monitoring
evaluation, and operational research, (iii) national training, including
training improvement and worker supply improvement, and (iv) a central
component that will establish the Central Project Management Unit.
Environmental Aspects



No resettlement or environmental issues are anticipated
Project Objective Categories
The Country Assistance Strategy recognizes that
India has among the lowest social indicators in the world and consequently
supports the Government of India's attempt to accelerate the pace of social
development. Specifically, the Bank gives priority to addressing nutritional
issues through interventions linked with education, health and social welfare
services. The Bank's objective with regard to this is to (a) improve nutrition
policies and the effectiveness and efficiency of India's nutrition-related
efforts; (b) build national health capacity; (c) improve primary care; and (d)
improve health systems and institution-building in selected states. Apart from
this the Bank is also concerned about reducing the high prevalence of child
labor and improving the condition of women in the country. This project
reaffirms each of these objectives.
Project Implementation
The proposed Project will be of five years duration,
starting in fiscal year 1999 and ending in fiscal year 2003. The executing
agencies will be the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department
of Women and Child Development, and the Departments of Women and Child
Development (DWCD) or Social Welfare of the participating states. Project
coordination will be undertaken by the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU)
in DWCD, and five state PMUs. Project oversight, including policy guidance,
will be the responsibility of the Union Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Department of Women and Child Development.
Project Financing
Proposed total project cost is about US$420 million
equivalent, of which, ITF is likely to finance about 70 percent of net-of-tax
project costs. The remainder will be financed by the Government of India.
ITF is likely to finance the cost of expanding service provision (civil works,
incremental salaries, training, equipment and supplies); information,
education and communication (IEC) activities; and institutional capacity
strengthening.
Contact Point:           Dr. Anthony Measham, New Dehli Office or
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
- 2 -



