Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N042-IN
Project Agreement
(Woman and Child Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of International 
Development Association, as amended
and
STATE OF KERALA 
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 
STATE OF RAJASTHAN 
STATE OF TAMIL NADU and 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated July 6, 1999
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N042-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1999, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on \0bJune 26, 1996, as amended, and the 
STATES OF KERALA, MAHARASHTRA, RAJASTHAN, TAMIL NADU and UTTAR PRADESH, acting by 
their respective Governors (the Project States).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
hundred twenty-two million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
222,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering 
Page  2
into the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project States declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, maternal and child health and nutrition practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and the Project States shall otherwise agree, each of 
the Project States shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Project States shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each of the Project States shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and such Project 
State, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with such 
Project State on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the request of the 
Administrator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of 
Parts A and B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the Administrator of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A and 
B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
the performance by such Project State of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project States shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts A and B of the Project.
(b) 
Each of the Project States shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension; 
Designation of the Administrator
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Administrator and each of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier 
of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify each of the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Project 
States.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Kerala:
Chief Secretary
Government of Kerala
Trivandrum
Kerala, India
For Maharashtra:
Chief Secretary
Government of Maharashtra
Bombay
Maharashtra, India
For Rajasthan:
Chief Secretary
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur
Rajasthan, India
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary
Government of Tamil Nadu
Madras
Tamil Nadu, India
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
State may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons 
as such Project State shall designate in writing, and each Project State shall furnish 
to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
Page  5
with funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
STATE OF KERALA
By /s/ L. C. Goyal 
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s/ Ajay Dua 
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By /s/ Aodiiti Mehtta 
Authorized Representative
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By /s/ Thiru R. Kasinathan 
Authorized Representative
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ P. Uma Shankar 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Plan 
1.
Each Project State shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Page  6
Implementation Plan of such Project State. Plan for Introduction of Services for ICDS 
Program
2.
Each Project State shall: (a) use the 18-month plan for introduction of 
services, or such other plan as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree on, as 
the basis for the establishment of new Anganwadis in such Project State; and (b) 
thereafter implement the establishment of such new Anganwadis in accordance with such 
plan and the Project Implementation Plan of such Project State. In-Service Training 
System
3.
Each Project State shall: (a) by September 30, 2001, establish an in-service 
training system satisfactory to the Administrator for ICDS Program staff at the 
district and block levels; and (b) thereafter implement such in-service training 
system in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan of such Project State. 
4.
Each Project State shall ensure that all field-level ICDS Program staff in such 
Project State will have received at least one round of training under such in-service 
training system by September 30, 2003. Social Assessments 
5.
Each Project State shall carry out social assessments, including but not limited 
to surveys, on an annual basis by December 31 of each year, beginning with December 
31, 2000, with content and in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator, to obtain 
beneficiary and worker feedback on Project implementation.
6.
Each Project State shall: (a) promptly provide the Administrator with the 
results of such social assessments; and (b) use the results of such social assessments 
for planning purposes and for strengthening Project activities. 
Tribal Strategies 
7.
Each Project State shall implement its tribal strategies in all tribal areas (as 
designated by such Project State in accordance with applicable law) in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Plan of such Project State. 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation 
8.
Each Project State shall ensure that no civil works which may result in the 
involuntary resettlement of people will be undertaken under the Project. 
Project Management Staff 
9.
Each Project State shall during the period of Project implementation, retain key 
staff of its State PMU with adequate qualifications and experience. 
Food Cost Expenditures 
10.
Each Project State shall ensure that the annual expenditure for the food costs 
of the ICDS Program in such Project State will meet the applicable norms established 
by the Borrower.
11.
Within ninety (90) days of the end of each Fiscal Year, beginning with Fiscal 
Year 1999-2000, each Project State shall provide a written report to the Administrator 
(through the Borrower) stating that, during the preceding Fiscal Year, the annual 
expenditure for the food costs of the ICDS Program in such Project State has met the 
applicable norms established by the Borrower. 
Annual Review and Work Plan
12.
Each Project State shall:
(a)
by May 31 of each year, beginning with May 31, 2000:
(i)
provide to the Administrator an annual work plan, consistent with 
the Project 
Implementation Plan of such Project State, setting forth the 
activities under 
the Project to be carried out during the prevailing 
Fiscal Year including the 
budgetary allocations to be made available for 
such purpose, as well as the 
performance benchmarks and development 
objectives to be achieved and drawn 
from the overall framework 
Page  7
agreed to be achieved under the Project; and
(ii)
review with the Administrator and the Borrower the progress 
achieved in 
implementing the Project under the annual work plan 
for the previous Fiscal 
Year and the interim plan referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this paragraph 
with special reference to the 
achievement of the performance benchmarks and 
development objectives 
incorporated therein;
(b)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Administrator; and
(c)
implement the Project until the formulation of the first annual work plan 
in accordance with an interim plan agreed with the Administrator. Monitoring and 
Evaluation; 
Mid-term Review
13.
Each Project State shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by August 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by September 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
