                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0435



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-39330 MULT-54718)



                                       ON A

                            CREDIT AND A GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR72.4 MILLION
                       (US$105 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                            AND US$20 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR AN

              EMERGENCY POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT



                               September 28, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan
South Asia Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective September 28, 2013)

               Currency Unit    =      Afghani
               Af 1,000         =      US$18.03
               US$ 1.00         =      55.460 Afghani
               US$ 1.00         =      0.6525 Special Drawing Rights

                         FISCAL YEAR

           March 21 – March 20 (until December 2011)
               March 21 – December 20 (in 2012)
        December 21 – December 20 (from December 2012)

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
APSDP   Afghanistan Power System Development Project
ANDF    Afghanistan National Development Framework
ANDS    Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
DABM    Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa
DABS    Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat
DO      Development Objective
EIRP    Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
EPRP    Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan
ESSF    Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
ESS     Environmental and Social Safeguards
GoA     Government of Afghanistan
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
KAMPP   Kabul Aybak Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project
KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LC      Letter of Credit
LV      Low Voltage
MACA    Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
MEW     Ministry of Energy and Water
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MV      Medium Voltage
MPW     Ministry of Power and Water
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMF     Project Management Firm
PISU    Project Implementation Support Unit
SDU     Special Disbursement Unit
TA      Technical Annex
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



                  Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                Country Director: Robert J. Saum
                 Sector Manager: Julia Bucknall
             Project Team Leader: Richard Spencer
                ICR Team Leader: Richard Spencer
                                         AFGHANISTAN
                               Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
  Map 1: General Project Area ........................................................................................ 51
  Map 2: Detailed Project Activities ................................................................................53
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Emergency Power
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:
                                                                           Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P083908                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39330,TF-54718
ICR Date:               09/28/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           ISLAMIC
                                                                           TRANSITIONAL
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           STATE OF
                                                                           AFGHANISTA
Original Total
                        USD 105.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 110.24M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 105.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Water
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/09/2003      Effectiveness:                                07/27/2004
Appraisal:            02/15/2004      Restructuring(s):                            11/30/2006
Approval:             06/22/2004      Mid-term Review:        03/15/2007
                                      Closing:                01/31/2009           03/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                          Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                     Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing                    Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:                Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                                           Unsatisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       5                   15
Hydropower                                                                                  25
Power                                                                  95
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                                                60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   33                   33
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 67                   67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                        Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Julia Bucknall                        Penelope J. Brook
Project Team Leader:       Richard Jeremy Spencer                Julia M. Fraser
ICR Team Leader:           Richard Jeremy Spencer
ICR Primary Author:        Gilles Marie Veuillot


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project is to provide an improved
and more reliable power supply to the people in Kabul.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original project objective was unchanged. However, the outcome indicator was
modified to a 70% increase in grid-supplied power consumption by customers in Kabul.


                                                   ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval        Target       Completion or
                                               documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     70% increase in grid-supplied power consumption by customer in Kabul.
Value
quantitative or 284,000 MWH              482,000 MWH                         1,237,000 MWh
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2004                 03/31/2010                          03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved 256% of target.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                             approval                            Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                           documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     100 MW of hydropower capacity rehabilitated.
Value
(quantitative     0                        100 MW                            75 MW
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004               06/30/2010                        03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          75% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     11 km of 110 kV line constructed and 2 substations upgraded.
Value
                                           Construction                      Construction
(quantitative     0
                                           completed.                        completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2006                03/31/2009                          03/31/2013
Comments          11 km of line and two substations specified in the indicator name completed on
(incl. %          time, therefore 100%. An additional 66.6km of 110 kV line was also constructed
achievement)      from Naghlu to Kabul.
Indicator 3 :     MV backbone distribution system in Kabul is upgraded.
Value
                                           Construction                      Construction
(quantitative     0
                                           completed.                        completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2006               06/30/2009                        03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% completed.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     DABM is corporatized as a commercial entity.
Value             0                       Financial and                      DABS started to


                                                iii
(quantitative                            commercial                           operate as
or Qualitative)                          systems                              commercial entity.
                                         functional.
Date achieved 06/30/2004                 01/15/2008                           10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved with some delay.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                          DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     09/27/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/19/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
                          Moderately                     Moderately
  3     10/25/2005                                                                          0.94
                        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately
  4     05/16/2006                                      Unsatisfactory                      5.87
                        Unsatisfactory
  5     08/10/2006      Unsatisfactory              Highly Unsatisfactory                   5.87
                                                         Moderately
  6     02/01/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                               14.41
                                                       Unsatisfactory
  7     04/23/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                20.56
  8     10/01/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                32.44
  9     03/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                38.81
 10     09/20/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                51.82
 11     03/17/2009       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                70.23
 12     10/07/2009       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                78.18
                                                         Moderately
 13     04/14/2010        Satisfactory                                                     82.14
                                                       Unsatisfactory
 14     11/13/2010       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             89.55
 15     06/26/2011       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                   92.04
 16     01/01/2012       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                   96.72
 17     06/20/2012       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            100.42
 18     12/23/2012       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            104.84
 19     03/25/2013   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            106.30


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Unsatisfactory implementation
 11/30/2006       N       U     HU           14.41
                                                     progress. Funds switched from


                                               iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     distribution rehabilitation to
                                                     support transmission
                                                     rehabilitation and to fund
                                                     project management.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Overall context: in 2004, Afghanistan had just emerged from over two decades of
conflict. After being governed under a post-conflict interim administration, the Islamic
Republic of Afghanistan was established and a new Constitution was adopted and the
Afghanistan National Development Framework (ANDF) was set up. With the end of
armed hostilities and thanks to sizeable donor assistance, strong economic growth, albeit
from a low level of activity, was recorded. This context was perceived as setting the path
for engaging into a comprehensive development program, the objective of which was to
secure peace and offer to the citizens of Afghanistan, in the mid-term, a noticeable
improvement to their livelihoods.
Sector issues: the long lasting conflict had a severe impact on the power sector, both
directly from dilapidated generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure and
indirectly from serious management issues at Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa
(DABM) including: lack of appropriate governance structure; overstaffing and under-
qualification of staff; poor customer management; billing and collection; and below cost-
recovery tariffs.1 As a result, access to power was estimated at 6%, one of the lowest
rates in the world – with only 234,000 people connected to the public grid, of whom 30%
were in Kabul with other provinces having even less access, and rural areas being
virtually un-served.

The 2002 ANDF (2002) and the World Bank’s Transitional Afghanistan Assistance
Strategy (2003) underlined the importance of improving power supply to households and
institutions, to spur private sector development. Initial support to the sector was provided
by the Bank in 2002 under the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (EIRP), a
multi-sectorial grant aiming to address urgent infrastructure rehabilitation needs
including supply of transmission and distribution material, tools and equipment. A series
of studies and strategic documents were also prepared, including: (a) a review of short
term critical investment options; (b) a road map, outlining measures needed in the mid-
term, and (c) an electricity sector policy setting out reform needs. On this basis, the
Afghan authorities established a short term strategy with two main objectives: (a) to
transform DABM into an autonomous, financially viable utility; and (b) to significantly
increase connections with an access ratio of 77% in urban areas and 25% nationwide set
as targets. A US$ 700 million investment program was also prepared 2004-2006 and
discussed with the donors, mainly Asian Development Bank (ADB), Kreditanstalt für
Wiederafbau (KfW) and United States Agency for International Development (USAID).



1
  Until September 2009, the entity responsible for power supply, Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa
(DABM), was a department of the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW). With World Bank and other
donor support, DABM was converted into Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS), focused on
developing into a fully commercial power utility outside the MEW while remaining under state ownership.
In this ICR, for clarity we refer to DABS as the national electric utility, the reader should note however that
pre-September 2009 the term DABS refers to its predecessor, DABM.


                                                      1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The original PDO, as stated in the Credit Agreement, was: “The objective of the Project
is to provide an improved and more reliable supply of power to the people of Kabul”. The
following indicators were retained:
         PDO: rate of urban access to power increased from 27% to 65%;
         Output 1 - Existing and new customers are properly connected in Kabul:
            completion of 200,000 new connections in Kabul;
         Output 2 - Existing and new customers are properly connected in provincial
            cities: completion of 200,000 new connections in provincial cities2;
         Output 3 - Hydro power capacity is rehabilitated: 100 MW of capacity
            rehabilitated at Naghlu power station;
         Output 4 - Transmission line connecting Kabul to Naghlu is rehabilitated:
            rehabilitation of (a) 54 km of transmission line between Naghlu substation and
            Kabul East substation and (b) 27 km of transmission line between Kabul East
            substation and Kabul North substation;
         Output 5 - Breshna East Unit established and operational: (a) assets,
            liabilities and staff from DABM transferred, (b) commercial system based on
            IT is operational; and (c) yearly publication of scorecard on service delivery;
            and
         Output 6 - Organizational support with the Ministry of Power and Water
            (MPW) has been improved: (a) design and implementation of a public
            campaign supporting the reform and (b) completion of a staff training
            program for MPW staff.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
EPRP underwent a Level One restructuring in 2006.3 Funds allocated to the rehabilitation
of distribution in Kabul were significantly reduced. A new component was added to
cover funding gaps to rehabilitate the Northern transmission line, so as to allow for
import of power from Uzbekistan. Support to commercialization of DABM was
redesigned. Additional funds were also allocated to Project management resulting from
the decision to outsource Project implementation to a Project Management Firm (PMF),
and the payment of taxes. The PDO was not modified but indicators were amended as
follows, to reflect the changes in activities:
         PDO’s achievement: the indicator was changed from rate of urban access to
            power increased from 27% to 65% to a 70% increase in grid supplied power
            consumption by customers in Kabul;
         Initial Outputs 1, 2, 4 and 6 were dropped;
         Initial Output 3 was maintained;



2
    Subject to the availability of cofinancing from other sources.
3
    Presented to the Board on November 16, 2006.


                                                        2
          Initial Output 5 was modified to refer to corporatization of DABM “according
           to commercial operations”; and
          One new Output was added to cover both the new component and the reduced
           support to distribution rehabilitation in Kabul (11 kilometers of 110 kV line
           constructed and 2 substations upgraded; and MV backbone distribution in
           Kabul upgraded).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
As of 2004, DABM’s customers were estimated to comprise: 87% residential/family;
12% industrial and commercial and 1% Government (ministries, departments, schools,
hospitals, and military). Based on the sectoral analysis available at the time of
preparation, Bank financing under EPRP was to serve primarily the population of Kabul.
The beneficiaries were unchanged on restructuring.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
At approval, the Project consisted of the following six components:
       (i)     Part A: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Distribution Networks in Kabul:
               to fiannce a supply and install contract to rehabilitate and extend sub-
               transmission networks in Kabul;
       (ii)    Part B: Rehabilitation of Naghlu hydro power station: to finance a supply
               and install contract to refurbish mechanical and electromechanical
               equipment (turbine, generator), hydro-mechanical equipment (valves), and
               control, regulation, and protection equipment;
       (iii) Part C: Rehabilitation of 110 kV transmission line from Naghlu to the
               Kabul East Substation and Kabul North Substation: to supply and install
               contract to restore approximately 82 circuit kilometers of 110 kV
               transmission line and replace or repair damaged towers;
       (iv)    Part D: Technical support for rehabilitation and expansion of distribution
               networks in Kabul: to: (i) design rehabilitation and extensions of 15/20/0.4
               kV networks and layout of the consumers services and metering; (ii)
               procure a contractor to supply and install materials for Part A; and (iii)
               supervise such contractor;
       (v)     Part E: Commercialization of DABM: to: (i) carry out due diligence and
               preparatory work to restructure and incorporate DABM on a commercial
               basis; (ii) create Breshna East Unit within DABM; (iii) recruit and
               maintain for two years a management team in charge of establishing a
               customer database and a computerized financial management and
               accounting system, identifying assets and liabilities, creating financial
               statements, improving billing and collection, and training staff; and (iv)
               design a private sector participation scheme;
       (vi)    Part F: Technical assistance for MPW and DABM: to prepare and
               implement a public relations campaign, and overall capacity building and
               training.




                                            3
1.6 Revised Components
Following the 2006 restructuring, some of the Project components were amended as
follows:
       (i)   Part A: Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks in Kabul: to finance a
             supply and install contract to rehabilitate and expand the core medium
             voltage (MV) network in Kabul;
       (ii)  Part D: Technical Support for Project Management and Technical
             Implementation: for the management of Project implementation including:
             (i) undertaking activities of PMF; (ii) carrying out procurement of a
             contractor to supply and install materials for Parts A and G of the Project;
             and (iii) supervision of contractors and general Project implementation,
             monitoring and evaluation;
       (iii) Part E: Commercialization of DABM: to: (i) carry out due diligence and
             preparatory work to incorporate DABM; (ii) commercialize DABM and
             provide technical support and capacity building to its staff; (iii) thereafter,
             recruit and maintain for at least two years a management team for DABM;
             and (iv) design and assist Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW) 4 to
             implement a private sector participation scheme.
       (iv)  Part G (new): Construction of Part of the Northern Transmission System:
             for (i) construction of a 110 kV transmission line between Chimtallah
             substation located 11km north of Kabul city, and the Kabul sub-
             transmission grid; (ii) upgrading of two existing substations; and (iii)
             installation of fiber optic ground wire for the southern section of the North
             East Power System 220kV line between Pul-e-Khumri and Kabul city.

1.7 Other significant changes
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU): As part of the 2006 restructuring, an MoU was
signed between MEW and Ministry of Finance (MoF) to streamline procurement, signing
of contracts and payments procedures under the Project. It also introduced the Project
Management Firm (PMF) outsourcing much of the day to day project management to a
consultant.
Extensions of Closing Date: the Closing date for the Project was extended three times: (i)
by 20 months (to September 30, 2010) upon the 2006 restructuring; (ii) by 24 months (to
September 30, 2012) in June 2010; and (iii) by 6 months (to March 31, 2013) in
September 2012.
Reallocation of Credit Proceeds: several reallocations of credit proceeds were also
processed: in 2006 (together with the changes in activities, but also to include the
payment of taxes), 2008, 2011 and 2012.




4
    MPW was transformed into MEW in 2005.


                                             4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Choice of activities: the Project was prepared on the basis of significant analysis of the
sector, both as regards physical infrastructure and sector reform issues. As regards
infrastructure, little explanation was provided in the TA on the overall strategy to
increase access to power, including balance between generation, transmission, and
distribution, and, therefore, on the linkage between Project activities and the PDO.
Sector strategies and preparation documents suggest that the choice of EPRP activities
was made in consideration of activities financed from other sources, including
rehabilitation works to allow for import of power from Uzbekistan and on government
priorities. The number of activities was overwhelming, and resulted in an ambitious and
complex project being supported.
Choice of implementation arrangements: the decision to rely on a dedicated
implementation unit within MPW was based on the implementation history of earlier
Bank-financed projects. Considering weak implementation capacity as the “single largest
constraint”, international consultants and designated local counterparts were to form a
project implementation support unit (PISU). In keeping with other Bank-financed
projects, financial management was centralized in the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU)
in the Treasury Department of the MOF. A small number of integrated design, supply
and install contracts were to be procured, with a supervision oversight consultant for the
largest, so as to minimize implementation complexity for MPW. Implementation
arrangements took conditions into account but underestimated the challenges at MPW
whose implementation capacity proved weaker than expected.
Government commitment: MPW’s vision in 2003 was that by 2010, DABM would
“evolve into an autonomous, financially viable enterprise providing reliable, low cost
electricity supply service to all Afghan citizens in an environmentally responsible
manner, consistent with sound business practices.” Implicitly this meant to increase the
number of new connections. Continuing commitment at the higher level is demonstrated
by numerous statements by the authorities, but the ability to follow through into sound
policies and practices has been limited.
Risks and mitigation measures: risks identified covered both substantive and process
issues: (i) deterioration of security or reversal in political process; (ii) lack of incremental
power supply in particular delays affecting planned infrastructure rehabilitation to allow
for power import from Uzbekistan; (iii) weak implementation capacity (in particular in
the fields of procurement and financial management); (iv) lack of co-financing ($100
million); (v) resistance to change including customer dissatisfaction and vested interests;
and (vi) mines and unexploded ordnance. The mitigation strategy did not address some
of he higher level risks identified. Political and security issues were considered to be
beyond the control of the Project. No mitigation measures were identified for the lack of
incremental power supply or co-financing. Weak implementation capacity was to be
addressed through the use of the PISU; Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development




                                               5
Services; the Financial Management Agent;5 and relying on a small number of design
supply and install contracts. A public relations campaign was to be carried out in
response to the possible resistance to change.
Quality review. No QER was carried out as this was an emergency project processed
under OP 8.50. A Quality at Entry Assessment was completed on September 7, 2005 and
rated the project Satisfactory.
Overall quality of Project design: Project design is a coherent mix of physical
infrastructure; reform of the power utility; and support to Project implementation in light
of the sector analysis. Implementation arrangements were also chosen in consideration of
recent Bank financed operations and the list of risks identified appears realistic. However,
components chosen for financing were clearly not quick delivery activities, as is normally
expected under emergency operations. Preparation under OP 8.50 may have resulted in
some oversights, including on safeguards and poor readiness with technical designs either
inadequate or not available at effectiveness. The decision to rely on supply and install
contracts is understandable although the associated risk of front-loading of contracts by
contractors might not have been fully appreciated. Similarly, the risk of not attracting
qualified contractors to Afghanistan was not identified. The results framework showed
weaknesses. Overall, the scope, proposed timing, and conditions of preparation probably
made for an overambitious and somewhat under prepared project.

2.2 Implementation
For the period 2004-2006: there were significant delays after the Project was declared
effective and virtually no implementation in this period. The main reasons for those
delays include:
            Incomplete technical designs: EPRP was prepared on an emergency basis and
             complete technical designs were not available at effectiveness: design and
             supervision consultants still had to be recruited; detailed network designs and
             layouts still had to be prepared for the Kabul distribution component, for
             which prioritization and additional physical surveys were required.
            Procurement delays: the majority of contracts under EPRP encountered
             procurement delays. This was primarily due to project management and
             coordination issues: approval for contracts involving MPW, MoF and the
             President’s Office, lengthy approval of LCs (sometimes resulting in lapse of
             bid validity) and payment. Poor understanding of World Bank procedures
             was also a factor. A decision by the authorities in 2005 regarding taxability of
             donor-funded contracts although bid documents provided for a tax exemption
             also resulted in delays and cost overruns.
            Political uncertainty: during this period, elections were held in 2004 and 2005
             which affected the start of activities.



5
  A central procurement agency established with the help of the World Bank to assist with procurement, in
particular the evaluation of bids. Similarly, a Financial Management Agent was established at the Treasury
to assist in carrying out financial management activities.


                                                    6
               Cost overruns: out of the five bids received for the rehabilitation of Kabul
                distribution network, four were above budget (up to 80%). 6 The winning
                bidder was unable to provide a performance bond and because other bids were
                significantly above budget all of the bids were rejected.
The 2006 restructuring and post-restructuring implementation: although the PDO was
maintained, the 2006 restructuring represented a significant departure from the initial
design, both on the substance and implementation arrangements. The restructuring
enabled a shift of funds towards more advanced activities which were able to move more
quickly. During this phase, several factors continued to affect implementation.
           Overall country context: Many counterparts, contractors, consultants and the
            Bank staff seem to have had been slow in coming to terms with just how difficult
            it was to get things done in Afghanistan due to its post-conflict situation, its
            physical condition and its geographic location. The following issues impacted the
            Project:
                o Security: security concerns affected implementation throughout,
                  particularly demining and the threat of attack or actual attacks. Sometimes
                  this resulted in contractors terminating their assignments, for example, site
                  supervision in Naghlu, or seeking a change in conditions to increase
                  security.
                o Resistance to change and vested interest: resistance to change was
                  reported due to opposing local interest. One attack against contractors was
                  thought to be because rehabilitating power transmission threatened a local
                  market for fuel for generators. Interference by individuals and other
                  government departments often included demands for financial
                  compensation to allow work to continue.7
                o Transportation and climate: poor roads and careless handling of goods
                  resulted in damage. Winter conditions in Afghanistan do not permit
                  construction during three to four months of each year, and although
                  predictable were not always taken into account.
           Institutional issues: a critical improvement was the introduction of the MoU
            PMF. Nonetheless, coordination and capacity issues continued to seriously
            impede timely implementation.
            o Coordination: in addition to LCs and payments, the following issues are
               mentioned: (i) lengthy approval of customs clearance which resulted in delays
               in bringing equipment on site and sometimes in the destruction of goods
               owing to excessively intrusive border inspections; (ii) rights of way,
               encroachment and restrictions due to uncontrolled urbanization and to poor
               coordination with municipalities; (iii) poor coordination between DABS and
               MEW after DABS became autonomous. This became particularly acute as


6
  Little information is provided in the Project restructuring documentation on why this components’ cost
was so underestimated; it might be because complete technical designs were only completed after
effectiveness or country conditions because of limited competition and contractors’ assessment of the risk.
7
  Although no formal complaint is reported in this respect.


                                                    7
         contractors reached the key milestones of completion, commissioning and
         handover. The contractor was bound to MEW, but MEW was informally
         bound to accept assets only with DABS’s agreement which was often not
         forthcoming, thus creating a three way impasse that delayed contract closure.
       o Implementation capacity: country systems for disbursements and auditing are
         centralized at the level of MoF to make up for the lack of sufficient qualified
         personnel, but this creates bottlenecks. The PMF could work around but not
         eliminate all the challenges. The performance of the PMF deteriorated
         significantly from about mid-2010, and its contract was allowed to lapse in
         2011 which led to a six-month hiatus during which project progress was
         negligible.
      Technical issues: the Project has been confronted with technical problems,
       affecting the quality of deliveries, whether goods, installation or technical
       assistance. More specifically:
       o Procurement strategy: a strategy was adopted that based almost all
           procurement on design, supply and install contracts, to limit the risk of
           procurement delays and difficulties. Many contracts have subsequently
           overrun their originally allotted completion period and there have been
           significant quality problems.
       o Goods: problems are reported with respect to the quality or appropriateness of
           goods. In particular availability, quality, and installation of poles used in
           distribution networks hampered the progress of work by all contractors.
           While this was addressed through increased supervision by the authorities,
           shortages of poles meeting appropriate standards were also later reported.
           Quality issues are also reported in connection with the rehabilitation of the
           MV network in Kabul and of the substations with completion certificates
           issued subject to a list of material defects to be corrected by the contractor.
           The rehabilitation of the Naghlu plant is reportedly impaired by the quality of
           components.
       o Contractors: Although contractor qualification invariably took place, there is
           general agreement that the overall Afghan environment remains unattractive
           for many bidders, resulting in fewer bids from qualified contractors or
           suppliers. There were instances of contractors without adequate experience or
           showing poor procurement planning.
       o Consultants: Consultants’ weaknesses have been reported in the preparation
           and review of technical designs. There is a shared sense that the challenging
           country conditions, including security, make it less attractive for international
           consulting firms or individuals – which may result in less well-qualified firms
           bidding and less satisfactory delivery conditions such as limited or no
           presence on site.
       o Operation and maintenance: supervision documents starting from 2011 report
           issues in connection with overuse or uncontrolled modifications of
           rehabilitated infrastructure raising serious concerns over the sustainability of
           those assets.
The most problematic components were the rehabilitation of the Naghlu power station
and the construction of a 110 kV transmission line between Chimtallah and the Kabul


                                            8
grid, a subcomponent of Part G Northern transmission line. Delays in completing those
were the main reasons for processing the 2010 and 2012 extensions to the Closing Date.
The corporatization of DABM also took much longer than initially envisioned. A
summary of achievements by the Closing Date is provided in Annex 4.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The initial results framework for EPRP has a number of weaknesses. One outcome was
defined per component at inception, together with a performance indicator. The original
PDO indicator, an increase in the urban access ratio was not connected to the PDO which
referred only to Kabul. The 2006 restructuring adopted increased grid electricity
consumption in Kabul as the indicator but it too had weaknesses. An improved and more
reliable power supply does have a quantity dimension, but measures of quality and
reliability of electricity supply were not included. These are commonly used by
electricity utilities, but do not appear to have been available in Afghanistan in 2006 and
in consequence a baseline was not set.
In addition, the wording used for some outcomes such as “customers properly connected”
and some indicators such as references to “rehabilitation” or “completion” or “upgrade”
may have been ambiguous. More precise definitions of achievements such as
transmission lines “rehabilitated, certified and commissioned”, “connections completed
with appropriate metering equipment installed” or achievement by subcomponents such
as “connection to North East substation”, “rehabilitation of junction stations” would have
been useful. Similarly, no intermediate indicators were provided – which, in hindsight,
would have been useful, for example in the form of a tentative schedule to achieve
technical steps.
Supervision documents show a relatively precise assessment of progress per output, each
time setting out dated targets for advancement. However, in the absence of indicators
that could capture all aspects of progress towards the PDO, there is not always
consistency in progress measurement and assessment. Indicators do not seem to have
been used to adjust project management priorities to the extent possible, and they were
not routinely reported by the borrower for example in quarterly progress reports. In the
end, this has made it somewhat difficult to determine the achievement of Project
outcomes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
EPRP was not expected to raise significant environmental concerns and was rated
Category B. An Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF) was prepared,
based on two main principles: (i) recognition that detailed designs of Project activities
were not known at appraisal; and (ii) requirement that all proposed components be
screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks could be adequately addressed.
The Naghlu plant is located on the Kabul river which is an international waterway. This
triggered OP 7.50 (Projects on International Waterways) which provides for notification
to riparian countries, in this case Pakistan. However, no civil works were envisioned and,
therefore, no change in the quality or quantity of water flows. An exception to the


                                            9
notification requirement under OP7.50 was processed. OP4.37 (Safety of Dams) should
have been triggered, but was not; the policy requires that at least a dam safety assessment
should have been carried out.
Early implementation confirmed the need for capacity strengthening which was provided
by the PMF. Streamlined Environmental and Social Safeguards (ESS) to be used by
contractors were also prepared. A focal safeguards officer was selected and regular
monitoring is reported with the support of PMF. Finally, significant training was
provided to improve GoA and contractors’ capacity on safeguards clearance, with
materials translated in local language.
Some safeguards issues also arose during implementation, in particular:
       Mine clearance, which was handled by Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
          (MACA) as per the ESSF. Some accidents were reported due to explosive
          devices during mine clearance.
       Rights of way, which was handled in compliance with the provisions of the
          ESSF and the ESS, including consultation with local community along the
          proposed routes at preparation and implementation stages. A Grievance
          Redress Committee was established by the PMF-ESS team to ensure handling
          of disputes related to Project activities such as disagreements from businesses
          and residents in connection with the MV upgrade in Kabul; in some cases,
          compensation was paid to affected people by contractors. No land acquisition
          was necessary under EPRP although a claim by local people to land adjacent
          to Chimtallah substation first justified looking for alternative route. The land
          was later confirmed to be Government owned;
       Hazardous chemical leakage: recent supervision confirmed this risk from the
          poor handling of old transformers leaking oil on the ground. ESSF and ESS
          do include provisions in this respect but ensuring compliance has been
          problematic;
       Safety: a fatal accident of a contractor employee in Naghlu was reported.
          Procedures were properly handled by the contractor according to its HR
          policies, as set out in its contract.
       Dam safety: supervision of Naghlu in 2011 revealed a number of deficiencies
          in both structural and non-structural safety arrangements for the dam which
          would have been addressed had OP4.37 been triggered.
Financial Management
Some financial management concerns were reported, in particular early on in
implementation. They included lack of an asset register, lack of internal control
mechanisms, late submission of external audits, as well as a few ineligible expenditures.
While some of those issues were related to weak capacity in MEW, most are said to have
been the result of the use of country systems (AFMIS – Afghanistan Management
Information System) – whereby auditing procedures are being handled at the central level
through the Control and Audit Office. Overall, none of these issues were considered
serious Project-specific problems. Ineligible expenditures were minimal and quickly
settled and the Project was consistently rated in the satisfactory range.




                                            10
Procurement
Relatively few contracts were to be procured under EPRP and most of them were
concluded soon after the 2006 restructuring. Despite continuing institutional issues
affecting contract management such as in connection with LCs and customs clearance, no
significant problem was raised on procurement after the 2006 restructuring.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Two new projects are under preparation for delivery in FY15. They are designed to
follow up on the Bank’s existing power operations. As regards EPRP, they seek to
address the two main issues pending at Project close: complete the rehabilitation works in
Naghlu (and address dam safety issues) and provide capacity building on operation and
maintenance so as to mitigate the risk of dilapidation of infrastructure.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Afghanistan remains in the bottom 10 percent globally in electricity consumption per
capita (~ 100 kWh per year) and only 25-30 percent of its population is connected to the
grid, giving it one of the lowest rates of electrification in the world. The Afghanistan
National Development Strategy (ANDS) notes that “Energy is [Afghanistan’s] top
economic development priority, and [its] economy’s hope,” singling out electricity as
“the motor that powers [Afghanistan’s] growth.” The National Energy Supply Program
(NESP), a national priority program developed in the context of setting out a strategy of
support for Afghanistan post the 2014 transition, further demonstrates the priority both
country and donors place on support for the power sector. The Bank’s FY12-14 Interim
Strategy Note also recognizes the need to continue to address the energy needs of
businesses and people, and to support cross-border trading of energy. Hence the
objective remains relevant.
Design aimed to ensuring adequate supply at the same time as improving distribution to
end consumers. This was appropriate, given the emphasis the authorities placed on
scaling up provision of electricity to as many households as possible, often seen as a way
of demonstrating the government’s legitimacy and reach. In the light of the huge
demands being placed on donors, the division of labor between each also seems to have
been pragmatic – no single entity could manage all the needs in a reasonable space of
time. Implementation design appeared sound at the time, but events, especially
worsening security, poor contract execution and lack of supervision capacity indicate that
implementation arrangements could have been better designed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The indicator chosen for the PDO, namely a 70 percent increase in grid supplied power
consumption in Kabul, only captures limited aspects of “improved and more reliable
power supply”. Based on the indicator alone, which records consumption of 538 GWh in
2006 and 1,547 GWh in 2011, an increase of nearly threefold, it would seem that the
objective has been fully achieved. It misses other dimensions of an improved and more



                                           11
reliable supply which include increased availability of power when consumers need it,
and better quality of that supply, with fewer voltage or frequency excursions (brownouts)
or load shedding. Data from 2006, or indeed 2013, are difficult to come by because they
are not systematically recorded by DABS across the whole of Kabul.
Accordingly, it is necessary to seek proxies for quality of supply. Evidence drawn from
bidding documents and reports at the time suggests that in the baseline year of 2006,
power was rationed in Kabul, with households receiving 4 hours’ supply every other day.
With the arrival of the interconnector and the rehabilitation of Naghlu, most of Kabul
receives power 24 hours a day.8 Other than the areas supplied by Naghlu, attribution is
an issue as many donors contributed to the completion of the NEPS interconnector, but
the Project may claim some credit, since the communications link on the NEPS line, the
link from Chimtala to the Kabul distribution system through two key substations, Kabul
North and Kabul Northwest were financed by the Project, as was a significant
rehabilitation of the distribution system. Both Kabul North and Kabul Northwest now
handle about double their previous peak load and operate 24 hours a day. These suggest
improvements in availability of power at the times needed by the consumer, and hence
greater reliability.
Another proxy for improved quality is the peak load that can be served per household.
Empirical evidence from 2006 to 2011 depicts a steady increase in both the number of
households served and the peak load served following 2008 when the NEPS
interconnector was completed, as shown in Figure 1. This suggests a likely improvement
in the quality of supply because brownouts and other quality problems are normally
symptoms of overloading, which has been significantly reduced.




8
    Some areas of greater Kabul have yet to be connected to the grid.


                                                      12
                                                         Figure 1: Peak Load and Households Served in Kabul
                                              400,000                                                                      1.60

    Number of Households and Peak Load (kW)   350,000                                                                      1.40




                                                                                                                                  Peak Load per Household (kW)
                                              300,000                                                                      1.20

                                              250,000                                                                      1.00

                                              200,000                                                                      0.80

                                              150,000                                                                      0.60

                                              100,000                                                                      0.40

                                               50,000                                                                      0.20

                                                   -                                                                       0.00
                                                             2006       2007        2008        2009     2010       2011


                                                       Residential Customers (Left axis)          Peak Load (Left axis)
                                                       kW Per Household (Right Axis)

Of the intermediate outcomes, two were fully met: (i) upgrading and constructing the
critical transmission and distribution infrastructure to enable the power supply from
Uzbekistan; and (ii) developing the institutional capacity of DABM to initiate improved
commercial operations. This latter indicator was not specific but incorporation took
place in 2008, assets and liabilities were transferred in 2009 and a series of actions to
improve commercial practices was completed, including training, the opening of
customer care centers and improvement of accounting and billing. The third intermediate
outcome, the rehabilitation of the Naghlu plant and its transmission line was partially
met: the line has been rehabilitated and commissioned and 75 MW of capacity has been
rehabilitated compared with 100MW planned.
In light of the evidence discussed above it is reasonable to conclude that there has been a
substantial, though unmeasured, improvement in the quality and reliability of supply,
attributable to the project. Hence the PDO has been achieved, though with some
shortcomings.

3.3 Efficiency
For the purposes of economic analysis, the Project was divided into two sub-projects, the
Naghlu hydropower plant and transmission rehabilitation sub-project and the Kabul
transmission, substation, and distribution rehabilitation sub-project. Both showed
remarkably high returns, because in both cases the alternative would have been to
construct a standalone diesel plant which is costly to install and run in Afghanistan.
Notwithstanding the delay in delivery benefits, the cost of which impacts efficiency, both
subprojects were highly efficient. Table 1 gives details of the economic benefits.




                                                                                           13
                Table 1: Economic Costs and Benefits of EPRP Subprojects
          Subproject                               Cost         Estimated NPV        Estimated IRR
                                                ($ million)       ($ million)             (%)
          Naghlu hydropower plant and            39.64               405.63                118
          transmission rehabilitation
          Kabul transmission, substation         74.14               334.55                 81
          and distribution rehabilitation9

These subprojects represent about 70 percent of total project financing from EPRP. A
more detailed analysis is to be found in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating:    Moderately Satisfactory

Rehabilitation and development of the electric power sector to Afghanistan’s economic
growth remains highly relevant, as evidenced by continuing support from the government
and the international community. The project was highly economically efficient. There
was a moderate shortcoming in achievement of one intermediate outcome, with the
failure to rehabilitate the full capacity of Naghlu. There is also a shortcoming in the
measurement of the achievement of the objective, but other evidence suggests that the
supply has been improved and is more reliable.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
No specific poverty or social impact study has been carried out and the increase of power
supply and access to Kabul is the result of efforts financed from different sources and
donors. However, given the commonly recognized contribution of power to poverty
reduction whether on households, institutions such as hospitals or to private sector
development, it is reasonable to conclude that EPRP would eventually have a poverty
reduction impact despite its measurement challenges.10

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The implementation of EPRP has been impeded by many capacity issues both within the
implementing agencies (MEW and DABS) and other institutions. The initial plan of
building capacity within MEW through the use of PISU also had to be changed – with
Project implementation being entirely externalized. Hence at best it can be said that




9
  One contract that supported Kabul distribution rehabilitation was financed by another project, Kabul,
Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project, TF0091120, valued at $20.7 million. For analytical purposes it
is included in the Kabul transmission, substation and distribution rehabilitation subproject neither the
subproject nor the individual contract can be readily analyzed separately.
10
   Per capita electricity consumption and economic growth are 90% correlated suggesting access to
electricity is not only critical for improving livelihoods but also to unlock the potential of the private sector
(power shortage was identified as a critical constraint for businesses in the 2010 Investment Climate
Assessment).


                                                      14
DABS is aware of the need to build institutional strength and external consultants/firms
are not the solution to its problems.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
It is reasonable to consider that the both the rehabilitation of Naghlu and improved
delivery of power through NEPS allowed for a significant reduction of use of private
diesel generators. While there is no specific study to confirm this, this would represent a
positive impact on the environment.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable as this is a Core ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:   High

The PDO is measured by an improved and more reliable power supply to the people of
Kabul. From this point of view, the risk of reversal seems low. It is important, however,
to underline that poor operations and maintenance including overuse to meet the rapidly
increasing demand for power and lack of maintenance of the infrastructure incurs a very
significant risk of dilapidation: supervision reports already mention damage from
overloading. In addition, country factors such as security, political instability and overall
governance continue to present risks that could directly affect the achievements of EPRP.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating:   Moderately Unsatisfactory

Considering the post-conflict environment, Project preparation appears to have
undergone a reasonable level of due diligence: significant analysis was conducted on both
infrastructure and sector reform needs; a series of preparation missions were carried out
with proper staffing; extensive discussions were held with GoA and donors; and the
Project was subject to proper internal review. It also appears that efforts were made to
allow for a quick start. On the other hand, the clearly identified overall Afghan context:
weak implementation capacity together with the preparation under emergency procedures
suggests that the project was over ambitious. The results framework also showed
substantial weaknesses. The failure to trigger OP 4.37 (Safety of Dams) represents a
significant shortcoming.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating:   Moderately Unsatisfactory

Regular supervision is reported and thorough attention to technical, fiduciary and
safeguards issues are documented. The decision to restructure the Project in 2006 was a
bold and efficient response to the problems identified and, therefore, a positive element


                                             15
of Bank supervision. Nonetheless, Bank supervision suffered from some significant
shortcomings:
        While frequent supervision is reported during the first two years of
          implementation, lack of permanent presence of a TTL in Kabul severely
          affected early implementation. The first TTL to be based in Kabul took office
          in 2007 and there was a further period from 2010-2011 when there was no
          resident TTL.
        Infrequent supervision on sites is reported. Security conditions in Afghanistan
          deteriorated between 2006-2010 making field visits difficult to arrangeIfforts
          to find innovative solutions earlier might have paid off.
        While the quality of supervision reports is good overall, they are not
          consistent in their presentation throughout the Project, which sometimes
          makes it difficult to assess progress from one report to the other. As
          indicated, this is probably due to the lack of pre-established intermediate
          indicators and possibly to the several changes in TTLs, too. Little information
          is available on safeguards in supervision aide memoires between 2011 and
          2013.
        Although management of the PMF contract and overseeing its activities was
          primarily the responsibility of MEW, the lack of more proactive supervision
          by the Bank may have contributed to its deteriorating performance and was a
          significant contributor to the contract’s lapse and the subsequent hiatus in
          activity.
        Accepting that the lack of identification of civil works needed at Naghlu was
          the result of the emergency nature of preparation, supervision could have
          picked up the dam safety issues and addressed them sooner. Similarly,
          problems in connection with operation and maintenance could have been
          identified earlier.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:   Moderately Unsatisfactory

Both preparation and supervision showed some significant shortcomings. A more
realistic approach at inception and a somewhat more efficient utilization of resources
during implementation would have been desirable. As both quality at entry and
supervision are rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, an overall Moderately Unsatisfactory
rating is warranted.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating:   Unsatisfactory

Continuing coordination issues among Government stakeholders (among ministries and
with DABS, from central level to local level, from fiduciary to technical issues) was one
of the main impediments to implementation. To a large extent, this is probably a result of
Afghanistan’s post-conflict situation and an illustration that rebuilding an operative,
capable public administration remains one of the country’s main challenges.


                                            16
Arrangements to mitigate these challenges, such as giving MoF responsibility for all
disbursement matters, risks bottlenecks in processing and thus slows down
implementation. It should be underlined that this rating is not geared towards one
institution in particular, as the various authorities involved in the Project in particular
MEW and MoF are said to have always shown, when solicited, responsiveness and
willingness to sort problems out. Seeking speedy, coordinated action from various public
stakeholders required an almost day-to-day involvement from those involved in Project
implementation, which took twice as long as originally planned, and as such was a major
shortcoming warranting an Unsatisfactory rating.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:   Moderately Unsatisfactory

Capacity issues at MEW significantly impacted the early implementation of the Project
(2004-2006) and timely implementation continued to be an issue throughout as illustrated
by the sudden deterioration when there was no PMF in 2011. It should be recognized here
that low capacity had been identified upfront (“single major constraint”). Some
improvements are also reported over the life of the Project, in particular in the fields of
financial management, procurement and management of safeguards. On the technical
front, the corporatization of DABM is also said to have brought some positive changes in
the management of infrastructure – and some capacity was built for commercial operation.
Coordination between MEW and DABS remains problematic, and it is difficult to rate
performance other than Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:   Unsatisfactory

Where two ratings for Borrower performance are Unsatisfactory and Moderately
Unsatisfactory then an overall rating of Unsatisfactory is justified.

6. Lessons Learned
EPRP provides a series of lessons for emergency operations in post-conflict countries, the
Afghan context and the power sector.
   Emergency operations in post conflict countries, in particular infrastructure
    o Scope, costing, timing and readiness for implementation: EPRP had too wide an
      agenda. A more limited scope could have been chosen focusing on activities: (i)
      that were of the highest priority; (ii) the feasibility of which had been properly
      assessed; (iii) that had been sufficiently prepared, possibly with the use of
      preparation funds; and (iv) were ready for implementation at effectiveness. Cost
      overruns especially for rehabilitation works could also have been expected and
      good practice here would have been to keep a larger than usual amount of Project
      funds unallocated or to have had higher than usual contingencies. Similarly,
      delays should have been anticipated, so that the time needed to complete the
      project was assessed with a sufficient margin. Combining these factors suggests a
      good strategy is to start small, keeping funds unallocated and allowing a sufficient


                                            17
      time margin. A phased approach would allow the [roject to be scaled up as other
      activities become ready for implementation and the capacity of the implementing
      agency was built.
    o Use of ERLs: several problems encountered by EPRP are traceable to the
      emergency nature of preparation. To a large extent this issue is now addressed
      with the introduction of OP10.00.
    o Proactivity and flexibility: the decision to restructure EPRP resulted in an almost
      immediate improvement in Project implementation, showing the benefits of
      proactivity. It is a useful reminder that flexibility to adapt to the inevitably
      changing conditions is essential in a post-conflict environment. Here again,
      keeping funds unallocated at Project or country level may allow response to
      unanticipated needs.
    o Presence on site: the use of the PMF confirmed that day-to-day attention is
      required however regular supervision because it is unlikely to tackle the small yet
      blocking issues that arise, in particular at project start. The Bank should make its
      best efforts to ensure that the TTL is in country when the project starts.
   The Afghan context
    o Staffing vs. use of consultants: Afghanistan is confronted by a tension between
       the absolute, long term need to recreate capacity within public institutions and the
       short term need to deliver projects critical for the reconstruction of the country.
       The use of the PMF brought improvements to implementation, but at the expense
       of reducing the incentive for MEW to seek to build its own capacity. Capacity
       development is an essential part of any investment operation in a post-conflict
       country and may need to take priority over pace of implementation.
    o Quality: EPRP has been confronted with serious quality issues with consultants,
       contractors and goods. This touches upon the issue of a realistic assessment of
       project costs and the need to understand what will attract the best suited
       contractors and consultants, and possibly considering more modest deliverables
       on this basis. Where no flexibility appears on this front, the risk of poor quality
       deliveries should be acknowledged.
    o Procurement method: in many design, supply and installation contracts, there is
       an asymmetry of value between contractor and employer, and this is particularly
       acute with power distribution projects. The contractor value added – and profit –
       accrues mostly in the design and supply stage. The value added for the employer,
       though, increases as installation is completed and customers are connected.
       Splitting installation off and leaving it to a local firm, thus also helping to build
       local contracting capacity, may be a better option, combined with adjustable
       payment schedules or retention amounts to reflect each step of the process in
       terms of value added for the employer, thus better aligning incentives.

 Utility reform and corporatization
The corporatization of DABS was a solid achievement under EPRP which provides three
lessons:
    o Corporatization of utilities is complex and time consuming: the contract to assist
       on corporatization was concluded soon after effectiveness, although DABS did
       not start to operate autonomously until 2009. A single-project approach which


                                            18
     then considers it done does not properly reflect the evolutionary nature of this
     kind of work.
   o Corporatization represents a significant shift in the operation of the sector: the
     three-way coordination of handover of finished assets between contractor, MEW
     and DABS could have been avoided if the ownership of the contracts had
     transferred with DABS at the time it became autonomous from MEW.
   o Operations and maintenance: focusing on infrastructure rehabilitation is natural
     when looking at the immense needs of a country like Afghanistan. Sustainability
     of this investment rests in the capacity to manage, operate and maintain the
     infrastructure and is as much a governance as a financing and capacity matter. It
     is, therefore, essential to ensure that the financing of rehabilitation be coupled
     with an appropriate governance, financing and training structure for operations
     and maintenance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
MEW noted that the main challenge it faced during project implementation was the
evolution of the roles of it and DABS. In the early part of the project DABM was a
department within MEW. Upon corporatization, DABS became autonomous and hence
MEW’s authority was reduced but its implementation responsibilities were not. MEW
recognizes that its capacity is an area in need of continuous improvement, and was
disappointed to note that its performance had been rated Unsatisfactory, though it agrees
with the reasons given for this rating. MEW also considers that the project was impacted
by the lack of an in-country TTL from 2010 to 2011.
Country specific factors are also noted as affecting the ability to implement the project
satisfactorily, most notably the post-conflict situation, the physical situation and the
geographical location. It also points to the weaknesses of contractors affecting the
timeliness of implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Consultations were carried out with ADB, KfW and USAID as part of the preparation of
this ICR. All donors confirmed the challenges of operating in the Afghan environment –
on the very issues with which EPRP was confronted: volatile security; poor coordination
among institutions including MEW and DABS; weak planning, implementation and
project management capacity, the use of PIUs offering only a limited response; and
quality of consultants and contractors. ADB, which has the largest power portfolio, also
confirmed facing significant slippages and delays as a result.
Overall, there is recognition that power remains an issue of primary importance for the
development of the country – with efforts needed on all fronts, i.e. generation,
transmission and distribution. While Kabul is now relatively well served compared to the
rest of the country, in part thanks to the combined efforts over the past decade (including
EPRP), there is also a sense that continued efforts will be required in the capital city, in
particular for distribution. The following three priorities emerged:



                                            19
o Training: need to focus on capacity building in operation, maintenance and
  supervision – with more efforts needed on design, availability of translated
  materials, training with clear deliverables and proper monitoring and follow-up;
o Institutional reform: need for clarification of mandates, in particular among MEW
  and DABS – as a normal evolution should be for the power utility to be in charge
  of managing infrastructure investments and operation which, in turn, may mean
  channeling external assistance through DABS;
o Coordination among donors: whereas dialogue and exchange of information are
  said to have been good, more coordination is needed. This applies in particular to
  ensuring coherence of interventions and institutional arrangements including the
  role of DABS, MEW and of other institutions, such as the Environmental Agency.
  The preparation of the new Power Sector Master Plan is considered to be a
  positive step for improved coordination.




                                      20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
             Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)11                                  Appraisal
                                                                   millions)
REHAB. OF DISTRIB.
                                               25.00                   33.26                133
NETWORKS IN KABUL
REHAB. OF NAGHLU HYDRO
                                               30.60                   34.51                113
POWER STATION
REHAB. OF TRANSMISSION
                                                7.70                    7.19                 93
LINE FROM NAGHLU-KABUL
TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR
REHAB. OF DISTRIBUTION                          7.00                   13.47                192
NETWORKS IN KABUL
COMMERCIALIZATION OF
                                               10.70                   10.12                 95
DABM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                2.50                    3.52                141
FOR MPW AND DABM
Completion of Northern
                                               27.00                   27.55                102
Transmission System

           Total Baseline Cost                110.50                                        117
Taxes and Contingencies                        14.50                     0.00
            Total Project Costs               125.00                   129.62
     Total Financing Required                 125.00                   129.62

(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of           Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing          (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                              millions)  millions)12
Borrower                                                        0.00        0.00          0
International Development
                                                              105.00           110.24             105
Association (IDA)
Foreign Multilateral Institutions
                                                               20.00            18.09              90
(ARTF)




11
     Revised components from restructuring of November 2006
12
     As of September 28, 2013


                                                  21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

EPRP comprised seven components. Following the 2006 restructuring, the number of
outputs was reduced to three. Below is a summary of Project achievements based on the
agreed outputs and per Project component.

   1) Outputs based on Outcome Indicators

Outcome                                    Indicator(s)                         Achievements and assessment by
                                                                                close of Project
Outcome 1: the main hydropower              100 MW of hydropower capacity         Achieved 75% of the goal - three
generation     facility    and       its    rehabilitated.                        generation units rehabilitated (units
transmission line are rehabilitated.                                              4, 3 and 2 for a total of 75 MW of
                                                                                  which two currently generate
                                                                                  23MW); Unit 1 requires a shaft
                                                                                  repair to be completed under a
                                                                                  follow-up project. 90 route km of
                                                                                  110kV line from Naghlu to Kabul
                                                                                  East      substation     has     been
                                                                                  rehabilitated.
Outcome      2:     upgrading      and      (a) 11 km of 110 kV line               Constructed/rehabilitated        16.8
constructing the critical transmission      constructed to connect Chimtallah     route km (23.6 circuit km) of 110
and distribution infrastructure to          220 kV substation with Kabul          kV line from Chimtala Substation
enable the power supply from                network;                              to      NW      Substation,     North
neighboring countries.                      (b) two 110 KV substations            Substation, and to interconnection
                                            upgraded in Kabul City; and           with East Substation.
                                            (c) MV backbone distribution          - Expanded both NW Substation
                                            system in Kabul upgraded.             and North Substation with 2 x 40
                                                                                  MVA transformers (total = 160
                                                                                  MVA).
                                                                                  - Installed 54 km of MV
                                                                                  underground cable.
                                                                                  - Rehabilitated/expanded 334 km
                                                                                  of MV overhead distribution lines.
                                                                                  -     Installed    59     distribution
                                                                                  transformers
                                                                                  Assessment: line and substations in
                                                                                  service; construction of the
                                                                                  backbone distribution system in
                                                                                  service.
Outcome       3:   developing  the          DABM is corporatized according to     Assessment:
institutional capacity of DABM to           commercial operations.                DABM incorporation took place in
initiate    improved     commercial                                               2008, Board nominated, assets and
operations.                                                                       liabilities were transferred in 2009
                                                                                  and a series of actions to improve
                                                                                  commercial         practices      was
                                                                                  completed, including training, the
                                                                                  opening of customer care centers
                                                                                  and improvement of accounting
                                                                                  and billing and customer service
                                                                                  also reported.




                                                      22
    2) Outputs per Project component

Component                         Achievements by the Close of the Project

A: Rehabilitation of Distribution The focus of the rehabilitation was on the MV distribution backbone. The
Networks in Kabul.                completion certificate for the MV distribution system was issued in July 2012,
                                  subject to the rectification of defects found during inspection. The contractor has not
                                  responded to these requests. MEW is considering hiring another contractor to
                                  complete the work required, at the contractor’s expense (which will be financed from
                                  the performance guarantee).

B: Rehabilitation of Naghlu       Refurbishment of Unit Nos.4, 3 and 2 has been completed and the units are in
hydro power station.              service. Unit No. 1 is awaiting spare parts from Russia, including a rehabilitated or
                                  new rotor shaft.


C: Rehabilitation of 110 kV      Rehabilitation of the Naghlu to Kabul 54 km 110kV transmission line has been
transmission line from Naghlu to completed and the line is in service.
the Kabul East Substation and
Kabul North Substation

D: Technical Support for Project The scope of this component was to hire a PMF to handle all the implementation.
Management and Technical         The contract with the PMF was concluded in 2007 (through an amendment of the
Implementation.                  contract with the firm acting a design and supervision consultant). This contract
                                 expired in July 2011. A new PMF contract was concluded in January 2012, financed
                                 under APSDP.

E: Commercialization of DABM DABM officially started operating as a state-owned company, DABS, in September
                             2010. All former DABM staff as well as the utility's assets and liabilities have been
                             transferred to the new corporation. Actions have also been carried out to improve
                             accounting and billing and customer service.

Component F: Technical      This was also added to the mandate of the PMF. A senior planning adviser was
assistance for MPW and DABM made available and planning staffs have been provided with a software analysis tool
                            (PSS/E). They have conducted load flow studies for second circuit energization of
                            the North East Power System, calculated load flow analysis for Kabul city during
                            winter, developed an unbalanced fault analysis model for the Afghan transmission
                            network and prepared a continuous transmission and project monitoring and
                            recording system. The Planning Department at MEW continues to use this software
                            regularly for various transmission studies.




                                                     23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
For the purposes of the economic analysis, the project was divided into two sub-projects:
(i) Naghlu hydropower plant and transmission rehabilitation; and (ii) Kabul transmission,
substation and distribution rehabilitation. This allowed definition of sub-project
boundaries coherent with the physical works undertaken and comparison with the
counterfactual. Table 3.1 summarizes the economic costs of the two subprojects.
              Table 3.1: Economic Costs and Benefits of EPRP Subprojects
        Subproject                                Cost         Estimated NPV       Estimated IRR
                                               ($ million)       ($ million)            (%)
        Naghlu hydropower plant and              39.64             405.63               118
        transmission rehabilitation
        Kabul transmission, substation           74.14             334.55                81
        and distribution rehabilitation13

These subprojects represent about 70 percent of total project financing from EPRP.
Naghlu Hydropower Plant and Transmission Rehabilitation
The benefits of the Naghlu Rehabilitation and Transmission sub-project are estimated
based on the avoided costs of the next-least-cost alternative to achieve the subproject’s
objective. The subproject was aimed at restoring 100 MW of hydro generation capacity to
serve Kabul. Without the project, the aging Naghlu plant would have eventually failed.
When the project started in 2005, it was estimated that Naghlu would no longer be able to
supply power to Kabul within 3-5 years. The transmission line was operating but was out
of electrical and mechanical balance and frequently broke down and would have also
failed catastrophically, probably sooner rather than later. Therefore, given the lack of
available generation, the only viable alternative to rehabilitating Naghlu and the
transmission line would have been to construct a diesel plant to supply the same amount
of power to Kabul; such diesel plant could have been located close to Kabul East
substation where the Naghlu transmission line terminates, and thus no additional
transmission cost would have been incurred. This is used as the counterfactual for the
analysis.
The avoided cost of this alternative is based on the cost of the 105 MW Tarakhil plant,
which USAID actually funded and constructed just east of Kabul shortly after the Naghlu
project started.14 The cost avoided by the Naghlu project is assumed to be the cost of
constructing the diesel plant and running it to generate the same energy produced. Since
the rehabilitation of Unit 1 at Naghlu is not complete during the project period, it is




13
   Two contracts that supported Kabul distribution rehabilitation were financed by another project, Kabul,
Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project, TF0091120, valued at $22.9 million. For analytical purposes it
is included in the Kabul transmission, substation and distribution rehabilitation subproject because neither
the subproject nor the individual contract can be readily analyzed separately and to avoid double counting
of benefits.
14
   USAID decision to fund and construct the Tarakhil plant was complemented the rehabilitation of Naghlu
and vice-versa.


                                                    24
assumed that a diesel plant of only 75MW would be needed to meet the same peak
demand as the rehabilitated Naghlu.
The Tarakhil plant cost approximately $350 million for 105MW, so this cost is scaled
down by 25% to $262 million. In addition, the Tarakhil project was subject to significant
delays and cost overruns. Therefore, in order to be conservative in the analysis presented
here, we have assumed that a contractor able to avoid the cost overruns would have been
able to construct a comparable plant for half the cost ($131 million). This is still
$1,750/kW, but it is probably about the lowest cost such a plant could be constructed in
Kabul given the significant security and logistical challenges. Although it was expensive,
the Tarakhil plant is modern and highly efficient, with a heat rate of about 9,000
Btu/kWh (38% efficiency). The analysis here assumes that the plant constructed as an
alternative to rehabilitating Naghlu would be equally efficient.
In summary, the economic benefit analysis relies on the following assumptions:
     75 MW diesel plant construction cost of $131 million and a construction period of
      three years;
     Efficiency as high as Tarakhil (38%), which amounts to diesel fuel consumption
      of 243 liters per MWh;
     Annual generation of 289,000 MWh, the same as Naghlu’s historical average.
      Although the capacity factor for the diesel plant would be a relatively low 33%, it
      would not be possible to reduce it in size since it would not be able to meet the
      peak load of 75MW;
     The Naghlu rehabilitation was expected to extend the life of the plant by 25-30
      years. However, the period of analysis of the avoided alternative cost is
      conservatively constrained here to 20 years (3 for construction plus 17 for
      operation);
     Cost of diesel is 60 Afs per liter ($1.09 at the current exchange rate of 55
      Afs/USD). This is the current cost and is assumed to hold constant in real terms;
     Operation and maintenance costs are excluded on the assumption that they would
      be approximately the same as they would have been at Naghlu (even though
      O&M would typically be higher at a diesel plant than a hydro).
Based on these assumptions, the economic benefit of Naghlu is computed to have a net
present value of $405 million at a discount rate of 12 percent, and an internal rate of
return of 118 percent. More details are presented in Table 3.2.
               Table 3.2: Economic Benefits of Naghlu Rehabilitation
            Item                                           Value ($)
            Cost of Naghlu Project (Net of Tax)           39,637,148
            Avoided Cost of Alternative:
                75 MW Diesel Plant in Kabul               131,250,000
                Annual Fuel Cost (for 17 Years)            76,733,846
            Net Present Value (@12%)                      405,625,317
            IRR                                              118%

Kabul transmission, Substation and Distribution Rehabilitation
The primary quantifiable impact of the project was increasing the capacity of the Kabul
Northwest and Kabul North substations by 160 MVA (about 128 MW), which more than


                                              25
doubled the capacity of the substations and increased Kabul’s total substation capacity by
50%. The impact of the project on Kabul’s substation capacity is seen in Table 3.3.
                          Table 3.3: Kabul Substation Capacity
                                 Without Project              Additional with Project          Total
                                         Capacity                        Capacity         Capacity
Substation             Transformers                       Transformers
                                         MVA        MW*                  MVA       MW*    MVA      MW*
Chimtala               110/20-15 kV
                       2 x 40 MVA        80         64                                    80     64
Kabul Northwest        110/15 kV
                       2x25 MVA                           110/20-15 kV
                       1x20 MVA          70         56    2x40 MVA       80      64       150    120
Kabul North            110/20-15kV                        110/20-15kV
                       2x40 MVA          80         64    2x40 MVA       80      64       160    128
Breshna Kot            110/20-15kV
                       2x25 MVA          50         40                                    50     40
Kabul East             110/20-15 kV
                       1x25 MVA
                       1x20 MVA          45         36                                    45     36
Total                                    325        260                  160     128      485    388
* Assumes a power factor of 0.8
Quantifying the project’s benefits is not straightforward, but it is reasonable to credit the
project with enabling the closing down of the NW Kabul diesel plant. This is because
without the project’s upgrade of the transmission lines from Chimtala (the end of the
NEPS 220 kV line) and the expansions of the Kabul Northwest and Kabul North
substations (the substations fed by the NW Kabul diesel plant), the cheap and reliable
power from NEPS would not have been able to replace the expensive and unreliable
power from NW Kabul. Also, because the NEPS power is not synchronized with the rest
of the grid, the power is always isolated, generally fully loading the Kabul Northwest
substation and at least partially loading the Kabul North substation on a segregated bus.
Hence the impact of the NEPS power made available by the sub-project can be
distinguished from other projects being implemented at the same time in Kabul. Even
assuming that the project benefits are limited to just displacing the 44 MW of generation
from NW Kabul diesel plant, the value of this benefit is significant. In 2006, prior to the
Project, NW Kabul produced 124,000 MWh, 23% of Kabul’s total generation. Despite
renovations, the plant was just 18% efficient (heat rate of 18,500 Btu/kWh), which meant
that it consumed diesel at the rate of 500 liters per MWh. At current fuel prices of $1.09
per liter, this amounts to a fuel cost of generation of 54.5 cents per kWh, and an annual
fuel cost of about $67 million. Assuming that the sub-project displaced just this fuel cost
in flat real terms for twenty years, the benefits are significant and summarized in Table
3.4.
         Table 3.3: Summary of Benefits of Kabul Rehabilitation Subproject
                                             Units         Value
                Cost of Project              USD           74,136,246
                Generation                   MWh           123,779
                NW Kabul Efficiency          Liters/MWh    500
                Annual Fuel Consumption      Liters        61,889,500
                Price of Fuel                Afs/Liter     60
                                             USD/Liter     1.09



                                              26
               Annual Cost of Fuel       USD            67,515,818
               Fuel Cost of Generation   Cents/kWh      54.5
               Price of NEPS Power       Cents/kWh      6.0
               Cost of NEPS Power        USD            7,426,740
               Net Avoided Cost of       USD            60,089,078
               Generation
               NPV @12%                                 334,549,765
               IRR                                      81%
Benefits are based on just the avoided cost of fuel for NW Kabul to generate the 124,000
MWh it produced in 2006 prior to the start of the sub-project, replacing 55 cent/kWh
diesel power with 6 cent/kWh imported NEPS power. The subproject actually
significantly contributed to the delivery of 1 million MWh to Kabul in 2011, eight times
this amount, but it is not appropriate or necessary to credit the subproject with that
additional benefit. No account is taken for the avoided emissions and thus the reduce
health impact of shutting down the NW Kabul plant as there are insufficient data with
which to calculated the health or other damages.




                                          27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                           Title              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Julia M. Fraser            Sr. Financial Specialiast        SASEI
Fowzia Hassan              Operations Analyst               LCSEG
Pedro Emilio Sanchez
                           Sr Energy Spec.                  SASEI
Gamarra
Anthony Sparkes            Consultant                       SASEI
Supervision/ICR
Afsana Afshar              Consultant                       SASDE
Manoj Agrawal              Consultant                       SARFM
Toufiz Ahmed               Sr. Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Asif Ali                   Sr. Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Mohammad Anis              Energy Specialist                SASDE
Christophe E. Bosch        Senior Water and Sanitation Ec   ECSSD
Paramjit Singh Dhingra     Power Engineer                    SASEI
Nagaraju Duthaluri         Sr. Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Minerva Espinosa-Apurada   Program Assistant                SASDE
Deepal Fernando            Sr Procurement Spec.             SARPS
Michael Haney              Sr Energy Spec.                   SASEI
Shawkat Muhammad
                           Procurement Spec.                SARPS
Quamrul Hasan
Obaidullah Hidayat         Environmental Specialist         SASDI
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi        Operations Analyst               SASEI
Asila Wardak Jamal         Consultant                       SASDE
Mesfin Wodajo Jijo         Sr. Transport Specialist         SASDT
Sunil Kumar Khosla         Sr Energy Specialist             SASDE
Uruj Ahmad S. Kirmani      Consultant                       SARPS
Arum Kumar Kolsur          Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Vardah Khalil Malik        Assoc. Investment Off.           CMERI
Asha Narayan               Sr. Financial Management Spec. SARFM
Kenneth O. Okpara          Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development Spec   SASES
Abdul Hameed Quraishi      Operations Officer               SASDE
Mohammad Arif Rasuli       Sr. Environmental Spec.          SASES
Pedro Emilio Sanchez
                           Sr Energy Spec.                  SASEI
Gamarra
Richard Spencer            Country Sector Coordinator       SASDE
Gilles Veuillot            Consultant                       SASDE
Ameet Morjaria             Energy Economist - YP            SASDE



                                             28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY04                                        n/a                      170.62
                             Total:                                   170.62
Supervision/ICR
 FY05                                        31.17                    181.04
 FY06                                        32.88                    140.53
 FY07                                        57.25                    210.57
 FY08                                        39.87                    115.85
 FY09                                        16.34                     55.10
 FY10                                        27.82                     83.14
 FY11                                        41.49                    124.33
 FY12                                        37.32                    126.29
 FY13                                        26.67                    134.70
 FY14 (to August 31, 2013)                    2.20                     18.87
                             Total:         312.94                  1,190.42




                                          29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was carried out.



Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
No stakeholder workshop was carried out.




                                         30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s ICR is reproduced in full here.


I.     Introduction
This report was prepared by the Ministry of Energy and Water of the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan (MEW), the implementing agency for the Emergency Power Rehabilitation
Project (EPRP). The EPRP was composed of the following contracts:

     Status of EPRP Physical Components

           Contract No.                           Description               Contractor
     MEW 300/2                 Kabul Distribution Rehabilitation Project       KEC

     MEW 301                   Naghlu - Kabul 110 kV Transmission Line         KEC
                               Rehabilitation of Naghlu Hydro Power
     MEW 302                                                                   TPE
                               Station
     MEW/S-500 L1              Chimtala-Northern Kabul Transmission            KEC
                            Kabul North and NW Substation
     MEW/S-500 L2                                                           Safa Nicu
                            Reinforcement
     MEW Consultants F1-F12 International and Local Consultants               Various

     MEW/444A                  Reactive Power Project                          KEC

     MEW 257                   Project Management Support for MEW             SMEC

     MEW 228                   DABS Commercialization                         MVV

     MEW 1104                  Dasht-e-Barchi                               Angelique


The EPRP development credit agreement was signed on July 13, 2004. It was originally
a 4.5 year project with a closing date of January 31, 2009. However, this was extended
three times by a total of 50 months: In 2006, it was extended 20 months to September 30,
2010; in June 2010, it was extended 24 months to September 30, 2012; and in September
2012, it was extended a final six months to March 31, 2013. With the four-month grace
period for project close out, it would have ended July 31, 2013, but the grace period itself
was extended by two months, so the revised closing date is September 30, 2013.

The EPRP was funded from two sources: IDA credit 3933 and an Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) grant. The IDA credit was in the amount of 72.4
million SDR, which at the time of award on July 31, 2004 was equivalent to $105.0
million. The ARTF grant was for $20 million, so the total EPRP funding was $125
million at the time of award. Due to the appreciation of the SDR exchange rate, as of
August 30, 2013, the IDA credit was worth $109,706,272, so the total EPRP funding was
$129,706,272.


                                             31
Since the project is not closed as of the writing of this report, the final disbursement
amount is not yet known. However, as of the last quarterly IFR, total disbursements were
$128.8 million, 98% of total funding, so final disbursements will essentially equal the
total allocated funding.

II.    Objectives of the Project
The World Bank’s project development objective (PDO) stated in the Credit Agreement
for EPRP was the following: “The objective of the Project is to provide an improved and
more reliable supply of power to the people of Kabul.” The metric for measuring
achievement of the PDO was originally to increase urban access to power from 27% to
65%, but the metric was amended during the 2006 project realignment to the relative
measure of a 70% increase in grid-supplied power consumption in Kabul. In addition to
the PDO, the project also had a number of intermediate outcomes and performance
indicators, which were also revised during the 2006 project realignment. The EPRP
objective, outcomes, and indicators are summarized in the following table:

                EPRP Objective, Outcomes, and Indicators (Revised)

                            Outcome                            Indicator
                PDO:
                To provide an improved and           70% increase in grid-supplied
                more reliable power supply to        power consumption in Kabul
                the people of Kabul
                Intermediate Outcome 1:
                Main hydropower generation           100 MW of hydropower
                facility and its transmission line   capacity rehabilitated
                are rehabilitated
                Intermediate Outcome 2:
                Upgrading and constructing the       (1) 11 km of 110 kV line
                critical transmission and            constructed and two
                distribution infrastructure to       substations upgraded
                enable power supply from             (2) MV backbone distribution
                neighboring countries                system in Kabul is upgraded
                Intermediate Outcome 3:
                Developing the institutional         DABM is corporatized
                capacity of DABM to initiate         according to commercial
                improved commercial operations       operations


The following were the main components of the project:

              A. Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks in Kabul. Provide a partial
                 rehabilitation of the Kabul distribution network, with a focus on the
                 MV distribution backbone. The scope of this component was reduced
                 in 2006 to exclude “expansion,” although some expansion work was
                 still included.


                                                32
              B. Rehabilitation of Naghlu Hydro Power Station. Refurbish all four
                 turbines and 25 MW generators, including all hydro-mechanical and
                 protection and equipment.
              C. Rehabilitation of 110 kV Transmission Line from Naghlu to the Kabul
                 East Substation and Kabul North Substation.               Refurbish the
                 approximately 54 km transmission line, including replacing conductor
                 and towers as necessary.
              D. Technical Support for Project Management and Technical
                 Implementation. During the 2006 restructuring, the scope of this
                 component was realigned from supporting MEW’s internal planning
                 and implementation processes to hiring an outside project management
                 firm to manage all project implementation.
              E. Commercialization of DABM. Provide technical assistance to prepare
                 DABM for commercialization and support the transition to DABS
                 with technical support and capacity building. Recruit and maintain the
                 management team for two years.
              F. Technical Assistance for Ministry of Energy and Water and DABM.
                 Provide general technical assistance, including to prepare and
                 implement a public relations campaign.
              G. Construction of Part of Northern Transmission System. Construct 110
                 kV transmission line from Chimtala Substation approximately 11 km
                 north of Kabul to Kabul transmission grid and expand Northwest
                 Kabul and North Kabul substations to allow Kabul to receive power
                 imported over 220 kV NEPS line. This component was added in 2006,
                 after it became clear that the NEPS line was likely to be completed.

As seen in the following section, adding this final component (and successfully
implementing it) was the single most important factor in the EPRP’s success. Without it,
the PDO could not have been achieved and the economic benefit of the EPRP would have
been less than half of what it is estimated to have been (although still significantly
positive).

III. Assessment of Outcome
       Achievement of the Objectives
EPRP significantly exceeded its PDO. The objective was to provide an improved and
more reliable power supply to the people of Kabul. The indicator for this objective was a
70% increase in grid-supplied power consumption in Kabul. From 2006, when the
revised PDO indicator was stated, to 2011, the last full year for which reliable data is
available, grid-connected power consumption in Kabul nearly tripled (increased by
188%)—an increase over 2.5 times the PDO indicator. The increase in Kabul’s
electricity consumption is seen in the following graph:




                                           33
                               Grid‐Connected Electricity Consumpion in Kabul
                   1,800,000

                   1,600,000

                   1,400,000

                   1,200,000
                                                   PDO Indicator Level
                   1,000,000                    (70% increase from 2006)
             MWh


                    800,000

                    600,000

                    400,000

                    200,000

                          ‐
                                            2006                                  2011
            Source: Afghan Energy Information Center. Unfortunately, due to funding constraints, 2011 is
            the last year for which the AEIC has complete and reliable data.


While there were a number of other energy infrastructure development projects going on
in Kabul over the same time period, this increase is essentially entirely attributable to the
1 million MWh of imported NEPS power supplied to Kabul through the transmission line
from Chimtala Substation and the additional transformers installed at Northwest
Substation and North Substation. Without these key components from the EPRP, Kabul
would not have been able to benefit from the power imported from Uzbekistan over the
NEPS line.

EPRP also generally achieved its Intermediate Outcomes. As noted above, the successful
completion of the transmission and distribution rehabilitation and expansion
(Intermediate Outcome 2) was instrumental in providing Kabul access to the significant
additional power imported over the NEPS line. Also, while the indicator was vague, the
corporatization of DABM (Intermediate Outcome 3) was achieved when DABS was
formally transitioned into DABS in September 2009. The one shortcoming was
Intermediate Outcome 1, the rehabilitation of 100 MW of hydropower capacity.
Achievement of this outcome required the rehabilitation of all four 25 MW turbines at
Naghlu. The contractor completed work on three of the units (Units 4, 3, and 2), but the
work on Unit 1 was not completed because the turbine shaft was found to be bent, and
there was not time to ship, repair, and re-install the shaft before the expiry of EPRP.
While this work will be completed under a separate World Bank funding mechanism, the
performance assessment is that only 75% (75 MW) of this intermediate outcome
indicator was achieved under EPRP. A summary of the achievements of the performance
indicators is seen in the following table:




                                                         34
EPRP Achievement of Performance Indicators

                 Outcome                      Indicator                Achievements              Assessment
        PDO:                                                       Consumption increased
        To provide an improved and       70% increase in            from 538 GWh in 2006         Significantly
        more reliable power supply to    grid-supplied power        to 1,547 GWh in 2011,         Exceeded
        the people of Kabul              consumption in             an increase of 188%.          Objective
                                         Kabul
        Intermediate Outcome 1:                                    Rehabilitated Units 4, 3,
        Main hydropower generation       100 MW of                  and 2 for a total of 75
        facility and its transmission    hydropower capacity        MW. Unit 1 requires
        line are rehabilitated           rehabilitated              shaft repair that could     Achieved 75% of
                                                                    not be completed during          Goal
                                                                    project period.

        Intermediate Outcome 2:                                    Constructed or
        Upgrading and constructing       (1) 11 km of 110 kV        rehabilitated 16.8 route
        the critical transmission and    line constructed and       km (23.6 circuit km) of
        distribution infrastructure to   two substations            110 kV line from
        enable power supply from         upgraded                   Chimtala Substation to
        neighboring countries            (2) MV backbone            NW Substation, North
                                         distribution system in     Substation, and to
                                         Kabul is upgraded          interconnection with East
                                                                    Substation.
                                                                   Expanded both NW
                                                                    Substation and North
                                                                    Substation with 2 x 40      Exceeded Goal
                                                                    MVA transformers (total
                                                                    = 160 MVA).
                                                                   Installed 54 km of MV
                                                                    underground cable
                                                                   Rehabilitated/expanded
                                                                    334 km of MV overhead
                                                                    distribution lines.
                                                                   Installed 59 distribution
                                                                    transformers

        Intermediate Outcome 3:                                    DABM was formally
        Developing the institutional     DABM is corporatized       corporatized as DABS in
        capacity of DABM to initiate     according to               September 2009.
        improved commercial              commercial operations                                   Achieved Goal
        operations



       Implementation Status of the Physical Components
The status of the works of the component contracts is summarized in the following table:




                                                  35
      Status of EPRP Physical Components

        Contract No.                     Description                   Contractor    Consultant*         Status
      MEW 300/2         Kabul Distribution Rehabilitation Project         KEC           GFA           Completed 1

      MEW 301           Naghlu - Kabul 110 kV Transmission Line           KEC          SMEC           Completed
                        Rehabilitation of Naghlu Hydro Power
      MEW 302                                                             TPE           GFA           Completed 2
                        Station
      MEW/S-500 L1      Chimtala-Northern Kabul Transmission              KEC           GFA           Completed 3
                        Kabul North and NW Substation
      MEW/S-500 L2                                                     Safa Nicu        GFA           Completed 3
                        Reinforcement
      MEW/444A          Reactive Power Project                            KEC          SMEC           Completed

      MEW 1104          Dasht-e-Barchi                                 Angelique       SMEC           Completed 4


      *SMEC was original PMF for all contracts. GFA assumed the PMF role on indicated projects in January
      2012 under contract MEW 257b-SSS implemented under the Afghanistan Power System Development
      Project (APSDP).
      (1) Assets in service and operational acceptance issued, but significant number of corrective action reports
      (CARs) outstanding.
      (2) Operational acceptance for Units 4, 3, 2. Unit 1 requires repair of shaft, which will be funded under a new
      project.
      (3) Work completed and asset in service, but operational acceptance still outstanding.
      (4) MEW-funded project. World Bank role limited to partial retroactive funding. Bank funding required
      inventory verification, which was completed.


There were, however, significant delays in the implementation of all project components,
including delays in executing the contracts and performing the work. For executing
contracts, the average period between MEW receiving bids to signing a contract was 190
days. The fastest turn around was 81 days and the worst was 478 days (nearly 16
months). The average period between contract signing and contract effectiveness was
155 days. These delays were caused by the multiple steps required to make the contract
effective, including securing bank guarantees, navigating the internal processes between
MEW and MoF, making the advance payment, issuing the letter of credit (LC), and
finally getting the special commitment (SC) letter from the World Bank. The times
required to sign and make effective each contract are illustrated below:




                                                           36
                            EPRP Contract Signing and Effec veness

          MEW 300/2

            MEW 301

            MEW 302

        MEW/S‐500 L1

        MEW/S‐500 L2

          MEW/444A

                        0        100           200              300          400          500             600      700
                                                                      Days


                             Bid Received to Contract Signing         Contract Signing to Effec veness

The EPRP implementation delays ranged from significant to enormous. The most on-
time project, the Naghlu to Kabul 110 kV transmission line, still took 129 days (43%)
longer than expected. The worst-delayed project was the Chimtala to Northern Kabul
110 kV transmission line, which was delayed by over 1,300 days and took nearly 2.5
times longer to completed than expected. The second-most delayed project was the
Naghlu rehabilitation, which has already taken twice as long as expected and isn’t even
completed yet (the completion date is constrained to the expiry of the EPRP grant). The
reasons for the delays included revisions of scope, delays in equipment, complications in
installation, security and logistics issues, and in some cases simply poor performance of
the contractor. With all of this, the average time of actual completion was over twice
(112%) the original contractual time for completion. The original and actual completion
times for each of the EPRP installation contracts are illustrated below:


                                       EPRP Implementa on Delays

           MEW 300/2

             MEW 301

             MEW 302

         MEW/S‐500 L1

         MEW/S‐500 L2

            MEW/444A

                        ‐              500               1,000                1,500               2,000         2,500
                                                                      Days


                                   Original Time for Comple on          Addi onal Time Required



All of the relevant contractual and performance dates are seen in the following table:



                                                                37
Original and Actual Completion Dates of EPRP Physical Components
                                                                                           Original                                     Actual                   Total
                                                                                           Time for     Contractual      Actual       Completion               Elapsed
                                                             Contract        Contract     Completion    Completion     Completion        Time    Percentage      Time
 Contract No.          Description         Bids Received      Signed        Effective*      (Days)        Date           Date**         (Days)    Delayed       (Days)
             Kabul Distribution
MEW 300/2
             Rehabilitation Project         Jan 30, 2007   Apr 21, 2007    Jun 20, 2007          700   May 20, 2009    Jul 31, 2011        1,502       115%      1,643
             Naghlu - Kabul 110 kV
MEW 301
             Transmission Line             Dec 12, 2004    Aug 10, 2005    Aug 3, 2006           300   May 30, 2007    Oct 6, 2007          429         43%      1,028
             Rehabilitation of Naghlu
MEW 302
             Hydro Power Station            May 9, 2005    Aug 30, 2006    Dec 28, 2006        1,200   Apr 11, 2010   Mar 31, 2013         2,285        90%      2,883
             Chimtala-Northern Kabul
MEW/S-500 L1
             Transmission                   Jan 28, 2007   Apr 19, 2007    Jun 19, 2007          555   Dec 25, 2008    Jul 31, 2012        1,869       237%      2,011
             Kabul North and NW
MEW/S-500 L2
             Substation Reinforcement      Jan 28, 2007    Apr 26, 2007    May 15, 2007          555   Nov 20, 2008   Dec 25, 2009           955        72%      1,062
MEW/444A     Reactive Power Project        Apr 10, 2006    Sep 30, 2006    Aug 6, 2007           730   Aug 5, 2009    Sep 30, 2011         1,516       108%      1,999

*Contract is effective upon issuance of special commitment (SC) letter from World Bank.
**Date of operational acceptance for MEW 300/2 and MEW 444A. Date of completion certificate for MEW 301, MEWS-500 Lot 1 and Lot 2, which still do not have operational
acceptance. Date of EPRP grant expiry for MEW 302, which will be completed under separate World Bank funding.



            Economic Viability
The EPRP provided significant economic benefit to the people of Afghanistan. The
EPRP was broadly divided into two sub-projects, the Naghlu Rehabilitation and
Transmission sub-project and the Kabul Transmission, Substation, and Distribution
Rehabilitation sub-project. The costs and economic benefit of the EPRP sub-projects are
summarized in the following table:

Summary of EPRP Economic Benefits

                         Sub-Project                                                             Cost*     Estimated NPV**                         IRR
Naghlu Rehabilitation and Transmission                                                          39,637,148      405,625,317                          118%
Kabul Transmission, Substation, and Distribution Rehabilitation                                 74,136,246      334,549,765                           81%

*Based on sub-project cost elements. Cost does not include all EPRP costs, including consultant services,
institutional development, and taxes.
**Based on 12% discount rate and assumptions outlined in Sub-Project Completion Report. Due to some
overlap in scope, including some minor elements from the Kabul Aybak Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project
(KAMPP), agregating the economic benefits of these sub-projects may result in double-counting.


The following two subsections provide a summary of the economic assessment of the
sub-projects. A complete summary can be found in the relevant sub-project completion
reports (SCRs) prepared for MEW by the PMF.
            Naghlu Rehabilitation and Transmission
The benefits of the Naghlu Rehabilitation and Transmission sub-project are estimated
based on the avoided costs of the next least-cost alternative to achieve the project’s
objective. The objective of the project was to maintain 100 MW of hydro generation
capacity to serve Kabul. Without the project, the aging Naghlu plant would have
continued to deteriorate and the transmission line to Kabul would have failed. When the
project started in 2005, it was estimated that Naghlu would no longer be able to supply
power to Kabul within 3-5 years, and since at the time Naghlu represented about 45% of
the capacity serving Kabul, this was recognized as a serious problem.

Therefore, given the lack of available generation, the only viable alternative to
rehabilitating Naghlu would have been to construct a diesel plant to supply the same
amount of power to Kabul. The avoided cost of this alternative is based on the cost of the


                                                                             38
100 MW Tarakhil plant, which USAID actually funded and constructed just east of Kabul
shortly after the Naghlu project started.
Based on even these conservative assumptions, the net economic benefit of the Naghlu
project is staggering. The results are summarized in the following table:

                    Summary of Economic Benefit of Naghlu Sub-Project

                    Cost of Naghlu Project (Net of Tax)      39,637,148

                    Avoided Cost of Alternative
                    --75 MW Diesel Plant in Kabul           131,250,000
                    --Annual Fuel Cost (for 17 Years)        76,733,846

                    Net Present Value (@12%) =             $405,625,317
                    IRR =                                         118%


       Kabul Transmission, Substation, and Distribution Rehabilitation
The primary quantifiable impact of the project was increasing the capacity of the Kabul
Northwest and Kabul North substations by 160 MVA (128 MV), which more than
doubled the capacity of the substations and increased Kabul’s total substation capacity by
50%.

Quantifying the project’s benefits is difficult, but it is at least reasonable to credit the
project with enabling the shutting down of the NW Kabul diesel plant. This is because
without the project’s upgrades of the transmission lines from Chimtala (the end of the
NEPS 220 kV line) and the expansions of the Kabul Northwest and Kabul North
substations (the substations fed by the NW Kabul diesel plant), the cheap and reliable
power from NEPS would not have been able to replace the expensive and unreliable
power from NW Kabul. Also, since the NEPS power is not synchronized with the rest of
the grid, the power is always isolated—generally fully loading the Kabul Northwest
substation and at least partially loading (on a segregated bus) the Kabul North substation.
Therefore, the impact of the NEPS power made available by the sub-project can be
distinguished from other projects being implemented at the same time in Kabul.

However, even assuming that the project benefits are limited to just displacing the 44
MW of generation from NW Kabul diesel plant, the value of this benefit is significant. In
2006, prior to project, NW Kabul produced 124,000 MWh, 23% of Kabul’s total
generation. Unfortunately, despite renovations, the plant was just 18% efficient (heat rate
of 18,500 Btu/kWh), which meant that it consumed diesel at the unseemly rate of 500
liters per MWh. At current fuel prices of $1.09 per liter, this amounts to a fuel cost of
generation of 54.5 cents per kWh, and an annual fuel cost of about $67 million.
Assuming that the sub-project displaced just this fuel cost in flat real terms for twenty
years, the benefits are significant and summarized in the following table:




                                               39
                  Summary of Economic Benefit of Kabul Sub-Project
                  (Based on Avoided Cost of NW Kabul Diesel Generation)

                                                    Units          Value
                  Cost of Project                USD               74,136,246
                  Generation                     MWh                  123,779
                  NW Kabul Efficiency            Liters/MWh               500
                  Annual Fuel Consumption        Liters            61,889,500
                  Price of Fuel                  Afs/Liter                 60
                                                 USD/Liter               1.09
                  Annual Cost of Fuel            USD               67,515,818
                  Fuel Cost of Generation        Cents/kWh               54.5
                  Price of NEPS Power            Cents/kWh                 6.0
                  Cost of NEPS Power             USD                7,426,740
                  Net Avoided Cost of Generation USD               60,089,078

                  NPV (@12%) =                                    334,549,765
                  IRR =                                                   81%

       Environmental and Social Aspects
       Environmental
       The project did not have any appreciable negative environmental impact. The
       substation expansions were on land already used by the existing substations, so the
       total footprint was not expanded. The transmission line and distribution system
       portion of the project only rehabilitated existing lines or used existing rights of way.
       In fact, to the extent that the rehabilitated lines reduced line losses and allowed for the
       more efficient transmission of electricity, they effectively reduced the system’s
       environmental impact. Also, since as noted in the original contract, the existing lines
       were dangerous and likely to kill someone, the rehabilitation work mitigated that
       potentially significant impact.

       In fact, to the extent that the rehabilitation of the Naghlu Hydropower Plant and the
       delivery of imported power (generated primarily by natural gas in Uzbekistan)
       displaced inefficient diesel generation, it actually had a net environmental benefit.
       The avoided diesel consumption from rehabilitating Naghlu (as opposed to replacing
       that capacity with diesel) was about 70 million liters per year, while the NEPS
       imports allowed the shutdown of the extremely inefficient NW Kabul diesel plant,
       which was consuming some 62 million liters per year. In addition, the improved
       access and reliability of electricity in Kabul allowed for a significant reduction in the
       use of personal generators, which were estimated to have a collective capacity of over
       100 MW in Kabul between 2006-2008.
       Social Impact
There were no land acquisition or resettlement plans prepared by the EPRP contractors.
However, with one noted exception, the contracts did not require any land acquisition or
resettlement, since all work was done on lands already used by DABS (the national
utility). The substation expansions were on land already dedicated to the existing
substations, and the transmission line and distribution system rehabilitation was work on
existing lines using existing rights of way (ROW).


                                              40
The one noted exception was contract MEW/S-500 Lot 1, where a new ROW needed to
be secured for the 110 kV transmission line near the Kabul International Airport due to
illegal encroachment on the originally-planned route. The PMF proposed two alternative
routes to MEW, DABS, and the Kabul municipality. The approval process was
extremely protracted, but the stakeholders eventually approved the route recommended
by the PMF. The previous use of the land required for the ROW was an informal refuse
dump, so the only impact was that the land was cleaned up for the project (although this
proved to be a temporary measure).

       Technical Assistance
There was a broad range of technical assistance funded under EPRP. A summary is seen
in the following table:

         Summary of EPRP Technical Assistance Components

           Contract No./
           Component                       Description                  Consultant
            MEW 257        Project Management Support for MEW            SMEC
            MEW 228        DABS Commercialization                         MVV
              F1           Sr. Advisor to MEW                           A. Werner
              F2           Sr. Advisor to MEW                           A. Werner
              F3           Financial Advisor to MEW                    N. Hansford
              F4           Scanning Services--Naghlu Power Station    Beller Consult
              F5           MEW 256: Bid Evaluation Report for Naghlu    Lahmeyer
                           DFSU 211/Con2: MEW Program
               F6                                                       DECON
                           Implementation Support Unit (PISU)
                           MEW 327: Supervision Naghlu HPP
               F7                                                        Fichtner
                           Rehabilitation
                           MEW 362: Legal Services for Power Purchase
               F8                                                       LeBoeuf
                           Agreements
                           MEW 439: Consulting Services for
               F9                                                      Power Grid
                           Procurement and Installation of OPGW
                           MEW 446: Consulting Services for Reactive
               F10                                                     Power Grid
                           Power Control
                           MEW/S-501: Aybak Substation and Mazar-e-
               F11                                                     Power Grid
                           Sharif Extension Procurement
                                                                        Budget &
                                                                        Financial
               F12         TA for Procurement, Project Management
                                                                      Mgmt. Unit of
                                                                          MEW

However, the technical assistance provided under EPRP produced limited and mixed
results. The components were fragmented, they were not well integrated into the project
or the needs of MEW, and the quality of the advisors was not consistently satisfactory.
One noted exception was the Project Management Support for MEW, which was the
project management firm (PMF). This was an important component of the 2006
restructuring, which replaced the internal program implementation support unit (PISU)


                                              41
with the external consulting firm. Although there were still some issues with the
consistency of the supervision and support provided by the PMF, it was a significant
improvement over the previous technical assistance.

       Project Sustainability
While the EPRP clearly provided significant benefits to the people of Afghanistan, there
are serious questions about the sustainability of the projects implemented under EPRP.
Key issues affecting sustainability include the following:

              Some of the equipment installed was of poor quality. There were
               particular issues with the concrete poles and distribution transformers
               installed in Kabul. There is an open question, which is still under
               investigation, regarding whether the poles installed under MEW 300/2 (as
               well as MEW 300/3, which was part of KAMPP) are too thin to meet the
               contract specification. A number of the transformers installed failed, and
               while this was initially blamed by the contractor on overloading,
               inspections by the PMF confirmed that there were in fact significant
               defects in the manufacture and installation of the transformers.
              The installation work of the contractors was not consistently acceptable,
               especially for the distribution work in Kabul. For example, the PMF
               issued the contractor for the Kabul MV distribution project (contract
               MEW 300/2) 1,389 corrective action reports (CARs) to address defects in
               their work, but they never responded.
              The operation and maintenance training during the projects was often
               inadequate. While O&M training was generally included in the
               contractor’s scope of work, there was no standard of quality or
               competence specified. As a result, training hours were delivered, but not
               necessarily to the appropriate local staff or in an effective manner (e.g., in
               a language understood by the participant).
              The installation contracts included provision of spare parts and equipment,
               but the lists were incomplete and the quantities often inadequate. This,
               coupled with the lack of comprehensive O&M training, will mean that the
               assets installed or rehabilitated under the project will fall into disrepair
               much faster than necessary.

Some of these issues may be resolved during the warranty period, but it must be
acknowledged that the systems installed, particularly the distribution system, were not
implemented with a focus on quality, longevity, or sustainability.

IV. Performance Assessment
       Bank Performance
       MEW is satisfied with the World Bank’s performance. Following an initial very
       slow start in 2004, which MEW recognizes was primarily due to poor project
       execution by MEW and the Government, MEW appreciated the Bank’s willingness
       to work with us to restructure and refine the project in 2006. In addition to refining


                                            42
       the project’s scope to more closely align project components to performance
       objectives, the restructuring resulted in two key administrative improvements to the
       project:

             A memorandum of understanding (MOU) between MEW and the Ministry of
              Finance (MoF) that detailed a streamlined process for procurement and
              payment. This created the procedures that allowed the project to be
              successfully implemented.
             Establishing an outside consultant to serve as the project management firm
              (PMF). MEW’s internal project implementation unit lacked the capacity to
              successfully implement such a large and complex project. The PMF provided
              the necessary technical and project management expertise required to
              successfully implement the project.

       One shortcoming in the Bank’s performance was that the task team leader (TTL) was
       not initially based in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, trying to manage the challenges
       and complications of this project remotely did not work well. The situation improved
       when a resident TTL was assigned in 2007, although there was still a period between
       2010 and 2011 when there was no resident TTL. Also, while the PMF was essential
       in implementing the project, this improve efficiency was at the expense of much-
       needed institutional capacity building within MEW. It would have improved the
       sustainability of the project to provide additional capacity building at MEW and
       DABS that was not directly linked to (and therefore prone to compromise and delay)
       project implementation.

       Borrower Performance
       As the implementing agency, MEW is satisfied with our performance and that of the
       Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in implementing the EPRP. As
       noted above, MEW recognizes that our initial performance as borrower was deficient
       and was the primary contributing factor to the project’s unsatisfactory performance
       between 2004 and 2006. However, following the project restructuring in late 2006,
       our implementation of the MOU and engagement of the PMF turned the project
       around and significantly contributed to its success.

       In reviewing and evaluating our own performance implementing EPRP, MEW
       recognizes that it needs to continue to improve in the following two areas:

             Facilitating coordination among the various Afghan institutional stakeholders,
              including MEW, MoF, and DABS.
             Project management and technical expertise.

The challenge during the project implementation was that the roles of MEW and DABS
evolved significantly. Until September 2009, Da Afghanistan Breshna Mossesa (DABM)
was essentially a department within MEW, but after this, DABM became the
commercialized state utility Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS)—a transition that
was supported by the World Bank as part of the EPRP. Prior to the transition, MEW was
the asset owner and DABM was the operator, so the coordination could generally be
managed by directive. After the transition, DABS became both the asset owner and


                                           43
operator, which made MEW’s role as implementing agency significantly more
complicated. While MEW’s responsibilities as implementing agency didn’t change, our
authority and autonomy to unilaterally fulfill our role was diminished. Since most of the
EPRP projects started before this transition, the projects were based on implementation
plans that were incompatible with the new institutional organizational structure.

MEW’s project management and technical capacity are also in need of continuous
improvement. MEW has many dedicated and capable staff working very hard to improve
the energy infrastructure of Afghanistan. However, in order for the energy infrastructure
investments of the World Bank and other donors to provide a sustainable benefit to the
people of Afghanistan, the staffs of MEW and DABS need significantly more capacity
building to improve technical expertise and overall project management ability.

V.     Key Lessons Learned
       There were a significant number of lessons learned during the EPRP. The following
       subsections outline the project-specific lessons learned during the Naghlu
       rehabilitation and the Kabul transmission system expansion. The third subsection
       highlights some recommended areas of improvement in the general contracting
       procedures, along with some suggestions on how the identified problems might be
       mitigated.

       Naghlu Rehabilitation
There were numerous complications and delays with the Naghlu sub-project. Key
lessons learned include the following:

          The significant delays caused by the bent shaft in Unit 3 could have been
           reduced. The vibration in Unit 3 was noted in the contract, but there was no
           investigation as to the cause. The bent shaft was therefore only discovered
           after the rehabilitation of the unit, which then required the shaft from Unit 2 to
           be installed in Unit 3, the shaft from Unit 1 to be installed in Unit 2, and the
           repairs on Unit 1 to be delayed until the Unit 3 shaft can be shipped to Russia,
           repaired, and installed in Unit 1. If the contractor had properly investigated
           the vibration and identified the bent shaft as the cause, the rehabilitation of
           Unit 3 could have been postponed to the last unit while the shaft was sent for
           repair, thereby reducing multiple delays caused by all of the shaft shifting.
          The damage to the Unit 2 stator could have been avoided. Per the contract,
           procurement should have been done individually by unit. However, the
           contractor procured all of the equipment at the beginning of the contract,
           which while it may have saved some cost at the beginning (to the contractor’s
           benefit, not the client’s), it also resulted in equipment sitting around for six
           years. This would have been excessive even under ideal conditions, but at
           Naghlu it meant that equipment was stored outside exposed to the elements
           and spray from the dam. As a result, when the Unit 2 stator was installed and
           tested, it failed due to excessive moisture. This resulted in significant delays
           for repairs.



                                            44
          The spare parts specified in the contract were insufficient, incorrect, and
           didn’t relate to O&M requirements.
          The design phase of the project was not managed properly. Several
           complications and delays could have been avoided or reduced if there had
           been proper review and planning. As it was, the contractor’s design and plan
           were not reviewed by the project manager.
          The protection and control equipment selected by the contractor is too
           sophisticated and sensitive for the operating environment. It causes the units
           to trip over minor faults and is unnecessarily complicated for the plant staff to
           operate, which results in them overriding or bypassing the system to the
           potential detriment of the plant.
          The ancillaries were not defined in the contract, which resulted in disputes
           between the client and contractor over the extent of the required work.
          The deliverable for training was not defined. There were no effective
           benchmarks or results specified, so while plant operators were sent to India
           for a training course, the contractor was not required to ensure that the
           students were suitable for the training, that the training was appropriate to the
           requirements, or that any effective results were achieved. This will
           significantly affect the sustainability of the plant’s operation.

       Kabul
Key lessons learned from the sub-project include the following:

              There was a general lack of design review and planning by the consultant
               and client. This resulted in major changes to the scope of work throughout
               the project, which caused significant delays and implementation issues.
              The changes to the project scope were implemented with change orders
               and proposals rather than done properly with contract amendments. As a
               result, the impact on the budget, period of performance, and overall
               project implementation were never formally assessed or approved.
              The 110 kV transmission lines (MEW/S-500 Lot 1) were never
               commissioned properly. They were just informally put into service. As a
               result, an operational acceptance certificate was never issued.
              The Kabul Northwest and Kabul North substations (MEW/S-500 Lot 2)
               were never commissioned properly. The contractor self-commissioned the
               substations without approval or witnesses from the consultant, client, or
               DABS, so there was never any verification that it was done properly. As a
               result, an operational acceptance certificate was never issued.
              At the Kabul Northwest Substation, the transmission line contractor could
               not complete the downleads because DABS had not removed redundant
               circuit breakers as they were required to do. DABS engineers made a
               temporary patch connection, but it was not done according to the design
               and it was never fixed and done properly.
              There were significant problems with the quality and installation of the
               distribution transformers. Several transformers failed, and inspections


                                            45
         confirmed that there were significant manufacturing defects in the
         transformers.
        The consultant approved payment of price variation without the required
         contract amendment for contracts MEW 300/2, MEW/S-500 Lot 1, and
         MEW/S-500 Lot 2.
        Despite the transmission lines being handed over by DABS,
         encroachments along one section of the right of way caused delays. This
         issue should have been resolved by DABS, but since MEW and not DABS
         was the client, the coordination required to reach a solution took over ten
         months, significantly longer than should have been necessary.
        The spare parts and maintenance equipment was improperly specified in
         all of the contracts. The lists of required parts and equipment were
         incomplete, and in many cases, the quantities were insufficient. The
         equipment was also not handed over properly and the training was
         inadequate, which will significantly affect the sustainability of the project.
        Optical ground wire (OPGW) was installed on the transmission lines.
         Splicing and testing equipment was specified in the contract, but it was
         inexplicably removed by the PMF and contractor.
        There is a potential issue with the final distribution pole design approved
         under contracts MEW 300/2 (EPRP) and MEW 300/3 (KAMPP). The
         client has claimed that the design did not comply with the contract
         specification. The issue is under investigation through a separate contract.
        Installing meters and actually connecting customers was not included in
         the scope of work of any of the EPRP contracts. The failure to include
         connecting customers as part of the scope of work is a recurring theme
         among poorly-planned and implemented distribution projects, although in
         this case, this oversight was outweighed by the project’s ability to serve
         the significant pent-up demand of existing customers.

General Contractual Issues
The following table highlights some general contracting issues that arose during
implementation of EPRP. These are presented with some recommendations for
possible means to mitigate these issues in the future.

                     Issue                                   Possible Mitigation
Contractors front-end load major Supply-Install   Change terms of payment to have some
contracts leaving very little incentive to        material/equipment payments due only after
compete installation at site                      installation. Rear-end load payment conditions.
                                                  Prepare separate contracts for material and
                                                  equipment supply with LCB installation
                                                  contracts.
O&M training carried out by contractors was       Training should be a separate component under
not successful                                    Capacity Building, include needs assessment
                                                  and carried out by professionals.
While the Project Manager is required to          Introduce a Special Condition requiring
respond to contractor submissions within 14       Contractor response within a deadline.
days there is no time period for contractors’
responses.



                                            46
                      Issue                                      Possible Mitigation
Sanctions for Contractor non-performance              Should include the ability to withhold payment
clauses are limited in the GCC. Only notice of        of invoices during any period of default notice.
default followed by move to terminate is
available.
Contractors can ignore instructions to renew          GCC/SCC should allow withholding payment
Advance Payment or Performance Guarantees.            if BG’s not renewed.
Adequate sanctions not available in GCC.
Effective date is Advance Payment. Delay in           Make effectiveness when LC is effective (i.e.
LC has caused contract delays and claims.             SC)
Poor contract management by contractors.              Contract management processes should be
Claims for extensions of Time for Completion          systematised and available on the WB website.
not properly documented causing loss of
productive time for all parties in negotiating
claims.
Bid evaluation reports were required to be            More stringent selection criteria. More time to
completed in 21 days. As a result not enough          investigate and verify past performance claims.
time and effort was given to investigation and
verification of contractors past performance and
submitted documentation. Generally
documentation had to be taken at face value to
meet the BER timetable. Result being selection
of poorly performing contractors. (Lowest price,
minimum technically acceptable selection)
Advertised bids have not attracted a large field      Targeted advertising of bids in neighbouring
of good quality bidders. Partly due to the            countries. Road show to attract potential
“Afghanistan Factor” where some bidders do            bidders. Meet with commercial attaches of
not want to enter the Afghan market.                  Embassies.
GCC Clause 40 requires that the Employer and          The contractor can delay agreement thereby
Contractor agree on the extension of Time for         affecting the Employers ability to apply
Completion.                                           liquidated damages.
Contract management processes and procedures          Contract management processes should be
have differed due to changes in interpretation by     systematised and available on the WB website.
different stakeholders
Sanctions available for the Employer for poor         Consider withholding payment or part until
performance or non-performance by the                 performance is satisfactory.
contractor are limited or non-existent.
Contractors front-end load supply & Install           Rear-end load payment terms. Have LD’s
contracts so that there is little (or no) incentive   calculated on the total value of works that
to perform the installation portion on time or        cannot be put into commercial service.
with acceptable quality of work. Liquidated
damages, being applied to the value of
uncompleted work, have little impact.




                                             47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
There were no cofinanciers to this project except ARTF which is administered by IDA.




                                          48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Sector background – development strategies

-       Afghanistan National Development Framework, April 2002;
-       Bank Transitional Support Strategy, February 2003;
-       Power Sector Reform Roadmap, August 2003;
-       Power Sector Policy, August 2003;
-       Power Sector Master Plan October 2003;
-       “Securing Afghanistan’s future” and technical annex on power, January 2004;
-       Afghanistan National Development Strategy 2008-2013;
-       DABS customer database, June 2011;
-       Bank Interim Strategy Note, March 2012;
-       Bank’s strategy for improving the performance of the power portfolio, September
        2012;
-       Power Sector Master Plan – draft March 2013.

Preparation stage


-       Identification mission Aide Memoire, August 2003
-       Preparation Visit Aide Memoire – October/November 2003
-       Project Information Document (PID), concept and appraisal stage;
-       Project Concept Note (PCN), comments and minutes of review meeting;
-       Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (concept stage and published);
-       Pre appraisal/appraisal mission Aide Memoire, February 2004;
-       Technical Annex (comments, clearances and minutes to decision meeting);
-       TF Grant Agreement (comments and clearances);
-       Credit Agreement (comments and clearances);
-       Minutes of negotiations.

Implementation stage

Supervision

    -    Implementation & Statues Reports (ISRs) – Sequences 1 to 19;
    -    Supervision Missions Aide Memoires and Management Letters:
        - Project launch, August 2004
        - Implementation Review, November/December 2004;
        - Implementation Review, February 2005;
        - Implementation Review, May 2005;
        - Implementation Review, August 2005;
        - Implementation Review, November/December 2005;
        - Implementation Review, June 2006;
        - Implementation Review, January 2007;
        - Implementation Review, May 2007;
        - Mid Term Review, November 2007;
        - Implementation Review, April 30-May 07, 2008;


                                             49
    -    Implementation Review, November 11-17, 2008;
    -    Implementation Review, Mission December 14-24, 2009;
    -    Implementation Review, May 17-24, 2009;
    -    Implementation Review, August 2- 9, 2010;
    -    Implementation Review, December 2011;
    -    Implementation Review, May 31, 2012;
    -    Implementation Review, March 2013.

-   Final Quality at Entry Assessment, September 9, 2005

Amendments

-   2005: amendment to legal agreement dated July 21, 2005
-   2006: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and legal documents;
-   2008: amendment to legal agreement dated July 8, 2008
-   2010: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and legal documents;
-   2011: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and legal documents;
-   2012: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and legal documents.

Others

-   EIRP ICR, March 2007;
-   Memorandum of Understanding between MOF and MEW, November 2006 (and two
    subsequent amendments).




                                          50
                         60°E                                                           65°E                                                                                             70°E                                                                          75°E

                                                                                                         U Z B E K I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                              TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA J IK IS TA N

                                AFGHANISTAN                      TUR KM E N I STA N
                                                                                                   Jawzjan
                                                                                                                               Balkh                         Kunduz                                       Badakhshan
                                                                                                                                                                                 Takhar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                                                        Samangan                     Baghlan
                                                                                 Faryab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                     Saripul                                                                              jsh
                                                                                                                                                                                              ir           d
                                                                                                                                                                                      an           n
                 35°N                                                                                                                                                      H        iP                     Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35°N
                                                                       Badghis                                                                                                  Kapisa
                                     P                                                                                                                            Parwan
                                         a                                                                                     Bamyan
                                             r o                                                                                            Kabul Project Site                                Laghman          Kunar
                                                 p a                             e
                                                     m i s u s           R a n g                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                                                                       (for detail see IBRD...)      KABUL                      Naghlu Dam Project Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                (for detail see IBRD...)
                                                                                                                                                     Wardak                 Kabul                                                   PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nangarhar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INDIA
                                                 Herat                           Ghor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Khyber Pass
                                                                                                                                                                        Logar

                                                                                                     Day Kundi
                                                                                                                                                                           Paktia

                 ISLAMIC                                                                                                                Ghazni
                                                                                                                                                                                         Kowst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0       50         100   150 Kilometers
                 REPUBLIC
                 OF IRAN                                                                           Uruzgan                                                                                                             0             50          100 Miles

                                                         Farah                                                                                                Paktika

                                                                                                                       Zabul


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EMERGENCY POWER
                                                 Dasht-I Margo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REHABILITATION
                                                                     Hilmand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT (EPRP)
                                                Nimroz                                  Kandahar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Map 1: General Project Area
                 30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                       30°N                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
SEPTEMBER 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 40290
                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                             GSDPM               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  60°E                               PA KI S TA N                65°E
                                                                                                             Map Design Unit     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                               70°E
                                                 69°00’E                                               69°15'E
                                                                                                       69°1
                                                                                                       69°
                                                                                                       69°15
                                                                                                        9°15'E
                                                                                                        9°15
                                                                                                           1                           69°30'E
                                                                                                                                          3                             69°45'E
                                                                                                                                                                        69 4                                 70°00’E


                                    Par wan
                                                                                                                                                               Ka
                                                                                                                                                               K apisa
                                                                                                                                                    Tagab




                 34°45'N                                                                                                                                                                                                        34°45'N




                                                                              Chimtala
                                                                                                                                                      Naghlu
                                                                                                                                                                       H                            Laghman
                                                                                                       Tarakhil       (Pul-e-Charki)
                               Pagman                                                                                   MW Radio
                                                                                                                  G
                                           Kabul North West                                                                                  H
                                                                          T                                                                                                       H       Sarobi Hydro
                                                                                           Kabul East                                            Mahipar
                                                                      Kabul North
                                                                                                 KA
                                                                                                 KA¯ BU
                                                                                                     BUL
                                                                                                 KABUL
                 34°30'N                                                                                                                                                                                                        34°30'N


                                                                                                                      Botkhak
                                                                                                                                                                        69°45'E                              70°00’E
                 Wardak




                                                                                                                                                                                      AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                   EMERGENCY POWER
                                                                                                                                                               REHABILITATION PROJECT (EPRP)
                                                                                                                                                                             Map 2: Detailed Project Activities

                                                                                                                                                            Naghlu   PROJECT LOCATION                            POWER PLANT TYPE
                                                                                                                                                                     SUBSTATION VOLTAGE                  H         HYDROPOWER
                  0            5        10 Kilometers
                                                                                          Logar                                                                        220 kV
                                                                                                                                                                       110 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GEN SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THERMAL      34°15'N
                                                                                                                                                                     TRANSMISSION LINE VOLTAGE
                  0                 5              10 Miles
SEPTEMBER 2013




                                                                                                                                                                       220 kV                                    MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 40299
                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                    110 kV                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                  GSDPM             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                  Map Design Unit   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                       69°15'E                        69°30'E                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
