RESTRICTED
Report No. P-932
FILEU C;Z2
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 10, 1971



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIVIIySNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TME E2L;CUTITE DTRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEEVELOPMENT CERDIT
TO TIE SOi4ALI =rKOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recormmendation on a proposed
credit in an amount irn various currencies eauivalent to US$3.3 million
to the Somali Democratic Republic to assist in financing an education project.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.        On gaining independence in July 1960 Somalia faced a bleak
economic future. The economy was at a very early stage of development,
the resource base was poor, and the rnew Government inherited a large
recurrent deficit and a weak balance of payments. More daunting perhaps
was the task of building a new state out of the previous British Protectorate
in the North and the Italian Trust Territory, formerly colony, in the South.
Somalia has the rare asset of a population largely united by common ethnic
origin, the same spoken language, religion and culture.   On the other hand,
the colonial powers had introduced two separate languages (the Somali
language is still not written), legal systems and civil service procedures.
M.uch of the effort of Government during the first decade of independence
has had to be devoted to reconciling and adapting the best features of
these two systems into a new Somali pattern.
3.        The education systems in Somalia were very backward in 1960 and
education was one of the sectors in which unification presented particular
difficulties. DurIng the past decade, Somalia has made a major effort
to improve and expand its education within the constraints imposed by
financial stringency and the shortage of skilled personnel. However,
largely because of these constraints, Somalials educational facilities
are still extremely limited. Only a very small proportion (about 7%) of
the population of school age (7-18 years) can find places in school and
very few children go beyond elementary school. Standards are low and
few teachers are qualified. The Government is, howqever, under less
popular pressure than in many other African countries to expand education
rapidly since only a small proportion of the population is urbanized
and has thus been free to lay its plans carefully and take due account
of budgetary constraints. The Governmentts policy is to provide for only
a gradual expansion in the proportion of the relevant age groups attending
primary and secondary schools, to emphasize improving the quality of
education through an increase in the number of qualified teachers and more
equipment, and to provide industrial and agricultural training suited to
the needs of the country.



PART II - HISTORICAL
4.        Intith the assistance of a Unesco project preparation mission,
the Government drew up an education project, including technical assistance
for   project implementation, teacher training and curriculum development,
and requested the Association for financial support in April 1970. An
IDA/FAO mission appraised the proposed project in August/September 1970.
5.        Negotiations were held in lWashington from March 2-10, 1971.
The delegation was led by H.E. Ibrahim Megag Samater, Secretary of State
for Finance, and also included Mr. Abdinur, Director of Planning Depart-
ment, Ministry of Education.
6.        The following is a summary of IDA credits to Somalia as of
April 30, 1971.
Amount (US$ million)
No.     Year   Borrower  Purpose              Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
74-SO  1965   Somalia   Highway               _    6.20
123-SO 1968    Somalia   Highway               -    2.30      l.0c
s5-SO   1969   Somalia   Port of Mogadiscio    -    o.55      0.06
(Engineering and
Accounting Services)
Total                                        9.05      1.o6
7.      The 1965 and 1968 highway credits financed the construction of
the 200 km Afgoi-Baidoa Road, as part of a joint financing with the
European Development Fund (FED) and the UNDP.  A  FED grant of $4.85
million helped to finance construction and also provided for highway
maintenance equipment and offices for the Highway Department. The UNDP,
with the Bank as executing agency, provided $2.6 million for consulting
services, training for the Highway Department and transportation studies.
After substantial initial delays including the need to arrange additional
financing, construction started in fall 1968 and is now largely completed.
The training programs were also delayed but UNDP technical assistance,
which was initially scheduled to end in August 1970, has been extended
for three years.
8.      The detailed engineering studies for a new port of Mogadiscio
and modern accounting services for the Somali Port Authority (SPA) have
been substantially completed. The installation and effective operation
of the new accounting system were delayed by the changes in SPA management
following the 1970 change of Government and completing the appraisal of
the port construction project has had to be delayed until adequate
and up-to-date financial and traffic data are available.



-3-
9.      In addition to the port of i"icgadiscio project, which, it is hoped,
would be a joint financing operation with the FED, two other lending
proposals for Somalia are at various stages of consideration. They are
a road project in which the African Development Bank (ADD) is expected
to participate, and a livestock project which the Bank's Permanent Mission
in Eastern Africa is helping to prepare.
PART III - DESCRIPTION OF PRCJECT
10.     Borrower:               Somali Democratic Republic
Purpose:               To provide additional facilities for
teacher training, secondary education,
techni.cal education and agricultural
training, together xdith related technical
assistance.
amount:                Various currenci-es equivalent to US$3.3
million.
Amortization:          In 50 years including a 10-year period
of grace, through semn-annual instalLments
of 1/2 o-f l; fro.m June 1, 15o1 through
December 1, 1990 and 1-1/2%o from June 1,
1991 through December 1, 2020.
Service Charge:        3/4 of l.
PART IV - T1-:B PROJECT
11.     An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project
in Somalia" (PE-23a) dated May 7, 1971     is attached.
12.     The project consists of three paxts: (a) the construction,
furnishing and equipping of an extension to the National Teacher Edu-
cation Center, a new secondary school, extensions to ten secondary
schools and extensions to a technical school and a technical and commercial
school; (b) the provision and equipping of eight mobile units for farmer
training; and (c) technical assistance for project implementation, teacher
training and curriculum development.
13.     A Project UJnit would be responsible for project implementation.
This Unit would consist of a senior officer of the iMinistry of Education
as Project Director, a Deputy Project Director (for the day-to-day manage-
ment of this Unit), a Project Architect and a Procurement Officer. The
establishment of the Unit and the appointment of the Project Director,
Deputy Project Director and the Project Architect would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit.



14.      The Somali educational s:Tstem consists of three levels, elemen-
tary, intermediate and secondary, each of four years. Arabic is the
language of instruction in elementary schools, where English is taught
as a second language. English will also be the common medium of
instruction at intermediate and secondary levels, replacing Italian
where that is still in use. There are three public technical schools,
giving courses at post-intermediate level for surveyors, mechanics and
carpenters. An agricultural secondary school is being built and is
expected to be in full operation by 1974. The National Teacher Education
Center and the National University are the only post-secondary insti-
tutions in the country.
15.      Curricula are highly academic at all levels of education. Recently,
a major curriculum reform was initiated, whereby elementary and inter-
mediate education would become two cycles of primary education, and
secondary education would offer a diversified curriculum with practical
subjects.
16.      The Governmentts educational development plan envisages the
expansion of elementary and intermediate education, the improvement of
secondary education, the reforrn of the training methods of technical
education, the reorganization of administration, and the application of
cost saving techniques. The planned rate of expansion is based on
achieving enrollment targets for elementary, intermediate and secondary
(including technical) education for 1980-81 which would approximate the
supply estimated as needed to meet the man-power demand at that time.
17.      The proposed project is designed to improve the quality of edu-
cation, reduce wastage and achieve economies through consolidating
existing institutions. The project would provide Somalia with (i) its
only facilities for training teachers for elementary and intermediate
schools; (ii) the science laboratories, workshops, commercial and home
economics rooms, and libraries required for the new diversified second-
ary school curriculum; (iii) expanded and upgraded technical and
commercial education; and (iv) mobile units for training farmers in
improved methods of agriculture and livestock production.
18.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$3.7 million
equivalent. No import duties or import taxes are payable except on items
costing less than $1,000. The proposed credit of US$3.3 million equivalent
would cover all the estimated foreign exchange costs (US$2.6 million
equivalent) and approximately $700,000 equivalent of the local expendi-
tures. Thus, the Association would finance 90% of the project cost and
the Government the remainder. The justification for local expenditure
financing is discussed in paragraph 25 below.
19.      Civil works contracts would be awarded and equipment and furni-
ture procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. For
civil works, bids would be invited for groups of schools or for single
units to allow bidding by both foreign and Somali contractors in one single
unit or several units within the group. It is expected that local con-
tractors will obtain a substantial share of the contracts. Local suppliers
of furniture and equipment would be alloaed a 15% margin of preference.



- 5 -
PART V - LEGAL Y.ISTRMUh TS AND AUTHORITY
20.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Demo-
cratic Republic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
21.     The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms generally to the
pattern of recent agreements for education projects.
PART VI - THE EC ONOI~f
22.     A report entitled "Economic Development Prospects in Somalia"
(AE-10) was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 15, 1971.
A basic data sheet is attached.
23.     Somalia is one of the poorest countries in Africa, with a largely
undeveloped economy based almost wholly on agriculture, principally the
production of livestock. The potential for quick economic growth is
limited not only by the poor resource base of the country, but by the
technical and administrative capacity of government, the scarcity of good
development projects, and the shortage of public savings and adequate
funds to finance recurrent expenditures in support of development. Most
of the Somali people depend upon livestock and subsistence crop product-
ion for their livelihood, and income levels are very low. As a result
the monetary sector of the economy provides a market for only the most ele-
mentary types of industry, and offers few job opportunities for the
increasing numbers of young people seeking to escape the harsh
conditions under which the typical nomadic family lives.
24.     Although there is no immediate prospect of a dramatic improve-
ment in Somalia's economic position, the recent economic mission concluded
that there is potential for faster development in various sectors of the
economy, particularly agriculture.  To realize this potential, however,
the Government will need to concentrate its resources on only the most
promising development projects, and even then progress is likely to be
slow. In agriculture, a number of possibilities for growth have been
examined, but each one requires a period of study and careful project pre-
paration to ensure success. Similarly, in mining, several recent dis-
coveries offer hope of successful exploitation in the future, provided
feasible projects can be prepared, the necessary infrastructure can be
provided, and appropriate institutions built up. All these priorities
will need a continued flow of external financial assistance combined with
technical assistance in project preparation and project management. Over
the last ten years Somalia has received a high level of external aid, but
the experience has not always been happy or the aid particularly produ-
ctive. The new Government has placed great emphasis on the need for self-
help and is expected to be more cautious in its attitude to foreign
assistance.



25.      Faced since independence with a severe financial constraint,
Somalia has had to rely on exterral sources not ornly for the whole of
its development budget but also to finance a large part of its
recurrent budget. It is to Somalia's credit that much progress has
been made towards reducing budgetary deficits, and it now looks possible
that the Government will soon be able to eliminate its recurrent budget
deficit, provided the present tough and pragmatic policies are continued.
With a careful husbanding of its resources the Government should be able
to cover the increase in its recurrent expenditure arising from the
development program over the period 1971-75. However, Somalia will
still have to rely on external sources of capital to finance virtually
the whole of the capital costs, foreign and domestic, of its development.
In these circumstances, including local expenditure, which brings the
financing up to 90% of project cost, is considered justified.
PART VII - COIPLIANCE WITIH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VIII - RECOIP4ENDATION
27.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. MlcNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 10, 1971



Annex
SOMALIA
BASIC DATA
Currency and Exchange Rate:
The basic monetary unit is the Somali shilling, which is on a par with
the shillings used in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
Sh.l   = us$o.14
US$1   =  Sh.7.143
Area:
637,000 square kilometers (246,000 square miles)
Population:
1970 estimate               -            2.8 million
Rate of growth              -            approximately 2-1/2 percent
Population density          -            4.4 per square kilometer
Political Status:
Independent Republic since July 1960; associate member of the European
Economic Community; applicant for membership of the East African
Economic Community.
Gross Domestic Product and National Income:
There are no national accounts available for Somalia. Livestock and
subsistence crop production contribute the largest proportion of
national income. Per capita income is estimated to be between US$50-60.
Money and Credit:
Sh. Million            Rate of Growth
1963      1965      1969         1963-69
Total money supply       1979      191.5      273.4        5 7j2T
Domestic credit:
to Government        34.3      38.5      64.2        11    %
to Private Sector    90.9     177.9     233.9         17   %
Prices:
No comprehensive price indices are available for Somalia. The cost
of living index for Mogadishu, however, rose ten percent for the period
1966-1970.



-2-
Public Sector Operations:
Sh. Million
1963      1965      1969
Total government revenues                 150.5     177.4     272.3
Total goverrnment expenditures            201.6     218.6     289.1
Budget deficit                             51.2      41.2      16.8
Budget deficit as % of government
expenditures                             25.4%     18.8%      5.8
External Public Debt - (Incomplete Statement):
Debt outstanding December 31, 1968                  US$79.4 million
Debt service payments (1969)                        US$ 2.0 million
Debt service ratio (approximately)                        6 percent
Balance of Payments:
Sh. Million
1963      1965      1969
Merchandise exports                        199       240       242
Merchandise imports                        315       410       367
Net services                               -40       -414        0
Net transfers                              105       111        84
Balance on current account                  g       -103       7
Mar.
1963      1965      1969      1970
Foreign assets (net)            7l78       5.8      51-5      76
Concentration of Exports:
Percentage of Exports
1963        1969
Bananas                                      ;
Live animals and bddes and skdns              46          65
IMF Position:
US$ Million
Quota                                                   15.0
SDR's                                                    2.5
Drawings outstanding (February 1971)                     nil
External Assistance, 1960-1969:
US$ Million
Grants                                                 239.7
Loans                                                  147.9
Major Donors:
Multilateral:
US$ Million
UN                                        24.3
IDA                                        8.5
EBC                                       27.3



Major Donors:(Continued)
Bilat-eral:
US$ Million
Italy                                       112.4
U.S.A.                                       70.9
U.S.S.R.                                     53.1
Federal Republic of Germany                  29.2



