CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 247 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 3, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 247 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 3, 1971


﻿A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,         dated  June  3,   1971,    between   the   SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC       REPUBLIC      (hereinafter  called  the    Borrower)   and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, sub;--t, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement;
(b)   "School Design Unit" means the school design unit referred to in
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million three hundred thousand
dollars ($3,300,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part A and Part B (1) and (3) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than experts' services) to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   Before awarding contracts for extension of the educational institutions
included in Part A (1) (a) or Part A (1) (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that
such institutions will be adequately provided with technical assistance.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1981 and ending December 1, 2020, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1990, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purpc-es of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, educational
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpo,;e.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project:
(a)   the Borrower shall: (i) operate within its Ministry of Education a
Project Unit with such staff, duties and responsibilities as are specified in Schedule
4 to this Agreement or as may be further agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, under the authority of a qualified and experienced Project Director
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, who shall be responsible
directly to the Director General of said Ministry; and (ii) provide said Project Unit
with a full-time Deputy Project Director and a Project Architect, both to be
mutually acceptable to th3 Borrower and the Association, and with all such
supporting staff, facilities and other resources as shall be required for its efficient
operation; and
(b)   the Borrower shall: (i) institute and operate within its Ministry of
Public Works a School Design Unit under the authority of a qualified and
experienced full-time Architect directly responsible, in respect of the Project, to
the Project Director, with such staff, duties and responsibilities as are specified
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement or as may be further agreed between the Borrower
and the Association; and (ii) provide said School Design Unit with all such
supporting staff, facilities and other resources as shall be required for its efficient
operation.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Project Unit and the School Design
Unit, the Borrower shall employ, to the extent specified in paragraph I of Exhibit
B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, qualified and experienced experts mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, who shall be provided with qualified Somali
counterparts.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, in
order to assist the Borrower's Ministry of Education and the National Teacher
Education Center included in Part A (1) (a) of the Project in teacher training
and curriculum development, the Borrower shall employ, to the extent specified
in paragraph 2 of Exhibit B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and upon terms


﻿6
and conditions satisfactory to the Associal ion, qualified and experienced experts
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, who shall be provided
with qualified Somali counterparts.
Section 3.04. (a) Within six months of the date of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall select a site satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, for the extension of the Hodan secondary school referred to in
Exhibit A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly as needed take all requisite steps for
the acquisition and retention of all such lands, interests in land and properties
and all such rights, powers and privileges as may be necessary or proper for carrying
out the extensions to, and for the operation of, the educational institutions included
in the Project, and shall ensure that such lands will be available promptly as needed
for such purposes.
Section 3.05. In carrying out construction under Part A (1) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contracts, work schedules and
master lists of instructional equipment and furniture required for the Project, and
any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the


﻿7
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.08. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review:
(a)   the chart and timetable referred to in paragraph I (a) of Schedule
4 to this Agreement;
(b)   within one year of the date of the Development Credit Agreement,
(i) new curricula for secondary education, technical and commercial education and
elementary and intermediate teacher training, and (ii) a program for training
practical subject teachers in teaching techniques;
(c)   within two years of said date, a detailed plan of action for the training
of skilled workers, the establishment of a Technical Vocational Training Council
and the development of training standards, trade tests and a "tracer" system; and
(d)   within one year of the Effective Date, the Borrower's plan for carrying
out Part A (2) of the Project;
and shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on all of such documents.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Sect;on 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project
and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound
technical and administrative practices; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such maintenance, repairs
and renewals.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate the educational institutions and
the mobile training units included in the Project so as to promote the educational
objectives of the Borrower and shall provide such institutions and mobile training
units with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and its international balance of
payments position.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
instituted the Project Unit and has appointed its Director, its Deputy Director
and its Architect.
Section 8.02. The date September 1, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.07 (b) and
under Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the
Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadishu
Somalia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Adbullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil works and                1,300,000           85% of total ex-
locally procured                                   penditures
furniture and
equipment
1I.   Imported furniture             1,060,000           100% of foreign
and equipment                                      expenditures
III.  Technical assistance            590,000            100% of total ex-
and Project adminis-                               penditures
tration
IV.   Unallocated                     350,000
TOTAL         3,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.


﻿13
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 6 of this Schedule, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under contracts awarded over the Association's objection
or which shall materially differ, without the Association's concurrence, from the
terms and conditions on which bids shall have been invited; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    Amounts in Category IV     which may become no longer required for
contingencies, as determined by the Association from time to time, shall be


﻿14
allocated to Category I and if the ratio between the amount of the Credit allocated
to this Category and the estimate of payments for goods and services included
in such Category exceeds the percentage applicable to such Category, the
Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, increase such percentage to the
extent necessary to permit full withdrawal of the amount of the Credit or of an
amount equal to 90% of the then estimated cost of the Project, whichever is the
lower; provided, however, that such adjustment shall in no event result in
withdrawals on account of payment for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any
of its political subdivisions.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
(1)   Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   extension to the National Teacher Education Center;
(b)   one new secondary school;
(c)   extensions to ten secondary schools; and
(d)   extensions to one technical school and to one technical and commercial
school.
(2)   Provision and equipping of eight mobile training units for agricultural
education.
The specific educational institutions and the mobile training units included
in the Project shall be as specified in Exhibit A to this Schedule, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Part B:
(1)  Institution and operation of the Project Unit.
(2)   Institution and operation of the School Design Unit.
(3)   Provision of technical assistance as set forth in Exhibit B to this Schedule,
subject to modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1975,


﻿16
EXHIBIT A TO SCHEDULE 2
Educational Institutions and
Mobile Training Units
1. Educational Institutions
Student Places    Boarding Places       Staff Houses
Type and Name                         Addi-              Addi-              Addi-
of Institution       Location         tional     Total   tional    Total    tional      Total
(a)  Teacher
Training:
National Teacher
Education Center     Afgoi             400        700     260       560        5         27
(b)  Secondary
Education:
A-2*      Amoud      Borama             60       400        -       287        -          -
A-3*      Burao      Burao              80        340        -         -       -           -
A-4       Hargeisa
(Boys)    Hargeisa            40       360        -         -        -          -
A-5**     Hargeisa
(Girls)   Hargeisa              -      240        -        37        -          -
A-6       Hamar
Geb-Geb   Mogadishu          100       580        -          -       -          -
A-7***    Moalim
Jama      Mogadishu          600       600        -          -       -          -
A-8*      Hodan      Mogadishu         100        570       -          -       -           -
A-9*      Baidoa     Baidoa             40        340        -         -       -           -
A-10*     Belet
Wein      Belet Wein          40       360        -          -       -          -
A-11*     Gardo      Gardo              60        300       -       120        -           -
A-12*     Kismayo    Kismayo            60        340        -         -       -           -
Secondary Education
Sub-total                  1,180      4,430       -       444        -          -
(c)  Technical
and Commercial
Education:
B-1       Technical
and com-
mercial
school    Hargeisa              -      340        -          -       -          -
B-2       Technical
school    Mogadishu          110       320        -         -        -          -
Technical and Com-
mercial Education
Sub-total                    110       660        -          -       -          -
2. Mobile Trining Units
Number               Location
2 units              Western Region
2 units              Lower Juba
2 units              Upper Juba
2 units              Benadir
*    Complete re-furnishing
**   Furnishing and equipping only
*    Construction, furnishing and equipping of new school


﻿*                                                          17
EXHIBIT B TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
1.   Project Implementation
As advisor to the Project Director:
General Education Administrator              One for      4  man/years
As advisors to the School Design Unit:
Architect                              One for      3   man/years
Quantity Surveyor                      One for      3   man/years
TOTAL       10   man/years
2.   Educational Development
General Educator                             One for      2  man/years
Curriculum Development Expert                One for      1  man/year
Science Teaching Expert                      One for      2  man/years
Student-Teaching Practices Expert            One for      2  man/years
TOTAL        7   man/years


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works:
1.    Contractors slhall be pre-qualified in accordance with paragraph 1.3 of the
Guidelines.
2.    Before pre-qualification is invited, the Borrower shall inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of
pre-qualified contractors, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-qualification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified of their pre-qualification or of their exclusion and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, or deletions from, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.    The documents referred to in paragraph A3 above shall at least include the
following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out the Project,
indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable for award.
The contracts shall be grouped in such a way as to encourage international
competitive bidding;
(b)   description of the proposed international advertising coverage to ensure
international competitive bidding;
(c)   drafts of bidding documents, invitations to bid and contracts. The
invitations to bid shall, inter alia, specify that the bidder may submit bids in respect
of each educational institution included in the Project or of all of them, together
with related facilities, or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to be opened
simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to one contractor
one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or separate contracts
in respect of several such institutions and facilities to different contractors.


﻿19
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award as well
as the evidence required in Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement if not previously
submitted. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has
any objection to the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such
objection it may have.
6.    Promptly after a contract has been signed, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, a certified copy thereof shall be sent to the Association. The Borrower
shall request the Association's approval for any increase of more than ten per cent
(10%) or $25,000 equivalent, whichever is less, in the price of any contract.
B.    Contracts for Instructional Equipment, Books and Furniture:
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval, the following:
(a)   lists of all items of instructional equipment and furniture required for
the Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of
each item. Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding
the respective educational institution and the spaces for which they are required.
The items to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as
practicable, contracts for such items will be for not less than $ 10,000 equivalent.
Amendments to such lists which may be made from time to time shall also be
submitted to the Association for approval. Amendments to such lists not resulting
in price increases in excess of $1,000 equivalent for any one item or in excess
of ten per cent (10%) of the amount allocated to Category II of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement will
not require the Association's approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
description of the method to be used for obtaining bids on an international basis.
2.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit


﻿20
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to
the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have.
3.    Promptly after a contract has been signed, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, a certified copy thereof shall be sent to the Association.
C.    Contracts for the Mobile Training Units:
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. After obtaining the
Association's concurrence, the Borrower shall invite bids and the time interval
between the invitation to bid and bid submission, referred to in Section 3.1 of
the Guidelines, shall be not less than forty-five days.
2.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the said Project
Unit's recommendations for award, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to
the intended award, and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have.
3.    Promptly after a contract has been signed, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, a certified copy thereof shall be sent to the Association.
D.    Margin of Preference for Local Suppliers:
For the purpose of evaluating bids with respect to all contracts for furniture,
equipment and the mobile training units, bid prices shall be determined in
accordance with the following rules:
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for goods manufactured or processed


﻿21
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in the
territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net of any taxes on
their importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported  into   the  territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers, for
the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the preparation of a comprehensive Project chart based on the Critical
Path Method or other similar method, setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project shall be based;
(b)   the preparation of briefs for the architects of the School Design Unit
relating educational specifications to realistic costing and functional design, and
providing information to said Unit;
(c)   the request for review, and obtaining approval, by the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower, of plans, reports, specifications and other material
for the carrying out of the Project;
(d)   the review of architectural drawings to ensure that space provisions
and educational specifications are interpreted correctly so as to minimize changes
during construction and after acceptance and approval of bids;
(e)   the preparation of detailed reports on the evaluation and comparison
of bids received and the making of recommendations for the award of contracts
for which such bids shall have been received;
(f)   expediting of the award of contracts relating to the Project;
(g)   the preparation, with the help of appropriate agencies of the Borrower,
of lists of all instructional equipment, books and furniture required by the
educational institutions included in the Project, together with specifications and
the estimated unit price and total cost of each item;
(h)   ensuring that all instructional equipment, books and furniture meet
prescribed specifications;
(i)   the  preparation   and  administration, in   consultation  with  the
appropriate authorities of the Borrower, of the programs and activities of the
educational experts to be employed in carrying out Part B of the Project;


﻿23
(i)   the liaison, through the Project Director, with the Association and with
the appropriate authorities of the Borrower, including the School Design Unit, in
matters relating to the carrying out of the Project;
(k)   the maintenance of records and the furnishing of information under
Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement during the carrying out of the Project;
(1)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from     the Credit
Account; and
(m)   the evaluation of the progress of the Project and preparation of
quarterly progress reports to the Association.
2.    The following Project Unit members shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
(a)   Project Director: over-all guidance, coordination, supervision and
execution of the Project;
(b)   Deputy   Project Director: day-to-day    functions as described   in
paragraph (a) above and, in particular, preparation of educational briefs related
to design and performance standards for space, structure and environment for the
educational institutions included in the Project, coordination of preparation of basic
furniture and equipment lists for such institutions, and assistance in ensuring that
teachers of general and practical subjects will be available when such institutions
are ready for use;
(c)   Project Architect: preparation of architectural briefs for the School
Design Unit, evaluation of design, development of school building standards and
of a maintenance scheme for the educational institutions included in the Project;
and
(d)   Procurement Officer: coordination of selection, procurement and
installation of furniture and equipment for the Project.
3.    In addition to the necessary supporting staff, the Project Unit shall also be
provided with an accountant.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
The School Design Unit
1.    The School Design Unit shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers,
for the carrying out of design and supervision of construction required for the
Project.
2.    The following members of the School Design Unit shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
(a)   Architect: execution of design for, and supervision of, civil works
included in the Project; and
(b)   Engineer (Part-Time): Project costing, analysis of tenders and assistance
to the Architect in the supervision of construction.


