Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15413
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Credit 1933-CE)
March 18, 1996
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution-and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =     SL Rupees (SLRs)
Appraisal year 1988 : US$1    =    SLRs 32.0
Intervening year 1991  US$1  =     SLRs 40.1
Completion year 1994  US$1  =      SLRs 50.4
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)            =   39.37 inches (in)
1 kilovolt (kV)        =   1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)        =   1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  =   1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
I MVA                  =   1,000 kilovolt amperes
I MVAR                 =   1,000 kilovolt amperes reactive
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEB        -      Ceylon Electricity Board
EIRR       -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOSL       -      Government of Sri Lanka
GTZ        -      Gesellschaft fuir Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICR        -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA        -      International Development Association
KGMP       -      Kalu Ganga Multipurpose Project
LECO       -      Lanka Electricity Company Limited
OECF       -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
ROR        -      Rate of Return
SAR        -      Staff Appraisal Report
SCADA    -        Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Programme
wtp        -      willingness to pay
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Credit 1933-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . ........................................  i
PART I    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  .................... 1
Project Identity and Background . ........................................ 1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives.                                                        2
Project Objectives.                                                              2
Project Description.                                                             2
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                                                 3
Macroeconomic Policies.                                                          3
Sectoral Policies.                                                               3
Financial Objectives.                                                            4
Institutional Development Objectives.                                            5
Physical Objectives.                                                             5
Economic Analysis.                                                               5
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                       5
Factors not generally subject to Government Control.                             5
Factors generally subject to Government Control.                                 6
Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency Control.                        6
Project Costs and Financing.                                                     6
Project Implementation.                                                          7
Environentv.                                                                     7
D. Project Sustainability ................. 7
E. IDA's Performance.                                                                         7
Project Identification.                                                          7
Project Preparation.                                                             8
Project Appraisal.                                                               8
Project Supervision.                                                             8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



F.   Performance of Borrower and Beneficiary  .........                 ..................... 9
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal  .9....... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
Project Implementation  .9..........................  .......  .                         .  9
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..........................................9
H. Future Operation ........................................... 9
I.   Key Lessons Learned  ..........................................  10
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                           ..                              11
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments ................................. 11
Table 2:    Related Bank Loan and Credits  .................   12
Table 3:    Project Timetable ..................................... 13
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
Table 5A:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Distribution Works .14
Table 5B:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Transmission Works .15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs .18
Table 8B:  Project Financing  ..................................... 18
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits .          .............................  19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................ 20
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .....                 ............ 23
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .          ............................. 23
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions ................................ 24
Appendices:
A.  Missions's Aide Memoire (September 27 - October 13, 1995) with Operational Plan  .   25
B. Borrower's Evaluation .................................... 34
C.  Ceylon Electricity Board's Financial Statements  .........               ................ 44
D.  Economic Internal Rate of Return  ..................................  47
E. Changes in Project Scope .................................... 48
F.   Local Authority Electricity Schemes Taken .          ............................  50
Map IBRD No. 27602



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Credit 1933-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Distribution and
Transmission Project in Sri Lanka for which Cr. 1933-CE in the amount of SDR 29.2 million (US$40.5
million equivalent) was approved on June 23, 1988. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, as
originally scheduled. Final disbursement took place on July 6, 1995, at which time a balance of
SDR 15.5 million (US$21.5 million equivalent) was cancelled. Cofinancing of US$31.0 million was
provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF).
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Somin Mukherji, Financial Analyst, and Mohinder
Manrai, Consultant (Power Engineer), Energy and Project Finance Division, Country Department I of
the South Asia Regional Office. It has been reviewed by Messrs. Per Ljung, Chief, Energy and Project
Finance Division and Fakhruddin Ahmed, Project Adviser, Country Department I.
Preparation of this ICR began just before IDA's completion mission (September 27 to
October 13, 1995.) It is based on material in the Project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the Project's execution; its comments on the draft ICR will
be invited. OECF joined the completion mission and although they were invited to comment on the draft
ICR, no comments were received to date. However, because the components which OECF financed are
now scheduled for completion by July 1997, a separate evaluation for inclusion in this ICR is not
expected.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Credit 1933-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Bank Group's involvement with Sri Lanka's power sub-sector began in 1954 when
a loan (Ln. 101-CE) was made to the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) for the expansion of an
Aberdeen-Laksapana hydroelectric scheme.  Since then the Bank Group, through ten additional
loans/credits, has been actively involved in providing resources needed for the development of the sub-
sector in terms of capacity to meet demand at least cost, to improve the quality and reliability of supply
and to encourage institutional reforms.
The Project (made effective in 1988) was the tenth in the sector and is followed by one
ongoing project. Prior to 1988, the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) was responsible for about 75% of
the total electricity sales in Sri Lanka; the sale of the balance 25% was carried out by Lanka Electricity
Company Limited and 212 licensees (Local Authorities). This fragmentation of responsibility for
distribution was recognized as a major impediment to the efficient operation and development of the
power sub-sector. Under the Ninth Power Project (Cr. 1736-CE), GOSL/CEB agreed to prepare a master
plan for the development of distribution systems; the master plan included both institutional requirements
to rehabilitate the systems and appropriate organizational/institutional reforms (para. 7). Consultants were
appointed in October 1987, and based on their recommendations, GOSL adopted an action plan to take
over all the licensees in a phased manner. In the initial phase, the plan included CEB's taking over 133
licensees, which was financed under this Project, and Lanka Electricity Company Limited taking over
23 licensees, which was financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The remaining 56 licensees
are being taken over by CEB under the ongoing Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Cr.
2297-CE).
Objectives
The principal objectives of the Project were to: rationalize the organization of the power
distribution system; rehabilitate and expand the distribution systems managed by the licensees; reduce
systems losses and improve the quality of electricity supply; implement CEB's least-cost transmission
expansion program; strengthen CEB institutionally through the corporate-wide computerization of its
billing system; train staff in computerized accounts and engineering; improve CEB's financial
performance by reducing accounts receivable from licensees; and assist in the optimal development of
the Kalu Ganga basin's land and water resources. The objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with
IDA's and GOSL's strategy for the power sub-sector (paras. 3 and 4).
Implementation Experience and Results
The Project substantially achieved its major objectives and its overall assessment was
satisfactory (para. 32). The sectoral (para. 8) and institutional objectives (para. 12) were met adequately
and, on completion, the physical objectives will be met satisfactorily as well (para. 13). Through the
handing over of licensees' distribution systems to CEB, the organization of the power sector has been



-ii-
rationalized. Subsequently, necessary investments were made for rehabilitation and expansion of these
distribution systems with adequate focus on reduction of systems losses and improvement in the quality
of electricity supply. Additional transmission capacity was provided in accord with CEB's least-cost
transmission expansion program. Appropriate consultancy services and training was provided to promote
institutional development in certain selected areas on computerized accounts and engineering. However,
during restructuring of the Project in November 1993, computerization of CEB's billing systems was
taken out of the Project scope as CEB agreed to finance it out of its own resources. The original Project
completion period of five years was realistic. However, due to implementation problems primarily
arising out of procurement related issues, Project completion has been delayed (para. 20). The financial
objective was to ensure CEB's sustainable financial viability through attainment of a satisfactory annual
rate of return (ROR), while ensuring adequate cash flow so that debt service coverage is maintained at
a minimum level of 1.5. Although during Project implementation (1988-1994) tariffs were increased at
an annual average rate of about 16%, most of the increases occurred in FYs 93 and 94 (in aggregate,
48% for the two years). Thus, during most of the Project implementation period, CEB failed to meet
the covenanted ROR target of 8%. The achievement of financial objectives was therefore partial (paras.
9-1 1). In spite of IDA's repeated reminders, GOSL/CEB did not demonstrate adequate commitment to
meet the covenants satisfactorily; as a consequence, IDA decided to close the Credit without an extension
(paras. 2 and 9).
The key factors that affected the timely achievement of physical objectives were: (a)
security considerations in the Northern Province that resulted in reduction and modification of the
transmission works; processing of alternate works took time and delayed the implementation; (b)
protracted procurement procedures; (c) limited work force; (d) undue priority granted to rural
electrification schemes which diverted manpower resources from the Project; and (e) an exodus of
qualified and experienced engineers and accountants to other countries.
IDA and CEB jointly prepared the Project which was a part of CEB's least cost expansion
and rehabilitation program, and their performance during the identification and preparation stages were
satisfactory (paras. 26, 27 and 30). During appraisal, IDA did not fully assess the security risks in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces nor the adequacy of CEB's work force to implement work related to the
rehabilitation and augmentation of the distribution system. Also, the delays in procurement were not
anticipated. All other factors and risks were fully assessed, and mitigating steps were included in the
Project design. Overall, appraisal of the Project was satisfactory (para. 28). Satisfactory supervision of
the Project was also carried out by IDA on a regular basis (para. 29). CEB's financial performance was
unsatisfactory as it could not meet all the financial covenants. Its performance during implementation
was therefore deficient (para. 21).
The Project's estimated cost at appraisal was US$113.0 million, including contingencies,
duties and taxes. Of this, the foreign exchange cost was estimated at US$61.0 million, with financing
from IDA (US$36.0 million) and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (US$25.0 million). Local
costs, estimated at US$52.0 million were to be financed by IDA (US$4.5 million), OECF (US$6.0
million) and CEB (US$41.5 million). The Project is now expected to be completed by December 1997
compared with the appraisal target of December 1993 for completion, and closure by December 1994.
On completion, the Project is estimated to cost US$75.2 million with financing by IDA of US$19.4
million and by OECF of US$20.8 million (para. 22).



-iii-
Project Sustainability
On completion the Project will be a part of CEB's integrated transmission and distribution
system. Apart from IDA, other donors are also assisting CEB in strengthening its transmission and
distribution system. Under all these projects, adequate funds for training CEB staff in major operational
areas have been provided. Through significant tariff increases in FYs 93, 94 and 96, the financial health
of CEB has largely been sustained. Thus, the achievements of the Project will be sustained. To ensure
this, CEB has prepared a detailed Operational Plan (Appendix A) indicating how the Project will be
managed in the future to maximize the benefits derived, thus ensuring Project sustainability.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
In this type of Project where major rehabilitation of distribution lines and substations is
involved, detailed design and advance procurement actions should be undertaken during the preparation
stage of the Project. Efforts should be directed towards the general development of local contractors for
the erection and rehabilitation of transmission and distribution works. CEB's autonomy in terms of
carrying out procurement should have been carefully evaluated, and prior agreements should have been
sought with GOSL/CEB on procurement methodologies.
Over the last three years, CEB has not been able to add to its generation capacity.
Currently, GOSL is negotiating with independent power producers to set up power plants on a
BOO/BOT' basis. In addition, CEB is also negotiating with other donors (ADB, KfW and OECF) to
add to its generating capacity. Unless these plants are commissioned soon, load shedding, that has
already started, could increase to serious proportions. Since CEB's institutional set up is not adequate
to meet the growing demands--both in quantity and quality terms--of a rapidly expanding export industry,
future assistance for the sector should be appropriately oriented towards institution building, sector
restructuring and enhancing the role of private enterprises in generation and distribution.
A monitorable Operational Plan has been agreed with GOSL/CEB and will be reviewed
by subsequent IDA missions while supervising the remaining ongoing Project with CEB (Second Power
Distribution and Transmission Project, Cr. 2297-CE). Any impact evaluation of the Project should be
carried out by the Operations Evaluation Department around mid-1998, when the Project would have
completed one year of operation (para. 33).
1/    BOO - Build-Own-Operate
BOT - Build-Own-Transfer






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Credit 1933-CE)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Eoject Identit
Name           Power Distribution & Transmission Project
Credit         1933-CE
RVP Unit       South Asia Region
Country        Sri Lanka
Sector         Energy
Sub-sector     Power
1.           Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), a statutory organization established in 1969, is the
dominant entity in Sri Lanka's power sub-sector and is responsible for generation and transmission
throughout the country and for distribution in areas that are not served by the Lanka Electric Company
Limited (LECO) and local authorities (licensees). During Project processing in 1988, CEB was
responsible for about 75% of the total electricity sales; the sale of the balance was carried out by LECO
and 212 licensees (local authorities). This fragmentation of responsibility for distribution was recognized
as a major impediment to the efficient operation and development of the power sub-sector. Under the
immediately preceding Credit (Ninth Power Project, Cr. 1736-CE), GOSL/CEB agreed to prepare a
master plan for the development of distribution systems, including both institutional requirements to
rehabilitate the systems and introduce appropriate organizational/institutional reforms. Consultants were
appointed in October 1987, and based on their recommendations, GOSL adopted an action plan to take
over all the licensees in a phased manner. The plan included CEB's taking over of 133 licensees, which
was financed under this Project, and LECO taking over 23 licensees which was financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). The 56 remaining licensees are being taken over by CEB with financial
assistance provided under the ongoing Second Power Distribution and Transmission Project (Cr. 2297-
CE).
2.           The Project covered a five-year time slice of CEB's investment plan. It was appraised in
February 1988 and the Credit was approved by IDA's Board in June 1988. The Credit and Project
Agreements were signed in August 1988 and declared effective in November 1988. The Project was
originally scheduled to be closed by December 31, 1994. Following a mid-term review in October 1993,
a two-year extension along with inclusion of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system was approved in November 1993; this was contingent upon GOSL/CEB's compliance with an
agreed, dated action plan that included agreed target dates for submission of FY92 audited accounts and
various procurement related activities. CEB was also required to demonstrate its commitment to meet
the agreed rate of return covenant. GOSL/CEB's failure to adhere to the action plan led to project
closure, as originally scheduled, in December 1994 (para. 9). Cofinancing of US$31.0 million equivalent



was provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) to finance various 1 32-kV
transmission works (para. 13).
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.            Project Objectives: The principal objectives of the Project were to: rationalize the
organization of the power distribution system; rehabilitate and expand the distribution system managed
by the licensees; reduce systems losses and improve the quality of electricity supply; implement CEB's
least-cost transmission expansion program; strengthen CEB institutionally through the corporate-wide
computerization of its billing system; train staff in computerized accounts and engineering; improve
CEB's financial performance by reducing accounts receivable from licensees; and assist in the optimal
development of the Kalu Ganga basin's land and water resources. Based on the findings of the mid-term
review in October 1993, the Project was restructured and IDA tentatively agreed to finance a SCADA
System (para. 2). However, this component never materialized due to procurement delays and closure
of the Credit. Also, during the mid-term review mission, CEB agreed to finance from its own resources,
instead of from the Credit proceeds, the procurement of a decentralized billing system and cost of local
construction contractors; the restructured Project reflected these changes (paras. 22 and 23).2
4.            The power distribution component of the Project was complimentary to the Ninth Power
Project (Cr. 1736-CE) and in effect extended the geographic coverage of CEB's distribution network.
The transmission component was part of CEB's least-cost transmission investment program, while the
feasibility study for the Kalu Ganga Multipurpose Project (KGMP) facilitated a change in design from
a reservoir type multipurpose project to a run-of-the-river type power project in one of the country's
major river basins. The consultancy studies were aimed at institutional building efforts with special
emphasis in assisting CEB in the procurement processing for the Project's major investment components.
The Project's objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with IDA's strategy for Sri Lanka's power
sub-sector. These were also consistent with GOSL's energy strategy which included, inter alia,
improving the quality and reliability of electricity supply and efficiency in the operation of the power
system. The Project was well designed to meet these objectives and was a part of CEB's least-cost
investment program; as such, it was not complex or demanding for CEB. As a condition of Credit
effectiveness, GOSL was required to promulgate its legislation that enabled CEB to take over the
licensees. There was no other risk perceived that could adversely effect project effectiveness.
5.            Project Description: In order to achieve the above objectives, the following components
were included under the Project:
(a)    a five-year time slice of CEB's expenditures to rehabilitate, develop, and expand
distribution systems to be taken over from selected licensees;
(b)    the construction of about 230 km of 132-kV transmission lines, the reconductoring of
about 150 km of 132-kV transmission lines, and the construction and augmentation of
related substations;
2/    Changes in Project scope are detailed in Appendix E.



- 3 -
(c)    consulting services to: (i) develop a decentralized, computerized billing system and a
management information system (MIS); (ii) assist CEB in the preparation of the detailed
specifications and design of the 132-kV transmission systems3 in (b) above and
preparation of bidding documents for major transmission contracts; (iii) assist CEB in
carrying out a tariff study; (iv) assist in the development of a training program for middle
level technical officers; (v) assist in the establishment of a consumer relations unit; and
(vi) assist in monitoring the continued implementation of CEB's new organizational
structure; and
(d)    a feasibility study for the KGMP.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.            Macroeconomic Policies: The Project design did not envisage any macroeconomic policy
improvement measures. However, sectoral policies aimed at overall improvement of the sector were
addressed and are discussed below.
7.            Sectoral Policies: A major issue that impeded the sector's development and efficient
operation was the fragmentation of responsibility for the electricity supply among CEB, LECO and the
local authorities (licensees). Most of the licensees were inefficient and faced serious problems including:
(a) high systems losses (averaging about 25%), (b) unreliable, poor quality and deteriorating supply, (c)
high accounts payable to CEB (averaging about 5.5 months' billing in 1987), (d) long delays in
connecting new consumers, and (e) shortages of competent staff.4 This was a major sectoral issue and
GOSL was seriously considering the need for rationalization of the power distribution system. The
Project addressed this sectoral issue by facilitating the gradual takeover of these licensees (para. 1). In
addition, the lack of detailed knowledge of the country's hydropotential and its development was a major
hindrance to the development of hydropower in Sri Lanka. This was addressed by carrying out a Master
Plan Study in April 1986 from financing made available through the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ)5. The Master Plan Study was complemented by a pre-feasibility study on the KGMP
financed by UNDP and executed by IDA. Thereafter, the feasibility study of the Kukule hydropower
project (a component of the KGMP) was carried out through finances made available under the Project;
based on the findings of this report, construction of the Kukule hydropower project is now being financed
by OECF. The Project also assisted CEB in implementation of its least-cost transmission expansion plan.
And, finally, the Project addressed a major issue of CEB's institutional weaknesses through various
studies and technical assistance.
8.            Overall, the sectoral policy objectives were satisfactorily achieved. With a far more
rationalized distribution system in operation now, losses in the past licensees' areas have reduced from
an average of 25%  in 1988 to an average of 18.3% at the end of 1994. However, the takeover of
3/     The scope of the transmission works was subsequently changed (para. 23)
4/     At the time of project preparation CEB was responsible for about 75% of total electricity sales, while LECO and
the licensees were responsible for the balance of 25%.
5/     Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit



-4-
licensees distribution resulted in an increase in CEB overall systems losses from 16.4% in FY85 to
17.8% in FY93 and 18.3% in FY94.6 Power generation, though not included within the scope of the
Project, continues to be poorly managed while the absence of transparent regulatory and contractual
frameworks' has resulted in limited progress in attracting Independent Power Producers.
9.            Financial Objectives: The financial objectives were to ensure CEB's continued financial
viability through attainment of a satisfactory ROR of 8 % and an adequate cash flow so that debt service
coverage ratio was maintained at a minimum level of 1.5. Although during Project implementation
(1989-1994) tariffs were increased at an annual average rate of about 16% (from SLRs 1.66/kWh to SLRs
3.44/kWh), most of the increase occurred in FYs 93 and 94 (in aggregate 48 % for the two years). Thus,
during most of the project implementation period, CEB failed to meet the covenanted ROR target of 8 %.
In short, the major reasons for CEB's non-compliance with the ROR covenant are as follows: (a)
inadequate tariff increases; (b) increasing system losses; (c) GOSL's decision in May 1994 to roll back
tariffs to the pre-February 1994 levels for the first 0-100 kWh domestic consumption block; this block
accounted for about 17% of the overall sales. With this adjustment, the tariff for the above block is only
SLRs 1.62/kWh (US$ 0.03/kWh) and is about 47% of the average revenue rate; and (d) abolition of a
fuel surcharge in effect from February 1994. Lack of commitment on GOSL/CEB's part to comply with
the agreed covenants and with the agreed action plan (para. 2) led to the Credit's closure without further
consideration of the two-year extension which had been approved conditionally. More recently, however,
CEB's finalized FY94 accounts indicate that its ROR attained at the end of 1994 was close to the agreed
target of 8.0%;' in comparison, the RORs attained for FYs 92 and 93 were 4.1 % and 4.6% respectively.
In January 1996, CEB implemented another tariff increase of about 10% which should ensure that it
continues to meet the 8% ROR target. CEB has generally been in compliance with the debt service
coverage ratio covenant. A comparison of CEB's financial statements between appraisal estimates and
actuals is provided in Appendix C.
10.           As of the end of December 1994, CEB's total receivables were satisfactory and were at
SLRs 2,979 million or at a level of 2.6 months of annual electricity sales (against a target level of 3
months). However, the receivables from the low voltage private and government consumers were at a
level of 4.5 months and were unsatisfactory. CEB will continue to address this issue and necessary
follow-up will be carried out through close monitoring and supervision of the ongoing project (Cr. 2297-
CE).
11.           CEB was consistently late in submitting its annual audit reports and audited accounts; the
audit reports for FYs 92 and 93 were late by eleven months (para. 19). Apart from delays in finalization
of CEB's accounts, these delays have also been caused at the Auditor General's (CEB's auditors) office.
However, with the submission of the reports for FY94 in January 1996, the situation has improved
considerably. Thus, the overall financial objectives were partially met.
6/     These are based on FY93 (audited) and FY94 (pre-audited) statements. More recently, recalculations made
(because of faulty meter readings) indicate the actuals to be marginally higher (Part II, Table 6, No. 9).
7/     A study to examine the legal and regulatory framework and policy initiatives required to promote private sector
participation in power sector development is in progress now; this is being financed under Japanese Grant Fund
No. 21361.
8/    The actual ROR for 1994 was 7.9%.



12.           Institutional DeveloRment Objectives: CEB's capability to plan, design, construct and
maintain its sub-transmission and distribution system inproved significantly under this Project. The
preparation of the distribution 1986 Master Plan (para. 7), helped CEB take over the operations of
licensees in a smooth manner. During the takeover of 133 licensees under the Project, more than 2,000
staff of the local authorities were affected. Of this, about 60% were absorbed in CEB after necessary
screening/tests and training, and the balance opted to retire with pension benefits under Local Government
Pension Schemes. This transition process was carried out smoothly. Thus, the achievement of
institutional development objectives was substantial and satisfactory.
13.           Physical Objectives: CEB carried out a detailed survey and used a computer aided design
package to identify reinforcement and expansion requirements of the licensees' distribution systems. The
key indicators for Project implementation on appraisal estimates, detailed survey, design estimates and
expected achievements on completion for the distribution components are included in Part II, Table 5A.
Based on technical specifications prepared by a U.K. consultant and financed under the Credit, CEB
prepared bid documents for the 132-kV transmission works for the IDA-financed components and used
the services of a joint venture consultancy from Japan and Germany for the OECF- financed 132-kV
transmission works. The key indicators for Project implementation of the transmission components (both
IDA and OECF financed) are included in Part II, Table 5B. Overall, the Project on its completion, will
achieve its physical objectives satisfactorily--albeit with significant delays.
14.           It is noteworthy to mention that both the IDA-financed and the OECF-financed
components underwent considerable modifications. GOSL/CEB confirmed that the works as originally
appraised could not be implemented due to prevailing security reasons, and alternate works were needed
to meet the growing demand; these modifications were agreed by IDA and OECF.
15.           Economic Analysis: The Project was a part of CEB's least-cost expansion program, and
during appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) on CEB's investment program for
generation, transmission and distribution for the period 1988-2002 was estimated at 7.7%. With actual
data for the period 1988-1994, the EIRR is now estimated at 10.2%, which is higher than the appraisal
estimate.9 The assumptions used for calculating the EIRR are shown in Part II, Table 9 and the
calculations, in Appendix D.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.           Factors not generally subject to Government control: Due to security considerations in
the Northern Province, the scope of the transmission works had to be modified and reduced. Processing
of alternative works took time and consequently delayed Project implementation.
17.    Throughout the implementation period, the exodus of qualified and experienced engineers and
accountants to other countries continued. To this end, GOSL/CEB offered various incentives but the
impact so far has been minimal. This adversely affected Project implementation.
2/    In addition, the SAR had also calculated the EIRR on the basis of consumer willingness to pay (wtp) for the
incremental electricity sales. Because of lack of necessary information on the methodology adopted during
appraisal, it was not possible to replicate the process and calculate the EIRR through a comparable assessment of
wtp.



- 6 -
18.          Factors generally subject to Government control: Although by statute, CEB is an
autonomous body, the extent of autonomy and authority vested in CEB is quite limited. CEB enjoys
limited authority for procurement of materials and supplies required for carrying out its mandate (efficient
generation and supply of electricity) effectively, and currently is entitled to procure materials (or enter
into turnkey contract agreements) for a threshold value of only up to SLRs 20 million'0 which is
insignificant and totally inadequate for proper functioning of a modern power utility. For amounts above
this threshold, various government-appointed committees and agencies are involved, and, in general, the
approval process delays the entire implementation process.
19.   Throughout most of the implementation period, CEB was not in compliance with a major financial
covenant. Tariff increases (that are subject to governmental approval) were inadequate and delayed; this
resulted in violation of the ROR covenant during the 1988-93 period. However, following major
increases in FYs 93 and 94, CEB is now basically meeting the 8% ROR target. In addition, CEB has
consistently failed to submit its audited financial statements in a timely manner; CEB's audits are carried
out by the Auditor General's (AG) office and delays in the AG's office have contributed to the overall
delays in submission of audit reports (para. 11). These factors have adversely affected compliance with
the financial objectives of the Project. More recently, however, the ROR has improved, and with
additional staff recruited at the AG's office, delays in submission of audited accounts have also reduced
significantly.
20.           Factors generallv subiect to implementing agencv control: Implementation of distribution
works has been poor; overall implementation has been only 32% as of August 1995 as compared to
appraisal estimates of 100% by the end of December 1993. The delays were primarily due to: (a)
protracted procurement procedures including delays in preparation of bid documents; (b) poor inventory
management; (c) limited construction work force; though efforts were made to engage local contractors,
only a few had the necessary equipment and transportation arrangements; (d) priority given by CEB to
expansion and erection of rural electrification schemes instead of rehabilitation of existing distribution
networks; and (e) resistance from consumers to the unplanned shutdowns enforced by CEB to construct
and rehabilitate the lines and substations.  Implementation of the transmission works (including
construction of eight kIn of 132-kV loop line and the construction of a 132-kV substation at Chilaw) were
delayed because of delays in land acquisition.
21.           The above factors adversely affected smooth implementation of the Project.
22.           Proiect Costs and Financing: Based on early 1988 prices, the Project's estimated cost
at appraisal was US$113.0 million, including contingencies, duties and taxes. Of this, the foreign cost
was estimated at US$61.0 million, with financing from IDA (US$36.0 million) and OECF (US$25.0
million); and the local cost was estimated at US$52.0 million, with financing from IDA (US$4.5 million
equivalent), OECF (US$6.0 million equivalent) and CEB (US$41.5 million equivalent). On completion
in December 1997, the total cost of the Project, as revised (para. 3), is now estimated to be US$75.2
million, with the foreign exchange cost being US$37.6 million. The considerable savings generated were
primarily due to: (a) appreciation of SDR against US$, and (b) lower bid prices than appraisal estimates.
The original and final Project costs and financing plan are shown in Part II, Tables 8A and 8B.
10/    At IDA's persistent request, in July 1994, GOSL enhanced CEB's authority and the threshold was increased from
SLRs. 20 million to SLRs. 100 million, i.e., about US$2.0 million equivalent (para. 31).



23.           Project Implementation: During negotiations it was agreed that the Project would be
completed by December 31, 1993, and the Project Closing Date was established one year later. Due to
civil disturbances in the Mannar area, IDA agreed in September 1991 to GOSL/CEB's request to modify
the scope of the Project (para. 3). The following modifications were agreed upon: the planned
construction of the 132-kV transmission line between Anuradpura-Mannar with a new 132-kV substation
at Mannar were replaced by the construction of a new substation at Chilaw (including eight km of loop
line) and the augmentation of two substations at Ratmalana and Pannipitiya. Subsequently, following the
mid-term review of October 1993, IDA agreed to: (a) restructure the Project by including financing of
a SCADA system from expected savings (paras. 3 and 22), and (b) extend the Credit Closing Date by
two years (until the end of December 1996). These agreements were however contingent upon
GOSL/CEB's strict adherence to a dated action plan as agreed with IDA. Failure on GOSL/CEB's part
to comply with the agreed action plan resulted in Project closure on December 31, 1994 (para. 2). The
estimated and actual disbursements are shown in Part II, Table 4. Disbursements of SDR 13.7 million
(US$19.4 million equivalent) were made until July 6, 1995, and an outstanding balance of SDR 15.5
million (US$21.5 million equivalent) was cancelled. The main reasons for these cancellations were: (a)
appreciation of SDR against US$; (b) lower bid prices than appraisal estimates; and (c) GOSL/CEB's
inability to adhere to the agreed action plan.
24.           Environment: The Project's direct adverse impact was limited to construction of new
lines and sub-stations. The ecological impact of the distribution lines was regulated by Sri Lanka's
existing laws, including the Electricity Act, the Flora and Fauna Act, and the Forestry Ordinance. These
laws adequately regulated any adverse ecological impact from the Project. On the other hand, the Project
had a positive impact by providing a higher quality of life by replacing kerosene lamps with electricity,
which is efficient, clean and relatively safe compared to kerosene lamps.
D. Project Sustainability
25.          On completion (expected in July 1997), the Project will be a part of CEB's integrated
transmission and distribution system. A follow-up Project" was approved by IDA to strengthen the
transmission and distribution system of CEB even further. In addition, other donors are also providing
assistance to CEB. Under all these projects, substantial funds for training in all spheres of CEB's
operations have been provided. With CEB's improving financial performance and continued focus on
providing appropriate training to its staff, the major objectives of the Project will be sustained. The
detailed Operational Plan that CEB has prepared will ensure future sustainability of the Project (Annex
1 of Appendix A).
E. IDA's Performance
26.          Project Identification: The Project was identified in 1987 to complement the Ninth Power
Project (Cr. 1736-CE) which addressed energy conservation and resource use efficiency issues through
the reduction of systems losses in CEB's distribution system. In addition, the Project provided necessary
support to GOSL's reform plans in taking over 133 poorly performing licensees by CEB. This is
11/    Cr. 2297, refer Part II, Table 2.



-8 -
consistent with the Bank's and GOSL's strategy for the power sub-sector, and IDA's role in this regard
was satisfactory.
27.          Project Preparation: IDA assisted CEB in the preparation of the Project and identified
distinct components keeping in view GOSL's reform objectives for the sector, CEB's least-cost expansion
plan, and IDA's strategy for the sub-sector's development.  All technical, financial, economic,
institutional and environmental aspects were reviewed carefully and included in the Project scope
wherever necessary. The performance of IDA in Project preparation was satisfactory.
28.          Project Appraisal: Pre-appraisal and appraisal of the Project was carried out during
December 1987 - February 1988 by two economists, a financial analyst, a power engineer and an
operations assistant; most of the technical issues were addressed in the earlier stages of Project
processing. The time spent on appraisal was appropriate and adequate. In addition to the aspects
mentioned above (paras. 26, 27), IDA also reviewed the commitment of GOSL and CEB towards the
Project's objectives during appraisal. CEB appointed an experienced transmission engineer as Project
Manager in its transmission project unit who was directly responsible for Project implementation. The
Project was a part of CEB's least-cost development program and both GOSL and CEB were fully
committed to it. With a decentralized management structure that resulted from studies carried out under
the sixth Power Project (Cr. 1048-CE), the capacity and capability of CEB in implementing the Project
was reviewed and found to be adequate. However, the appraisal mission also concluded that CEB would
require technical assistance for preparing detailed design and for training CEB staff in certain critical
areas which were considered necessary to ensure Project sustainability. Necessary provisions were made
in the Project for financing appropriate training measures. The lending instrument, financial package and
the cofinancing arrangements (with OECF) were also appropriate. Based on experience in Sri Lanka and
in the region, the implementation schedule was optimistic, especially since advance procurement actions
were not taken. Except for the security situation in the Northern and Eastern Provinces, and the
adequacy of CEB's work force to implement all work related to the rehabilitation and augmentation of
the distribution systems, all other risks were identified during appraisal. Overall, the appraisal of the
Project by IDA was satisfactory.
29.          Project SuDervision: The Project was regularly supervised by IDA staff with thirteen
missions fielded during the life of the Project including an in-depth, mid-term review. The skill mix and
duration of the missions were adequate, and recommendations of the missions were reflected in the
country implementation reviews. The Bank's Resident Mission in Sri Lanka played a key role during
the missions. The supervision missions identified the implementation problems and also recommended
appropriate remedial measures. To enforce the compliance with financial covenants (para. 9), remedies
were sought by IDA in January 1993 through threatening suspension of disbursement for all ongoing
power sector credits to Sri Lanka. As a result, major tariff increases of about 48% in two years were
effected in FYs 93 and 94 (para. 9). In responding to the changed security environment in the Northern
Province, IDA was flexible in changing the Project scope in September 1991. Subsequently, during the
mid-term review, because of the need for a SCADA system and as a result of potential savings being
available, IDA agreed to restructure the project and include financing of the SCADA system (para. 23).
No significant deviations were made from the Bank's policies and procedures. Overall, Project
supervision was carried out in a satisfactory manner.



- 9 -
F. Performance of the Borrower and Beneficiary
30.          Proiect Identification, Preparation and Appraisal: During Project identification, CEB
recognized the importance of planning and design of a power distribution system. It had established a
"Loss Reduction Cell" earlier which, in August 1984, was converted to a full-fledged "Distribution
Development and Rehabilitation Branch." It also acquired a distribution study software package and
prepared a Project Document in April 1985.  Further, CEB engaged consultants to rationalize its
fragmented distribution system (para. 1). The consultants' draft report formed the basis for IDA to
prepare and appraise the Project to which CEB was fully committed. CEB's performance during
identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
31.           Project Implementation: During implementation, counterpart funds were provided by
CEB in a timely manner. The training component was also properly utilized. CEB appointed competent
staff to supervise and monitor the Project. However, there were frequent changes of key Project staff
which disrupted Project implementation. Progress reports were prepared in a timely manner and were
adequate for IDA to monitor the performance of the Project. CEB fully cooperated with IDA supervision
missions. The sectoral policy issues (except in the generation area) were addressed by GOSL/CEB
satisfactorily (paras. 7-8).  Institutional development objectives were met substantially, and, on
completion, the physical objectives will be met substantially as well (paras. 12 and 13). There were
protracted delays in the evaluation of bids and award of contracts. These issues were raised repeatedly
by IDA supervision missions, and GOSL/CEB was responsive partially and modified the thresholds for
procurement approval (para. 18). While CEB has not been in compliance in the past with the major
financial covenants (paras. 9 and 19), its performance has, of late, improved. CEB's overall performance
in the implementation of the Project was deficient (para. 21).
G. Assessment of Outcome
32.          The Project substantially achieved its sectoral and institutional objectives. The physical
objectives will also be substantially achieved on completion, but the financial objectives could not be
achieved satisfactorily. With CEB's improving financial performance and continued focus on overall
institutional strengthening by providing appropriate training to its staff, the overall objectives of the
Project would be sustainable (para. 25). The actual total Project cost and its foreign component are
within the SAR estimates. The EIRR of 10.2% is higher than the appraisal estimate (para. 15). Overall
assessment of the Project is satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
33.           Although during appraisal an operational plan was not agreed with GOSL/CEB, such a
monitorable plan was agreed during the implementation completion mission (October 1995). The plan
provides for technical inputs from CEB at agreed intervals. It also addresses issues required for
satisfactory future financial operation of the Project. Implementation of the plan will be monitored by
IDA as a part of its supervision of the ongoing Project (Cr. 2297-CE). An impact evaluation of the
Project should be carried out by the Operations Evaluation Department around mid-1998, when one year
of operation after full completion of the Project will have been completed.



- 10-
I. Key Lessons Learned-
34.           Implementation of the Project suffered due to: (a) revisions in Project scope and design;
(b) changes in the routes of the sub-transmission lines; (c) poor inventory control of materials; (d)
protracted procurement procedures; (e) opposition from consumers against frequent shut-downs; (f) civil
unrest initially in the whole country and later in the Northern and Eastern provinces; (g) protests from
the landowners for constructing the lines across their land; and (h) delay by the contractors. The
following are the key lessons learned:
(i)    advance procurement actions (e.g., preparation of bid documents, hiring of consultants)
should be tied up with various stages of project processing. CEB staff should familiarize
themselves with Bank's standard bidding documents;
(ii)    CEB's financial authority to handle procurement decisions (independent of GOSL's
interventions) should be enhanced;
(iii)   during the initial stages of project preparation, comprehensive training programs with an
objective of overall institutional strengthening should be developed and agreed.
Thereafter, during implementation, all training activities should be regularly followed up
and impact assessment carried out, both on an individual level and corporate wide;
(iv)   security risks should be properly evaluated and works in security prone areas should not
be included in the scope of a future project;
(v)    efforts should be made by CEB to develop local contractors for the erection of power
lines and sub-stations. Because local contractors have limited equipment and vehicles,
CEB could rent out their own equipment and vehicles; and
(vi)   land acquisition and compensation procedures should be simplified.
35.           Although, the Bank/IDA has supported GOSL/CEB through 11 power sector operations
(of which 10 have been closed), CEB's system losses and accounts receivable continue to remain high
and need to be addressed. While tariffs were adjusted periodically (1988, 1990, 1993 and 1994), there
has been a reluctance on the part of GOSL/CEB to set the level and structure of tariffs appropriately.
In view of the inadequate financial resources available for investments and a looming power crisis, GOSL
is now rethinking its power sector development strategy including necessary sector reforms. In addition,
GOSL is actively seeking private sector investments for commissioning new generation facilities. Indeed,'
the agreements related to the first privately owned, IFC-sponsored 50 MW power plant were signed in
January 1996. IDA's strategy for the sector for further assistance to Sri Lanka will be targeted towards
facilitating restructuring of the sector and developing an enabling environment for entry of the private
sector in power generation.



- 11 -
PART n - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of A s
A. Achievement of Obiectives      Substantial        Partal         Neglitible     Not Anplicable
Macroeconomic Policies           O                 O                0                (1)
Sector Policies                  O I)                               0                0
Financial Objectives              O               (/)               0                0
Institutional Development       (V)                O                0                0
Physical Objectives              (/)               O                0                0
Poverty Reduction                0                 0                0                (/)
Gender Concerns                   O                O                0                (/)
Other Social Objectives           O                O                0                (1)
Environmental Objectives        (V)                O                0                0
Public Sector Management          O                O                0                (/)
Private Sector Development        O                O                0                (/)
Other (specify)                   O                O                0                (/)
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv           Like                    Unlikely                  Uner
(^/)                     O'                         0
C. Bank Performance              Sdsrv                    Satisfactory                Defiiejn
Identification                    O                       (/)                        0
Preparation Assistance            El                      (/)                        0
Appraisal                         E                       (.)                        E
Supervision                      E                        (W)                        El
D. Borrower Performance              r                    Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                       E                       (/)                        E
Implementation                    E                       (/)                        E
Covenant Compliance               E                        E                        (V)
Operation                        E                         E                        (/)
(system losses/accounts receivable)
E. Assessment of Outcome         S     ry         Satisfactory    Unutisfactory    U
E               ()                E                E



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loan and Credits
(from June 1980)
Credit Title                    Purpose            Year of Approval       Status
|Preceding Operations
Sixth Power Project,           Reinforcement and                  1980         Closed, 3/88
Credit 1048-CE                 improvement of power
transmission and distribution
system                                                         l
Seventh Power Project,         To strengthen the 220-kV and       1982         Closed, 3/88
Credit 1210-CE                 132-kV power transmission
system
Eighth Power Project,          To construct an 80 MW diesel       1982         Closed, 3/86
Loan 2187-CE                   power station
Ninth Power Project,           To improve the reliability and     1986         Closed, 6/94
Credit 1736-CE                 quality of power supply                                         l
Following Operations                                                                           l
Second Power Distribution and    To complete the take over and    1991         Closing date
Transmission Project,          improvement of distribution                     scheduled 6/98
Credit 2297-CE                 systems of 56 licensees and
strengthen the high voltage
l _______________________________   system



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    |    Date Planned     |   Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation                              September 20 - October 2, 1987
Pre-appraisal                                           December 7 - 21, 1987
Appraisal                         October 1985          February 17-29, 1988
Negotiations                      April 20, 1988        April 20 - 22, 1988
Board Presentation                June 28, 1988         June 23, 1988
Signing                                                 August 31, 1988
Effectiveness                                           November 23, 1988
Project Completion                December 31, 1993    December 31, 1996'
Credit Closing                    December 31, 1994    December 31, 1994
'The components financed by OECF will be completed by December 1997. Following Credit
closure by IDA in 12/94, other components under construction are being financed by CEB from
its own resources and will be completed by 12/96.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
[              |___________ [ FY88 J FY89 | FY90   FY91 [ FY92 J FY93 j FY94    FY95  [ FY96
Appraisal       0.4     1.6    7.7    16.2   24.7   31.2   36.5    40.5           40.5
Estimate
Actual          0.0     1.8      1.9    2.5   5.1       7.8    13.5    19.4       19.4
Actual as %            112.1   25.1    15.4   20.8   24.9   37.1    47.8         48.0
of Estimate
Date of Final                 July 6, 1995
Disbursement
Cancellation: SDR 15.5 million cancelled (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Note: The fiscal years referred to above relate to the period July 1 - June 30



- 14 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Distribution Works
INDICATORS                  APPRAISAL      DESIGN     STATUS AS    EXPECTED
ESTIMATES   ESTIMATES         OF        STATUS ON
AUGUST       PROJECT
1995      COMPLETION
DECEMBER
_________ _________ _________ _______  _ _________1996
A.    LV Network Improvement &
Expansion
Construction of New LV Lines           900 km       900 km       590 km         900 km
Rehabilitation of LV Lines            1500 km      1000 km       203 km        1000 km
Reconductoring of LV Lines             700 km       700 km       173 km         700 km
Conversion of LV Lines                              500 km       304 km         500 km
B.     MV Network Expansion & Substations
Construction of New MV Lines           600 km       600 km       145 km         600 km
Augmentation of Substations                       700 Nos.       47 Nos.      700 Nos.
Construction of New Substations      650 Nos.    650 Nos.    248 Nos.         650 Nos.
C.     Service Connection Improvements
Rehabilitation of Service Connections    70000 Nos.  70000 Nos.   7394 Nos.    70000 Nos.
Replacement of House Service Meters  90000 Nos.  90000 Nos.  11973 Nos.    90000 Nos.



Table SB: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Transmission Works
INDICATORS                     APPRAISAL            REVISED INDICATORS         STATUS ON SEPTEMBER            EXPECTED
COMPLETION DATE                                             1995             COMPLETION DATE
IDA FINANCED WORKS
i. 72km of 132-kV double circuit line from    December 31, 1993   The following works were
Anuradapura to Mannar with a new                              substituted in place of Mannar
substation at Mannar                                          works:
i. A new 132-kV substation at   Commissioned in        One transformer at
Chilaw with an 8km loop in line  September 1 995       Ratmalana was
commissioned
ii. Augmentation of 132-kV    Substation at Pannipitiya   December 1 9, 1 995.
substations at Pannipitiya and    was commissioned in  Balance of work on
Ratmalana                     September 1 995 but the   bays are expected by
substation at Ratmalana   the first week of April
is still under construction   1996.
OECF FINANCED WORKS
i. 81km of 1 32-kV double circuit line from    December 31, 1993   No change in project     Contract for all the lines    Originally expected to
Anuradapura to Puttalam                                       component.                    {i-iv) signed with an     be commissioned by
Indian firm in July 1995.   July 1997. After
ii. 62km of 1 32-kV double circuit line from                  - do -                        Construction period is    signing of contract,
Embilipitiya to Matara                                                                      about two years          the date will be
iii. Loop in & out of existing Polpitiya-                     - do -                                                  December 1997.
Anuradhapura 1 32-kV Line through
Ukuwela involving 11 km of line
iv. Reconductoring 22km of double circuit                     - do -
132-kV line from Kotugoda to Bolawatta
v. 9km of 1 32-kV double circuit line from                    deleted on account of security
Kankasanturai and Chunnakam                                   situation
vi. New 132-kV substations at Matara and                      Substation at Kankasanturai   Contract for all the      Originally expected to
Kankasanturai                                                 deleted on account of security   substations signed with a  be commissioned by
situation                    joint venture of South    June 1997. After
Korean and Chinese firms  signing of the
vii. Augmentation of Substations at                           Augmentation of Kilinochchi    in June 1995. The overall  contract, the revised
Ukuwela, Puttalam, Embilipitiya,                              substation deleted due to     construction period is    date will be December
Anuradhpura and Kilinochchi                                   security situation            about two years.          1997.



Table 6: Key Indicators in Project Operation
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                                       TIMING                            COMMENTS
1.  The Plant and Equipment Register is updated regularly                             Regularly     Regularly updated
2.  The Depot System Maintenance Register is updated each quarter                     Regularly     Updated quarterly
3.  Regular maintenance work of substations and transformers including scheduled      Regularly     Regular maintenance carried out
replacement of transformer oil is carried out
4.  LV and HV breakdowns in the Provinces are monitored                                Monthly      Monitored and monthly reported
5.  Training of technical staff are carried out in accordance with an agreed Training Plan  As required  According to CEB normal programs
6.  Procurement and installation of 70, 33-kV and 4, 11 -kV import-export meters                    Contract already awarded. Meters are expected to be
l_______________  installed by September 1996
7.  Monitoring of distribution system losses at Provincial level                                    Analysis is expected to start after installation of
l______________  Import/Export meters i.e. after September 1996
I                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%
8.  Monitoring of voltage levels of heavily loaded typical feeders in selected 40                   The monitoring work started in October 1995 and will be
distribution substations                                                                        continued for six months and thereafter the results will be
analysed before continuing the monitoring.
9.  Reduce system losses by at least I % in 1994 and 1995                             Annually      The losses have been re-calculated by CEB after the review
of incorrect meter readings. Based on revised information
CEB has calculated losses at 21.46% in FY93, 18.85% in
l ___________________________________________________________________              _____________      FY94,  and   18.46%   in   FY95   (until June   1995).
10. Reduce the operations and maintenance cost, expressed as a percentage of          Annually      By reducing the staff and amalgamating the routine
distribution capital cost                                                                       distribution maintenance and rehabilitation of works, CEB is
reducing operation and maintenance cost. The  0 & M cost
expressed as a percentage of gross distribution fixed assets
were 4.6%, 3.7%, and 3.5% in FYs 92,93 and 94
respectively.
11. Replacing of defective meters of bulk supply consumers                                          There is an ongoing project to identify defective bulk supply
meters. It is expected to check all these meters and replace
l_____________  them by September 1996.
12. Sealing of metering equipment of buik supply consumers by copper seals                          All old and new bulk supply meters are expected to be sealed
l______________  with new copper seals by September 1996.



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Induded in Project
Study                  Purpose                    Status                  Impact
Tariff and load     To assist CEB in identifying    The report was     Tariffs were restructured
management study.  load management measures      submitted in          and increased by about
and reforming its tariff     December 1990         30% in July 1993.
structure to better reflect the                    Subsequently, another
cost of supplying different                       tariff increase of about
loads.                                             30% was effected in
February 1994.
Feasibility study for  To assist CEB in carrying out   The report was  Investment program
the KGMP.          the optimal development of    submitted in March    recommended by the plan
the land and water (including    1993.             is being implemented by
hydroelectric) resources of the                    OECF.
Kalu Ganga Basin.
Review of CEB's    To re-examine CEB's           The report was        Based on the
organization        organizational structure, to  submitted in May     recommendations of the
structure.          identify necessary changes to   1991.              study, CEB reorganized
support the decentralization of                    the unit structures of the
the distribution function to the                   Additional General
provincial division level and to                   Managers and the Deputy
strengthen CEB's overall                           General Managers in April
operational and financial                          1991.
management capacity.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)     Estimate (US$M) as of
Item                                                   December 1995
Local  | Foreign | Total    Local | Foreign | Total
_________                          Costs  J Costs    _          Costs     Costs    _
1. Distribution Rehabilitation     23.8      17.3     41.1       15.7     9.1      24.8
2. Transmission System Expansion   13.4      24.3     37.7       19.8    23.9       43.7
3. Decentralized Computer Billing   0.2       1.8      2.0        0.0     0.3       0.3
System                                                                                l
4. Consultancy, Project             3.8       3.4      7.2        0.0     0.9       0.9
Administration and Training                                                           l
5. Kalu Ganga Studies               0.6       2.3      2.9       2.0      3.5       5.5
Total Baseline Cost                41.8      49.1     90.9       37.5    37.7       75.2
Physical Contingency            4.2       4.9      9.1
Price Contingency               6.0       7.0     13.0
Total Project Cost                 52.1      61.0     113.0    37.5       37.7      75.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Estimate (US$M) as of
Source                                                           December 1995
Local l Foreign |  Total       Local     Foreign     Total
l  Costs  | Costs  |       |  Costs       Costs
IDA                         4.5      36.0      40.5        0.5        18.9      19.4
OECF (Japan)                6.0      25.0       31.0       2.2        18.6      20.8
CEB                        41.5       0.0       41.5       35.0       0.0       35.0
Total                   52.0      61.0      113.0      37.7       37.6       75.2



- 19 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Assumptions                         Costs                         Benefits
1. The Project is a part of CEB's   1. Capital investment costs for  1. Incremental revenue from sale
least-cost development program    generation, transmission       of electricity. Actual benefits
and the economic internal rate    and distribution of CEB's      from 1988 to 1994, which
of return was calculated on the   overall investment             was frozen until 2024.
entire investment program of      program.
CEB for the period 1988-1994.
2. The benefit period of the      2.  Incremental operational and  2. According to the methodology
program extends from 1988 to      maintenance costs of           used in the SAR, the
2024, when the equipment          CEB's system. Actual           willingness to pay (wtp) has
provided under the Project is     costs from 1988 to 1994,       been measured in the
expected to have substantially    which was frozen until         following manner:
completed its useful life.        2024.
(a) historical consumer
tariffs; and
3.  All cost and benefit streams
have been expressed in 1988                                      (b) for residential and street
prices using IMF deflation                                       lighting consumers: on
factors. Foreign costs have                                      weighted average tariff rate
been measured using border                                       for incremental consumption
prices. Local costs for                                          in the respective categories,
materials and equipment have                                     and, for commercial, hotels
been expressed in terms of                                       and industrial consumers: in
equivalent border prices using                                   terms of incremental operating
the standard conversion factor                                   costs of meeting their
of 0.75 and unskilled labor                                      demands for electricity using
using a factor of 0.80.                                          auto-generators that are
displaced by public supply of
electricity.
4.  No residual value of fixed                                       These two approaches (a) and
assets are taken into account.                                   (b) have been adopted to
calculate EIRRs.
Economic Internal Rate of Return:
Appraisal Estimate:    7.7%
Actual:               10.2%



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Covenant                 Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Agreement       Section         Type        Status          Date           Date                 Description of Covenant                               Couments
Credit            3.04             2           CD         12/31/88                     The Borrower shall take or cause to be         In compliance from July 1991.
taken all measures necessary to ensure
that on and after December 31, 1988
totat dues for electricity supplied by
the Board shall not exceed three months
billing.
Credit            3.05             5           CD         10/31/89                      The Borrower shall carry out by October    The tariff and load management study
31, 1989 a tariff and load management         was completed in December 1990 and the
study and, thereafter, modify the             tariffs were restructured and
Board's tariffs taking into account the    increased in July 1993.  Another
recommendations of the above study.           increase in tariffs was effected in
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _        February    1994.
Credit            3.06             2           C                                        The Borrower shall take all necessary         The ROR improved from 4.6X as of FY93
actions to enable the Board to effect         to 7.9% as of FY94.
adjustments in its tariffs to enable it
to comply with the rate of return                                                           O
I_______                          covenant of the Project Agreement.
Credit          3.07              12           C                                        The Borrower shalt carry out a
satisfactory program to redeploy or
retire the staff of the local authority
distribution systems transferred to the
Board.
Credit            3.08            12           C                                        The Borrower shalL take measures for
the transfer of distribution systems
from the local authorities to the
Board.
Credit        4.01(b)(ii)          1           C                                        The Borrower shall furnish to IDA not
later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (i) an audit report on
the Special Account, and (ii) a
separate opinion by auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during each fiscaL year can
be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Project       4.01(b)(ii)          1           CD                                       The Board shall submit to IDA not later    Unaudited statements for FY94, due
than: (a) four months after the end of        end-April 95 were submitted to IDA in
each year, the unaudited financial            mid-May 95.  The FY94 audited accounts
statements for such year; and (b) ten         (due end-October 1995) were submitted
months after the end of each year,            in January 1996, implying a delay of
certified copies of its financial             three months.
statements.



Original        Revised
Covenant                 FulfilIment    Fulfillment
Agreement       Section          Type        Status          Date           Date                  Description of Covenant                               Comments
Project           4.02             2            C                                        The Board shall maintain a debt service    For FY94 the coverage was at 2.3.
coverage of not less than 1.5.
Project           4.03             2            C                                        The Board shall, before the end of each    The ROR improved from 4.6% as of FY93
fiscal year, adjust the tariffs to            to 7.9% as of FY94.
provide sufficient revenue to cover
operating expenses including taxes, if
any, and straight-line depreciation,
and to provide an annual return on
current vaLue of its net fixed assets
in service of not less than eight
percent.                                                                                   l
Project        Schedule 2          12           C                                        The Board shaLl carry out a program to
retrain those staff of the locaL
authority distribution systems
transferred to the Board.
Project        Schedule 2          5            CD         12/31/88                      The Board shaLL commence by December           The Board is developing a system for
31, 1988 the implementation of a              decentralized billing in phases.  This
program for the development of a              will be implemented in one province,
decentralized computerized billing             i.e., North-Western, by February 1996
system and upgrading of its management        and in four other provinces                     _
information system.                           thereafter. The second stage,
comprising five remaining provinces,
will be implemented after observing
the performance of the five provinces
covering the first stage.
Project        Schedule 2          2            C          12/31/88                      The Board shall take all measures              As of December 31, 1994, the total
necessary to ensure that on and after         dues from consumers were equal to 2.5
December 31, 1988, total biLLs due from    months of biltings.
consumers for electricity supplied by
the Board shaLl  not exceed three
months' billing.                                                                           l
Project        Schedule 2          5            C                                        For the purposes of self-insurance of          One-tenth of 1% of CEB's revalued
its assets, the Board shaLl, within 11        fixed assets are being deposited in
months of the end of the fiscal year,          the escrow account.
deposit its annuaL provision to the
insurance reserve in an insurance
escrow account with an independent
financial institution.
Project        ScheduLe 2          5            CD                                       The Board shall, by October 31, 1989,          The tariff and toad management study
carry out a tariff and load management        was completed in December 1990 and the
study and, thereafter, modify the              tariffs were restructured and
Board's tariffs taking into account the    increased in July 1993.  Another
recommendations of the above study.           increase in tariffs was effected in
February 1994.



Cont Tyes:
1.      Accounts/audit                                                                   S.        Indigernus People
2.       Fincisl perfor_ance/generate revenue froa beneficieries                          9.       Nnitoring, review, and reporting
3.       Ftow and utilization of project funds                                            10.      Project iept mmntation not covered by categories 1-9
4.       Counterpart tunding                                                              II.      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5.      Nanagment aspects of the project or executing agency                              12.      Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6.       Enviremnntal covenwnts                                                           13       Other
7.       Involuntary resettleement
C        a covenant complied with
CD       a cooplied with after delay
KC       = not coplied with
CP       = cooplied with partially
Question:    Is the selection of covenants appropriate?  Have any proved to be ineffective or superfluous?  Which, if any, additional covenants would have been useful?
Answer:       Selection of covenants was appropriate.  No covenant was superfluous.  The receivables covenant (Section 3.04 of OCA) should have provided for separate
monitoring of receivables due from the goverrnent departments  nd local authorities as was done under Section 3.03 of OCA of Credit 1736-Ci.
Ouestion      Are there any general problems or issues relating to conpliance with covenants under the project?
Answer:       Yes.  The Audit Report has invariabty been submitted late.  This is a countrywide issue.
* :o..hal9133 U



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There has not been any significant lack of compliance with Bank's Operational
Manual statements under this project.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project cycle        Planned       |       Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal   N/A         N/A        40.3      69.5
Appraisal                   N/A        N/A        7.0        11.7
Negotiations through       N/A         N/A         7.6       13.2
Board approval
Supervision                N/A         N/A        61.6      188.1
Completion                 N/A         N/A         5.8       18.6
TOTAL                      N/A         N/A       122.3      301.1
N/A - Not Available



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of            Month/year        Number        Days in          Specialized              Performance rating
Project cycle                              of         field'"          staff skills                                          Types of
persons                       represented          Implemen-        Develop-        problems
status         impact
Identification          Sept-Oct 1987           6           13          ECN/EGR/FNA-
OPN
Pre-Appraisal           Dec 1987                5           15           ECN/EGR/FNA 
OPN
Appraisal through       Feb 1988                2           13             EGR/FNA                   -               -
Board approval_______
Supervision             Mar 1989                2           17              EGR/FNA                  2               1             PM
Sep 1989               2             l1            ECN/FNA                   2               2            LC/PR
Dec 1989'3             2             8             EGRIEGR                   -               -
Mar-Apr 1990           2            31             EGR/FNA                   2               2             FP
Oct-Nov 1990           2            21             EGR/FNA                   2               2
Feb-Mar 1991           2            21             EGRIFNA                   2               2
Jul-Aug 1991           2            16             EGR/FNA                   2               2           PR/PM
Oct-Nov 1991           2            16             EGR/FNA                   2               2
May 1992               2            14             EGR/FNA                   2               2             PR
Dec 1992                1           7                 EGR                    2               2            LC/FP
Oct 1993               2            17             EGR/FNA                   3               2          FP/PR/PM
Jul-Aug 1994           2            13             EGR/OPN                   U               S            FP/LC
Apr 1995               2            13             EGR/FNA                   S               S          LC/FP/PR
Completion              Oct 1995                2           18             EGR/FNA
Key:
EGR        : Power Engineer
FNA        : Financial Analyst
ECN        : Economist
OPN        : Operations Assistant
LC         : Compliance with Legal Covenants
FP         : Financial Performance
PR         : Procurement Progress
PM         : Project Management Performance
12/       Days spent in field are for combined missions and include time spent for other projects as well.
13/       This mission was focussed on following up with GOSL on the principal findings of the KGMP; as such there was
no overall Project Supervision and Form 590 was not prepared.



- 25 -                              Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
SRI LANKA
Completion Mission, Cr. 1933-CE
September 26 - October 13. 1995
Aide Memoire'
1.           Introduction. An IDA power sector mission comprising Messrs. Somin Mukherji,
Financial Analyst and M.P. Manrai, Power Engineer (Consultant), visited Sri Lanka during the period
September 26 to October 13, 1995 to supervise and prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
of Power Distribution and Transmission project, Credit 1933-CE closed on December 31, 1994.
2.           The Project was co-financed by Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF)
(para. 8). The mission would like to thank OECF's Colombo office for providing the mission with an
opportunity to discuss various issues pertaining to Project implementation. The mission would also like
to thank the officials and staff of the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Energy (MIP&E), the Ministry
of Finance (MOF), Board of Investment (BOI), Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Limited (LECO) and
the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) for all the courtesies and assistance extended to the mission. The
aide memoire summarizes the mission's findings and the agreements reached with the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) and CEB regarding the above project. The aide memoire is subject to IDA management's
review and concurrence.
3.           Background.  A credit of SDR 29.2 million (equivalent to US$ 40.5 million) was
approved by the IDA Board on June 23, 1988, and became effective on November 23, 1988. Following
a mid-term review during November 1993, IDA agreed to: (i) a GOSL/CEB request to extend the Credit
Closing date by two years (until December 31, 1996), and (ii) incorporate a Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition equipment (SCADA) in the Project scope subject to GOSL/CEB implementing an agreed
action plan. Because GOSL/CEB did not show any commitment in implementing the above plan, IDA
closed the Credit on December 31, 1994 as originally scheduled. Final disbursement took place on July
6, 1995, at which time a balance of SDR 15.5 million (US$21.5 million) equivalent was cancelled.
Project Components
4.           The project consisted of the following components:
Distribution (Part A of Schedule 2 of the DCA): The rehabilitation and expansion of
distribution systems transferred to the Board from local authorities licensees;
Transmission (Part B of Schedule 2 of the DCA): The construction of about 226 km of
132-kV transmission lines, the reconductoring of about 22 km of 132-kV transmission lines and the
construction and augmentation of related sub-stations;
Institution (Part C of Schedule 2 of the DCA): The strengthening of the Board through:
(a)   the development of a decentralized computerized billing system and upgrading its
management information system;
'I/   Modified version



- 26 -                               Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
(b)   the training of engineers and other staff;
(c)   the dissemination of power related information; and
(d)   improvements in the Board's organization and management.
Technical Assistance (Part D of Schedule 2 of the DCA): The provision of technical
assistance to the Board in:
(a)   the review of the detailed specifications and design of the 132-kV transmission system;
(b)   the review of bidding documents for major transmission contracts; and
(c)   improving the methodology of tariff studies and carrying out of a tariff study.
Study (Part E of Schedule 2 of the DCA): the carrying out of a feasibility study for the
Kalu Ganga multipurpose project.
5.           Restructuring of the Project. In September 1991, GOSL/CEB requested IDA to substitute
the originally appraised 72 km of 132-kV Anuradhapura-Mannar transmission line including two terminal
substations with a new 132-kV substation at Chilaw including a 8 km loop transmission line and to
augment the existing 132-kV transformer capacities at Ratamalana and Pannipitiya. GOSL explained that
it was not possible to implement the works at Mannar due to security reasons and it was necessary to
construct the alternative works to meet the growing load demand. IDA agreed to GOSL's request. The
cost of the new substituted works was almost equal to the original works.
6.           In November 1993, GOSL/CEB requested IDA to extend the Credit Closing date by two
years and finance the SCADA equipment estimated at about US$ 11.0 million under the Credit as there
were US $ savings due to favorable SDR/US$ exchange rate and also because CEB was able to get
cheaper bids for distribution materials compared to the appraisal estimates. As explained above (para 3),
the Credit was closed on the original Closing date of December 31, 1994.
7.    Project Status
Distribution. The fragmentation of responsibility for distribution amongst CEB, LECO
and more than 200 licensees was a major impediment to the efficient operation of the power system.
Therefore, GOSL decided that either CEB or LECO should take over the licensees in a phased manner.
CEB took over all 133 licensees' distribution system as appraised. Necessary legislation for the take over
was approved by GOSL in September 1988 through amendment of the Act. After a detailed survey,
distribution work components were found slightly different from the appraisal estimate. Their details and
indicators for their implementation are included in Annex 1-A.2 All material required for these works
has been procured but the progress in physical implementation has been slow and, as of the end of August
2/    Now included in Part II, Table 5A



- 27 -                              Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
1995, it was only 31.5 %. CEB agreed with the mission to reinforce the construction gangs and complete
the entire work not later than December 31, 1996.
8.           Transmission. IDA financed the construction of a new 132-kV substation at Chilaw and
augmentation of 132-kV substations at Ratmalana and Pannipitiya. These works have been implemented
through supply and erect type of contracts. IDA also financed the supply of materials for 8 km of 132-
kV line, which was constructed by CEB through its force account. Whereas, Pannipitiya substation and
8 km of 132-kV transmission lines were commnissioned and are operational since July and September
1995, respectively, some structure and switch gear erection works are still pending at Ratmalana; in
addition, some defects at Chilaw substation needs to be rectified soon. These works are expected to be
completed by the end of November 1995.
9.           OECF, after deleting some works from its original scope, cofinanced the following
transmission works under OECF Loan SL-P21:
(i)    81 km of new 132-kV double circuit (DC) line from Anuradhapura to Puttalam;
(ii)   62 km of new 132-kV DC line from Embilipitiya to Matara;
(iii)  loop in and out of the existing 132-kV DC line from Polpitiya to Anuradhapura through
Ukuwala (11 km);
(iv)   reconductoring of 22 km of existing 132-kV DC line between Kotugoda and Bolawatte
with a higher size conductor;
(v)    a new 132-kV substation at Matara; and
(vi)   augmentation of 132-kV  substations at Ukuwala, Puttalam, Embilipitiya and
Anuradhapura.
10.           Very recently, in June/July 1995, the contracts for the above OECF financed
transmission lines have been awarded to an Indian firm (at J Yen 1041 million) and for the substations
to a joint venture of firms from South Korea and China (at J Yen 624 million). The construction period
for both these works is about 28 months. The implementation of these works is to be supervised by a
joint venture consultancy firm from Japan and Germany. The status of implementation of the above is
included in Annex 1-B.3 OECF explained that the delays were caused by the late appointment of
consultants and the abnormal time taken to design the works, prepare the bidding documents, invite bids,
evaluate them and finally award the contracts.  OCEF agreed with the mission's view that the
procurement procedures in Sri Lanka are now getting more protracted.
11.          Institutional strengthening
(a)    Decentralized computerized billing system: During Project implementation, it was agreed
that this work would be financed by CEB from its own resources (instead of being
3/    Now included in Part 1, Table 5B



- 28 -                             Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
financed by IDA) and implemented by CEB. The system is being developed in house by
CEB in three stages: I(A), I(B) and II. Under Stage I(A), the billing system will be
developed and implemented in the Western-North province. In Stage I(B) this will be
extended to four more provinces (Western-South, Colombo city, Central and Southern)
and the Head Quarters. Under Stage II, the system will be expanded to include the
remaining five provinces. On completion of all these stages, a totally integrated
decentralized billing system will be in operation. A contract for Stage I(A) was awarded
in October 1995; trial runs are expected by end February 1996. Stage I(B) will be
completed by August 1996, CEB has allocated SLRs. 30 million for this purpose.
Thereafter Stage II will be completed by June 1997 provided the functioning of Stage I
is successful. Recently, CEB has placed the EDP unit under AGM (Planning). The
mission was informed that a proposal has been submitted to the Board for strengthening
of the Unit. The mission recommends that the proposal should be reviewed by the
Board.
(b)    CEB, with assistance of their consultants BEI (UK), completed a training program of
middle level technical officers in January 1990. The duration of the technical assistance
was 3 man months at a cost of PD STG 25,800 plus SLRs. 109,500. In addition, 24
engineers and one accountant were deputed to EGAT Bangkok for training in Project
Management at a cost of US$37,500.
(c)    BEI (UK) was retained as consultants for a period of 3 man months to strengthen CEB's
consumer education unit. The cost was PD STG 20,802 plus SLRs. 132,537. The
consultant's report was made available in May 1989.
(d)    CEB engaged EDF (France) to review its organization structure.  Based on the
consultants' recommendations, CEB reorganized the unit structure of AGMs and DGMs
in April 1991. The consultancy cost was FF 2,557,521 plus SLRs. 657,000.
12.          Technical Assistance
(a)    CEB engaged the services of Ewbank Preece Ltd (UK) to prepare specifications and bid
documents for the 132-kV Anuradhapura-Mannar line at PD. STG. 11,920 plus
SLRs. 13,190. Because the substituted Chilaw, Ratmalana, and Pannipitiya substations
(para 5) were simpler in design, CEB prepared the specifications and bid documents itself
and did not engage consultants.
(b)    CEB engaged EDF (France) to carry out a tariff study. The study report was completed
in August 1990. The consultancy fee was FF 1,498,363 and SLRs.78,000.
Kalu Ganga Multi-purpose Basin Study and Kukule Hydropower Project
13.          CEB engaged a joint venture comprising Nippon Koei (Japan), Lahmeyer International
(Germany) and Electro Watt of Switzerland for preparing a feasibility report and the bidding documents
under a UNDP financed and Bank executed project. A Panel of Experts (POE) was also appointed to
review the Joint Venture's work. The report and bid documents were completed in March 1993.
Subsequently, OECF provided the financing for constructing the project. GOSL recently permitted CEB



- 29 -                               Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
to short list the consultants in accord with the guidelines of OECF. CEB is now inviting proposals from
the short-listed consultants. The project completion is now delayed by two years and is expected to be
completed by 2002.
Disbursement
14.          The credit was closed on December 31, 1994. A grace period was provided for the
submission of withdrawal applications against eligible expenditures incurred before December 31, 1994.
Final disbursement took place on July 5, 1995, at which time an amount of SDR 13.7 million had been
disbursed and the balance of SDR 15.5 million was cancelled. Amounts deposited in the special account
were adjusted against withdrawal proceeds.
CEB Operational Performance
15.          The key project operation indicators and monitoring milestones are included in Annex-2.4
The recalculated systems losses in FY94 were 18.85% compared to 21.46% in 1993. These losses are
recalculated every year by CEB based on review of complaints filed by the consumers alleging incorrect
meter reading and wrong billing. Operation and maintenance cost as a percentage of gross distribution
fixed assets were at 4.6%, 3.7% and 3.5% during FYs 92, 93 and 94 respectively, implying a reducing
trend. CEB explained that it was trying to reduce them still further.
Status of Covenants
16.          Audit reports and audited accounts: The mission was handed over CEB's FY93 (due in
October 1994) audit report along with its audited accounts; thereby implying a delay of eleven months.
Submission of the FY92 audited accounts were also delayed by eleven months. The mission was pleased
to note that owing to appropriate strengthening of the Auditor General's office, the draft FY94 audited
accounts (due in October 1995) are under review now and are expected to be finalized and forwarded to
IDA by end of November 1995; i.e., with a delay of about one month. This would imply a significant
improvement over past performance on timely submission of audited accounts. It is expected that in the
future i.e., starting in FY95, audit reports would be submitted on time. The FY94 audit report on special
accounts and statement of expenditures were submitted in early July 1995, implying a delay of less than
a month.
17.          Compliance with financial covenants: Rate of Return (ROR): In accord with Sec. 4.03(a)
of the Project Agreement, CEB is required to earn a ROR of 8% each year during the entire project
implementation period. In FY93, CEB's attained ROR was 4.6%, and for FY94, this is estimated to be
at 7.8%; implying non-compliance. Debt Service Coverage (D/S) Ratio: As agreed, CEB's D/S ratio
is required to be not less than 1.5 times. CEB has been in compliance with this covenant; the D/S ratio
for FY93 was 1.7 times while for FY94, unaudited accounts indicate this ratio to be at 2.3. The FY94
results will be verified after receipt and analysis of the audited accounts when they are made available.
18.          Accounts receivable:   As agreed, CEB is required to maintain its overall accounts
receivable at a level of not exceeding three months' billings. As of December 1994, CEB's total accounts
4/     Now included in Part II, Table 6



- 30 -                               Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
receivable was at 2.6 months of average monthly billings, thereby indicating compliance with the agreed
covenant.
19.          The status of compliance with covenants is included in Annex-3.5
Operation Plan
20.           The mission discussed and agreed with CEB on Operational Plan (Annex-4)6 for the
operation phase of the project. Since the distribution and transmission works constructed under the
project will be integrated within CEB's overall system, their operation will be subject to normal operation
and maintenance work of CEB. Further, since the Project has not been completed, the Operational Plan
incorporates the completion dates of the various components and provides indicators for monitoring the
Project's operation and its development impacts. Subsequent IDA missions will monitor these indicators.
Implementation Completion Report
21.          In accord with IDA guidelines, after completion of each project, an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) is required. Very recently, IDA has prepared and circulated a final ICR for
the Ninth Power Project (Credit 1736-CE). The mission collected data for the preparation of its section
of ICR for this Project. The mission provided necessary advice and support to CEB for preparing its own
contribution for the ICR. It was agreed that CEB will forward to IDA, through Department of External
Resources, its evaluation report by October 31, 1995.
22.           As indicated earlier in para 3, about 53% of the Credit amount (about US$21.5 million)
has been cancelled. A table comparing the category wise actual expenditure with SAR estimates is
included in Annex-6.7 It will be seen that a major portion of the cancelled amount relates to distribution
work component. The savings accrued due to: (i) favorable SDR/US$ exchange rate, (ii) lower than
estimated bid prices, (iii) procurement of poles and erection of lines by CEB from their own resources.
The delays in implementation took place because CEB's resources were diverted to other priority areas,
including rural electrification. In addition, material is not procured on time and even after procurement,
it remains in the store for a long time before appropriate usage. As identified by CEB in its reports, the
distribution organizational set up requires review and its method to plan, design, procure and implement
the works need to be revamped. A typical procurement process generally undergoes inordinate delays
on account of reviews by a large number of scrutinizing bodies including Tender Evaluation Committee
(TEC), Ministry Tender Board (MTB), Cabinet Appointed Tender Board (CATB) and the Cabinet. Unless
GOSL/CEB overcome these self imposed barriers, disbursement and project implementation will continue
to remain unsatisfactory.
5/     Now included in Appendix A, pages 7-10
6/     Now included in Appendix A, pages 7-10
7/     Now included in Part 11, Table 4



Appendix A
Annex I
Page I of 3
POWER DISTRIBUTION & TRANSMISSION PROJECT
OPERATION PLAN
OPERATIONAL ISSUES                              STRATEGY                       PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                     TIMING
Project Completion
The Project is incomplete whereas material needed  CEB to complete the distribution   i. Completion of LV network               December 1996
for distribution work has been provided, overall  works through force account and to
physical erection is only 31.5 % as of August 95.    expedite the OECF financed       ii. Completion of MV network                      - do -
IDA financed transmission works are almost       transmission works through supply &
commissioned but OECF financed works are way      erect contractors.                  iii. Completion of service connection work        - do -
behind schedule.
iv. Completion of IDA-financed           Energized
augmentation of 132-kV substation at     December 19, 1995
Ratmalana
v. Completion of OECF financed 1 32-kV   End December 1997        W
transmission works                       (originally June 1997)
Project Operation
Facilities constructed under the project should be  The works commissioned under the    i. The plant & equipment register of the  Regularly
operated and maintained efficiently.              project are being integrated within  taken over of distribution systems and
CEB's overall system. A comparison    1 32-kV substations is updated regularly.
will be made with the licensees'
performance to analyze the change in  ii. The depot system maintenance register    Quarterly
quality of supply.                  is updated each quarter.
iii. Maintenance work of substations     Regularly
including scheduled replacement of
transformer oil is carried out regularly.
iv. LV and HV breakdowns of taken over   Monthly
systems are monitored monthly.
v. Training of technical staff is carried out   As per plan
in accord with an approved training plan.



Appendix A
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
OPERATIONAL ISSUES                         STRATEGY                 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                            TIMING
Project Operation
Efficient operation of the system should   CEB will monitor the system losses  i. Monitoring voltage levels at   The monitoring work has started in October 1 995
lead to reduction of distribution system  and variation in voltages in the  40 preselected feeders.       and will be continued for six months and thereafter
losses and restriction in variation of  licensees' system taken over. CEB                                 the results will be analysed before continuing the
voltages. Further addition of 1 32-kV   will select 40 feeders. To monitor                                monitoring.
transformers at the grid substation     losses province-wise, CEB will
should avoid the overloading.           analyze the energy sold with
energy imported. CEB will take     ii. Install 70 and 4 Nos.      Contracts for meters were awarded in October
aggressive steps to detect and stop  import/export meters at 33 &    1995.
pilferage of electrical energy.    1 1-kV respectively for the
above analysis.
iii. Analyze the losses       The analysis will start after import/export meters
province-wise.                mentioned in para. (ii) are installed (September
1 996).                                            t
t.i
iv. Reduce system losses by 1  The losses have been re-calculated by CEB after
% annually.                   the review of incorrect meter readings. Based on
revised information, CEB has calculated losses in
1993 at 21.46% in 1994 at 18.85% and at
18.46% in 1995 (up to June 1995).
v. Reduce operation and       By reducing the staff and amalgamating the routine
maintenance cost              distribution maintenance and rehabilitation of  -
works, CEB is reducing operation and maintenance
cost. The 0 & M cost expressed as a percentage
of gross distribution fixed assets was 4.6%, 3.7%,
and 3.5% during FYs 92, 93 and 94 respectively.
vi. Replace defective meters    There is an ongoing project to identify defective
of bulk supply consumers.     bulk supply meters. It is expected to check all
these meters and replace themn by September
1996.
vii. CEB will set off a special    Unit will be fully operational by early 1996. Also it
unit to detect and stop       is expected that all old and new bulk supply meters
pilferage of electric energy.  would ba sealed with new copper seals by
September 1996 to prevent tampering and
pilferage.



Appendix A
Annex I
Page 3 of 3
OPERATIONAL ISSUES                              STRATEGY                   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                  TIMING
Compliance with Covenants:
CEB should, before the beginning of each fiscal year,  For FY96, the anticipated tariff  Compliance with the revenue    Each year
adjust the tariffs so as to ensure that their revenue    increase of about 10%, effective  covenants
projections are sufficient to earn a rate of return of    beginning of the year, is expected to
8% on current value of its net fixed assets. CEB  enable CEB to meet its revenue
also needs to ensure that its debt service coverage    covenant. CEB will continue with its
ratio is maintained at a minimum of 1.5. CEB's   efforts each year and ensure that the
audited accounts are required to be submitted within  ROR covenant is complied with.
ten months of the end of each fiscal year.
With additional staff deputed by the                                   Each year
AG, audit work of the FY94 accounts  Submission of audited accounts
are expected to be finalized with a  within ten months of the end of
delay of one month.                 each fiscal year
wj



- 34 -                                  Appendix B
Page 1 of 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Power Distribution & Transmission Project
IDA Credit 1933-CE
Borrower's Evaluation'
1.    BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
In June 1988 an IDA Credit 1933-CE amounting to SDR 29.2 million (about US$40.5 million) was
approved by IDA Board for GOSL/CEB to plan, design and implement a Power Distribution
Transmission Project.
B.    Project Obiectives
The principal Project objectives were to meet the ever increasing load demand consequent to rapid rural
electrification and industrialisation. Also, the life styles of the people were rapidly changing due to free
availability of utility electrical appliances for which the supply authority had to cater an adequate supply
of power devoid of frequent failures and maintaining the supply voltage at adequate levels, rendering of
prompt bills to consumers to ensure prompt revenue collection. Also required were adequate and suitable
office accommodation, stores, and warehouse space for areas outside Colombo suburbs due to
decentralisation. In addition, it was also necessary for CEB management, technical and support staff to
acquire new techniques and skills to manage the rapidly increasing functions due to ever increasing
activities within CEB.
C.    Desimn
To achieve the above objectives, the following project components of the project were designed -
(i)    Transmission Works (IDA)
Original proposal was to construct: (a) A double circuit 132-kV line of about 120 km from
Anuradhapura to Mannar, and (b) 2x10 MVA 132/33-kV grid substation with IDA financing of
US$6.8 million at Mannar.
Due to disturbances in the area this proposal was cancelled and in lieu it was proposed to
construct a grid substation at Chilaw with 2x31.5 MVA transformers with a short double circuit
132-kV line of about 8.0 km. Further augmentation of the existing Pannipitiya grid substation
and augmentation and rehabilitation of Ratmalana grid substation was also planned. The total
value of the contract award in 1993 was IJS$6.3 million.
GOSL/CEB approached IDA in September 1991 seeking IDA approval for the substitution. IDA
agreed to this. The transmission component also provided OECF cofinancing for the following
transmission works under Loan SL-P21.
This section is the Borrower's contribution and is not attributable to IDA. A copy of the original letter dated
is in the Project file.



- 35 -                                  Appendix B
Page 2 of 9
The Credit closed on 31st December 1994 before the Chilaw grid substation work was completed
and the remaining erection cost (foreign) was met from CEB funds amounting to SLRs 14.0
million.
(ii)   Transmission Works OECF
Construction of approximately 22 km of 132-kV double circuit transmission line using ZEBRA
conductors to replace the existing 132-kV double circuit COYOTE line between Kotugoda and
Bolawatta.
Construction of approximately 81 km of 132-kV double circuit transmission line using LYNX
conductors between Anuradhapura and Puttalam.
Construction of approximately 62 km of 132-kV double circuit transmission line using LYNX
conductors between Matara and Embilipitiya.
Construction of approximately 11 km of 132-kV double circuit transmission line using LYNX
conductors to make the Polpitiya and Anuradhapura transmission line in-out at Ukuwela.
Construction of a new 132/33-kV 2x31.5 MVA grid substation at Matara.
Augmentation of the grid substation at Ukuwela to 2x31.5 MVA and making the Polpitiya-
Anuradhapura transmission line in-out.
Construction of additional 2 Nos. of 132-kV feeder bays together with a bus section circuit
breaker on the existing single busbar at Puttalam.
Construction of additional 2 Nos. of 132-kV feeder bays at Embilipitiya.
(iii)   Distribution Local Authorities Systems
Studies showed that local authority distribution systems were not maintained in the least and were
treated by the local bodies as only a source of revenue irrespective of the quality of supply
offered to the long suffering consumers. The distribution systems suffered from heavy voltage
drops, frequent failures and large power losses. It was noted that the local authorities were
operating a system which was totally non-economic, and they did not have the finances to effect
any improvements. In addition these licensees owed CEB large amounts of money accumulated
over a long period for energy purchased and CEB was in no position to disconnect the supply as
any disconnection would affect a large number of consumers who invariably would have paid the
licensees for energy used. Thus CEB was placed in a very tricky situation.
The takeover of 133 licensees systems was planned and included under the Power Distribution
and Transmission Project in order to provide a satisfactory service to the consumers as well as
to take into account new growth in the areas.
In general a licensee had a number of 33-kV/LV or I 1-kV/LV substations which were the
property of CEB. The supply was metered on the LV side and the distribution lines from the
substation remained the property of the licensees. These LV lines were haphazardly loaded with
no consideration given to power losses, extended over considerable lengths with no consideration
given to stipulated voltage levels at the consumers terminals and were subject to frequent



- 36 -                                   Appendix B
Page 3 of 9
interruptions due to bad maintenance and inadequate protection provided on the LV lines. In
most cases the protection was non-existent and faults were invariably cleared on the high voltage
side isolating the entire substation out of the system.
It was decided after taking over to completely rehabilitate the system including adding new
substations, upgrading the MV lines from I 1-kV to 33-kV to lower power losses, and transmit
more bulks of power, changing practically all line supports and conductors, service connections,
cut-outs and where necessary the meters. It cannot be over-emphasised that most of the relevant
pieces of equipment mentioned are well over 30 to 40 years old and have surpassed their usual
electrical life expectancy.
Local Authority Electricity Undertakings were not managed in an economical and logical way.
As stated, their prime aim was revenue collection irrespective of the profitability of the system.
Adding new loads to existing lines already having high power losses and operated at low levels
of supply voltage at the consumers terminals would only result in poor efficiency. The logic of
the takeover was to give a satisfactory electricity supply to about 180,000 consumers
(installations).
Also, it was noted that usually licensees charge more from consumers compared to CEB, and it
was thought prudent to have an uniform tariff structure.
(iv)   Civil Works and Buildings
Coming under civil works and buildings, 16 Projects were to be constructed under separate
contracts. All these projects were to have helped in the expansion of the electricity distribution
facilities providing new area engineers' offices and electrical superintendents depot buildings in
different parts of the island.
(v)    Decentralised Computerised Billing System
The CEB billing system was processed on a IBM S/36 mini computer located at the Head Office.
The system's capacity was estimated to serve about 500,000 consumers but due to rapid rural
electrification and other reasons the number of consumers reached 1,000,000 by the year 1988.
Also, the planned drive toward decentralisation was envisaged to afford a better and improved
service and demanded billing to be centralised to the provinces. The Project was intended to set-
up a Head Office/Provincial/Area Computer Network and install a billing system at the provincial
level. Areas could have access to the billing system via the network. Similarly, management
information about billing could be fed to the head office computer from the provinces.
(vi)   Technical Training
Also part of this Credit was disbursed for training and used to finance technical assistance for
tariff study. In this respect a number of senior engineers and accountants, engineers, electrical
superintendents and other staff were sent on various training courses and scholarship studies
which were very beneficial in improving and upgrading the technical, accounting and
management functions of CEB as a whole.
(vii)   Kukule Ganga Hvdro Project and Feasibility Study
A very important project component was the feasibility study of the Kukule Ganga Electric Power
Project. With rapid growth in electricity demand after 1990 (average about 8.5 per cent increase
during the past five years), the generating capacity of the system needed to be expanded to meet



- 37 -                                 Appendix B
Page 4 of 9
this demand. In this context the Kalu Ganga Multi-purpose Project was selected for a feasibility
study in order to investigate comprehensive development of Sri Lanka's major river basin of Kalu
Ganga. However, after detailed investigation it was decided to develop this as a run-of-river
plant of 70 MW and annual energy generation of 305 MW.
D.    Detailed Project Implementation
(i)    Chilaw. Pannipitiva & Ratmalana Grid Substations
The transmission Planning Branch of CEB had studied at length the existing and future system
requirements and recommended the reinforcement of the system. Accordingly, the design
consisted of a 132/33-kV grid substation consisting of 2 132/33-kV 31.5 MVA outdoor
transformers, an indoor 33-kV bus-bar with 8 outgoing 33-kV control panels and associated
switchgear. The double circuit 132-kV overhead transmission line to bring in power to this
substation was a T-off connection from the existing line from Bolawatte to Puttalam and is
approximately 8 km in length using a LYNX conductor.
At Pannipitiya and Ratmalana one transformer each of 31.5 MVA was added by extending the
132-kV bus-bar and effecting modification/additions to the 33-kV side.
(ii)    Distribution System
For the 133 licensees, the design involved primarily the design of MV line networks to feed the
new distribution substations constructed to meet the growing needs. Identification of load centres
and the design of new distribution substations and their location accordingly was possible. The
reconductoring of LV lines with a thicker conductor, conversion of single phase lines to two
phase and three phase as required, and augmentation of distribution and primary substations was
planned.
A major portion of the design work fo LV and MV lines was carried out using computer software
developed by U.S. based consultants.
(iii)   Civil Works
Design for civil works was totally handled by the Civil Works and Buildings Branch of CEB.
The tender documents had to receive the approval of the World Bank. The draft tender
documents for procurement of civil works were revised from the comments given by the World
Bank.
(iv)   Decentralised Computer Billing System
Under the Decentralised Computer Billing Project the exiting billing system was studied and
documented comprehensively by the consultants. This system was used as the basic system.
It was decided to adopt a decentralised processing approach rather than centralised processing
(mainframe) for the proposed system. Further billing software was to run on a Distributed Data
Based Management System (DRDBMS).
Data Entry and query facilities were to be given to the areas whereas bill processing was to be
done at the provincial level. Top management of CEB was to be given summarised information
and the ability to query any details when required.



- 38 -                                  Appendix B
Page 5 of 9
(v)    Kukule Ganga Hydro Project and Feasibility Study
The principal design features of the Kukule Ganga Hydro Electric Project are as follows -
Type                              - run of the river
Full Supply Level (FSL)           - 206 masl.
Minimum Operating Level (MOL)    - 204 masl.
Regulating Capacity of Head Pond    - 1.67 MCM
Catchment Area                    - 312 sq.km.
Annual Average Inflow             - 30.4 M3/Sec.
Power Plant
Head Race Tunnel D/L              - 4.8 M/5,650 m.
High Pressure Tunnel D/L          - 4.8 M/205 m.
Tail Race Tunnel D/L              - 4.8 M/1600 m.
Power House                       - Underground.
Installed Capacity                - 70 MW(2x35 MW).
Normal Tail Water Level           - 21.0 masl.
Performance
Peak Power Discharge              - 47.5 M3/S.
Annual Average Energy
Production                       - 317 GWh.
Inundation Effect
Total headpond surface area       - 88 ha.
(including river surface of 69 ha).
Population Effected
Agricultural Land Submerged       - 15 ha.
E.    Implementation
(i)    Transmission
Chilaw, Pannipitiya and Ratmalana works are handled on a turnkey contract by the Joint Venture
of firms from Germany, Sweden/India and Sri Lanka. The construction period was 24 months,
and the completion date was fixed at June 1995.
132-kV double circuit line was designed and is wholly handled by the transmission construction
units of CEB. The line materials and accessories were supplied by Thai and Indian contractors
who are presently executing transmission projects for CEB. Both the Chilaw grid substation and
the line along with Pannipitiya grid substation were commissioned in earl September 1995
whereas Ratmalana grid substation is expected to be commissioned by the end of November 1995.
(ii)   Takeover of 133 Licensees
The work implemented and the progress are roughly as follows -



- 39 -                                  Appendix B
Page 6 of 9
New MV lines               - 142 km (23% of scope)
New Substations            - 244 Nos. (37% of scope)
New LV lines               - 586 km (65% of scope)
LV Line Rehabilitation     - 676 km (31 % of scope)
Rehabilitation             - 7394 Nos. (10% of scope)
The work is expected to be completed by 31st December 1996. The work is handled by the
provincial units of CEB, utilising CEB's own work force as well as contractors on a short term
basis. CEB's own vehicles and construction equipment procured under other project as well as
under this Project have been utilised for the work. The contractors gangs have been using their
own vehicles, tools, and construction equipment and as a result of the increase in the number of
contractors gangs. It is envisaged to: (a) make available CEB vehicles, tools, and equipment to
contractors gangs, and (b) absorb "Labour only" construction gangs to strengthen CEB's work
force.
The main reasons for the delay are design changes necessary to incorporate the fast developing
loads, civil unrest that causes damage to CEB property (transformers and vehicles), delays in
ordering and the procurement of materials. Private sector construction units for this type of work
were small in number and time was needed for these units to be established and trained.
(iii)   Civil Works
For civil works, tenders were invited for 9 projects, and 5 were awarded by 31st December 1994
(Credit closing date). SLRs. 4,419 million has been paid to the contractors by the Credit closing
date.
The project performance is as follows -
Work is in progress in the construction of 2 area engineer offices, and 3 electrical superintendents
depots. All works are scheduled for completion by 31st December 1995.
(iv)   Decentralised Computer Billing Project was deleted from IDA scope, and CEB decided to
implement it from its own resources.
(v)    Training for personnel was carried out successfully and to the benefit of CEB.
(vi)   Kukule Ganga Hydro Electric Proiect
The contract for the consultancy was made on 24th April 1991 with the Joint Venture team of
foreign consultants consisting from Japan, Switzerland, and Germany. The foreign consultants
were assisted by counterpart staff comprised of CEB engineers and with local consultants from
CEB, etc.
A panel of experts was also appointed to review the consultants work during the feasibility study.
The date of commencement of engineering services was 5th June 1991. The Project ended on
31st March 1993.
(vii)  In November 1993 GOSL/CEB requested IDA, during mid term review of the Project, to extend
the Credit closing date by another year up to December 1996 and to finance SCADA equipment
at an estimated cost of US$11.0 million as there was savings due to a favourable exchange rate
of SDR vs. US dollar and distribution material prices were cheaper than appraisal estimate. IDA
agreed to GOSL/CEB's request subject to GOSL/CEB adhering to the agreed action plan.



- 40 -                                   Appendix B
Page 7 of 9
Because GOSL/CEB did not agree to any tariff increase, an important item of agreed action plan,
IDA closed the Credit on December 1994, as scheduled, without any extensions.
(viii)  The reasons for savings in the project cost are stated in Annex 1.
F.    Operation Experience
(i)    At Pannipitiya and Ratmalana the additional transformers will be connected to the existing 33-kV
bus-bars and as such the operating experience is an enhancement of the existing ones. The
additional transformers at these grid substations will considerably improve the reliability of supply
to a large area outside Colombo. In fact the frequency of breakdowns due to overloading will
be reduced much and improved substantially. Three large local body areas will directly benefit
and at the same time the primary substation at Kirulapone constructed under another project for
the Colombo City will also be able to obtain additional power.
(ii)    The 133 licensees taken over will be integrated with the works in the normal CEB electricity
distribution system, and the same organisational set-up will be responsible for carrying out the
maintenance and operation works. Nevertheless, the maintenance staff, vehicles, etc. will have
to be enhanced proportionally depending on the size of the licensee absorbed into individual
maintenance depots.
(iii)   Civil Works                              - Operation experience not applicable.
(iv)   Decentralised Computerised Billing Proiect   - Not applicable.
(v)    Training                                  - Not applicable.
(vi)   Kukule Ganga Project                      - Not applicable.
G.    Evaluation of Borrower's Perfornance
(i)    Chilaw. Pannipitiya and Ratmalana Grid Substations
There was a delay in effecting the mobilisation advance to the contractor by CEB which caused
a 45 day delay to the Project. Also, on material procurement contract which was divided into
four packages, there were substantial delays due to the contractor disagreeing to supply materials
at his originally offered price.
At the Chilaw grid substation the outgoing feeders from the indoor 33-kV panel will be via single
core 33-kV cables directly connected to overhead lines. Considering the frequent faults due to
uncleared trees on the route of the existing 33-kV lines, and frequent and heavy lightning
encountered in the area, it is inevitable that the insulation properties of these 33-kV cables will,
in the long run, be impaired and weakened.
It is not in the best sense of technicality to accept what is offered. In an area like this it would
have been ideal to have all 33-kV equipment outdoor, though a large land space would have been
required, but the saving in land cannot be compared to a trouble free supply with outdoor 33-kV
switchgear.



- 41 -                                  Appendix B
Page 8 of 10
(ii)   On the subject of taking over 133 licensees, due to non-availability of modern technology and
computer design systems, implementation and identification of system changes work was delayed.
Also, due to civil unrest in the country, resources were shifted by CEB to other priority
activities; thus, implementation was delayed further.
Some of the key lessons learned that may be useful in the future are as follows -
(a)   large projects to be carried out expediently require a change of framework of the present
organisational set-up;
(b)    planning work should be facilitated with modern equipment such as computer systems to
enhance and expedite the planning, design and execution process;
(c)   the training of personnel in modern techniques is necessary; and,
(d)   the retention of trained personnel requires offering incentives.
(iii)   On civil works time was taken to revise CEB conditions of tender and contract to suit the World
Bank Bidding Documents in procurement of works.
(iv)   Decentralised Computerised Billing Project
The World Bank had recommended to evaluate bids on a two stage bidding process.
The evaluation led to problems due to the two stage nature of the bidding and evaluation. When
bids were technically evaluated certain outside members of the TEC challenged the marking
scheme, which was developed from the World Bank's weightages. The evaluation was unduly
delayed as TEC meetings could not be convened due to non-availability of members. There
should be a straightforward method of evaluating bids and persons too busy in other fields should
not be appointed members of a TEC. In the future, frequent monitoring of a TEC is necessary
and a target date should be given to complete evaluation. In this particular case, CEB decided
to provide the decentralised computerised billing system from its own resources.
(v)    Training
In this respect, the borrower was able to fully make use of the credit facilities to train a large
number of officers in fields useful to CEB. The trainees have shown the benefits of the training
received by way of better management of the utility.
(vi)   Kukule Ganga Hydro Electric Project
The appointment of a panel of experts to review the consultants study at various stages has lead
to a more robust layout of the power plant thereby saving costs on the overall project. They have
also pointed out various technical aspects related to the project which led to a better design.
However, in certain instances there were few differences of opinion between the consultants and
the panel of experts. The appointment of POE however, was very useful to CEB. It may be
advisable to appoint a POE for all major projects that are complex in nature.



- 42 -                                  Appendix B
Page 9 of 9
H.    Evaluation of Bank Performance
There were no cash flow problems to meet contractors' and other bills. CEB is thankful for the credit
facilities extended by the Bank and their very strict control over disbursement. The borrower experienced
very strict supervision and adhered to rules of the Bank in procurement.
One of the key lessons learned in negotiating with the Bank is that communication between banks and the
borrower is protracted. Communication should be fast and responses quick for speedy decisions and
implementation. For future projects the following suggestions should be taken seriously:
(i)   the Bank should have a permanent representative in each country of operation for on-going
supervision/decision making;
(ii)   the representative should be responsible for all correspondence and documents; and,
(iii)  the representative should identify all corrective measures and suggest action while regularly
monitoring the project.
Plan for Operational Phase of the Project.
(i)    Installation Arrangements
The works and services that are to be completed and commissioned under this Project will be
integrated with the works in the normal CEB system and the same organisational set-up will be
responsible for carrying out the maintenance and operation of the works.
The project components that integrate with the CEB distribution system will be operated using
CEB's established set comprising A.G.M. (Distribution & Customer Services), D.G.M. in charge
of provinces, Area Engineer and finally to the Depot Level Manager by Electrical
Superintendents.
The details of all plant and equipment are maintained in a plant and equipment register by each
maintenance depot. The components on which regular maintenance has to be carried out are
entered in a depot system maintenance register.
Work is planned using schedules of tasks, frequencies, standard gang compositions and work
standards taking remedial action regarding any deficiencies of staff observed using long
established set-up in CEB which has been functioning satisfactorily.
Progress of maintenance work and system operations are carefully recorded and maintained; there
is an established reporting system to furnish management information reports to all those who are
in need of these reports and on which important decision making has to be made.
(ii)   Performance Indicators
It is suggested that performance indicators, such as the reduction in technical power loss in
distribution networks, reduction in the variation of voltage between peak and off-peak times, and
reduction of system outages per month are established. By monitoring them over a period of 3
years the performance of the project can be assessed.



- 43 -                                 Appendix B
Annex 1
Reasons for Savngs in the Project Cost
Part A - Distribution
The main reasons attributed is due to the slow process of drawing up specification for ordering of materials.
Furthermore, there were savings due to the favourable exchange rate of SDR versus US$. Under Civil Works
it was advised by the World Bank that only works which could be constructed by the Credit closing date would
be financed.
Part B - Transmission Systems
It is to be noted that under this item originally the Project scope covered a 120km double circuit 132-kV line from
Anuradhapura to Mannar with a 2x10 MVA 132/33-kV grid substation.
Due to unstable conditions in the area, this project was cancelled and in place it was planned to construct a 2x31.5
MVA 132/33-kV grid substation at Chilaw and a short 8.0km 132-kV double circuit line. Hence, the undisbursed
balance is due to change in scope of the work, and not due to any under-utilisation. Under the OECF scope,
transmission works located in the Northern province were deleted from the project.
Part C - Decentralised Computer Billing
The undisbursed balance is due to financing of the project from CEB's own funds instead of IDA funds.
Part D - Consultancy. & Training
This component consisted of technical assistance through consultancy services for project implementation support,
institution development assistance, feasibility studies as well as for training of CEB staff in utility management.
The amount was well spent.



-44-
SRI LANKA                                                                            Appendix C
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD                                                                             Page 1 of 3
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT (CR. 1933-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Income Statemients
SLRS. MILLION
FISCAL YEAR ENDING                    1987             1088            1989            1990             1991            1992              1993               1994
DECEMBER 31                        SAR    ACT.   SMSAR    ACT.    S                                                                            A.    S           A
KWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)           2707   2701    3004   2799    3202   28158    3415   3145    3657   3378    38J0    3539            4204     4204    4535       4363
KVYh SOLD (RMLUONS)                Z248   2258   2538   2370   2735   2354    2954    2608    3182   2742    3429    2869              3700     3270    3991       3585
SYSTEM LOSS (%)                       17      16      16      1s      14      18      13      17      13      19       12       19       12       22        12       18
AVE. TARIFF/KWh SOLD(CENTS)         1.48    1.47    1.76    1.70    1.97    1.66    2.21    2.15    2.21    2.24    227       2.32     2.43      2.57     2.43     3.44
OPERATING REVENUE
SALES OF ELECTRICITY                3327   3319    44e6   4018    5396   3918    6521    5809    7024   6144    7796    66f53          9001     839s    9709    12256
FUELSURCHARGE                        841   1259      147    236      360     60      610      24     671    502       442    1727       825      366    1425        958
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES             123    127      129    141      136    263      142     561     15o   1008       157     594       16s     1202      173       859
OTHER REVENUE                        2J9    364      133    22        48    143       2e      70      34      64       55      96       146        is     308       549
TOTALOPERATING REVENUES             4580   5069    4875   4824    5941   4384    7299    6264    78t78   7715    8450    9070    10137          9979   11615    14Uf
OPERATING EXPENSES
FUEL COST                            81e   1223      143    229      350     so      592      24     651    479       429    1645       801      349     1383       912
OPERATION   MAINTENANCE              501    528      623    724      688    825      770    1274     882   1698    1117    1631        1293     1U82    1366       1989
TURNOVERTAX                          124    137      138    128      172    119      213     169     230    199       247     366       294      438      333      6e1
ADMINISTRATION & OTHER               183    351      225    345      248    508      272     529     299    421       329     611       362      741      399       843
DEPRECIATION                        1003    802    116    1038    1331   1307    1491    1397    1765   2064    23          2134     258s      2875    2732      332
TOTAL OPERAnNG EXPENSES             2627   3041    2297   2464   2788   2619    3339    3393    38t28   4881    4356    6589           5336     628s    6213       7767
NET OPERATING INCOME                1953   2028    2578   2160   3153   1565    3959   2871    4050   2857    4095    2481             4801     3694    5402      65ss
INT.CHARGEDTOOPERATIONS             1026    813    1300    979    1717    640    2173    1200   2487   2457    2545    2111           2507      2345    2540      2741
INCOME                               927   1215    1278   1181    1430    925    17Jf6   1671    1583    400    1550          370     2294      1349    2862      4114
LESS: EXP.IN FEAS.STUDIES           1108       0       0     45       30     18        0      1 7      _       _        0      95         0       85        0       305
NETPROFIT                            819   1215    1218   1136    1406    907    17Wt   16s4    15s3    393    1550           275     2294      1264    2t862     3809
RATE OF RETURN ON AV.NET
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION            8.s    8.7      9.8    7.9    10.7    5.1    12.3       7.7    10.5    6.4       8.o     4.1       8.1      4.e      8.9       7.9
Note: The aoal. for fhI padod FYJ7s63 we taken from ihi ICR for Cr. 1736-CE and updated for FY94.



-45-
SRI LANKA                                                                             Appendix C
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD                                                                               Page 2 of 3
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT (CR. 1933-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Balance Sheets
SLRS. MILUON
FISCAL YEAR ENDED                      1987             1988             1989            1990             1991            1992              1993               1994
DECEMBER 31                        SAR   | ACT.   SAR  F ACT,   S    | AC
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                35937   35884   41940  43220  46n70  49028  52643  65516   65003  72670   83900   106556    88478   122449   93669  133637
LESS: CUM.DEPRECIATION              8830    8789   10661   11367   12831   13789   14754   19312   17109  22737   19941    26645    22786    31622   25814   36950
NET FIXED ASSETS                  27107  27095   31279  31853  34139  35239  37889  46204   47894  49933   63959    79911    65692    90827   67855   96687
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS            5545    4996    9744   9534   15823  15030  20419  23134   15395  27773    2571            6120      2989     3832    4277    4919
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                 32652   32091   41023  41387  49962  50269  58308  69338  63289  77706   66530    88031    68681    94659   72132  101605
INVESTMENTS                         204      219     271     295     305      325     321     340     331     340      341      347       351      485      361      635
INSURANCE ESCR                       141     147     183     181     230      188    282      217      347    271      431       332      520       435     613      553
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                1917   2518      743    1396     227      841     292     428     379    692       724       151     2187      1107    3970    5688
INVENTORIES                         1078    1178    1049   1651    1169   2030    1316   2210    1625   2414    2098           2698      2212     2512    2342    3048
ACCOUNTS RECEI                      1042    1093    1153    1678    1439    1497    1783    1600    1924    1416    2060        1919     2457     2300    2783    2766
OTHER RECEIVAB                       789    2621     909   3435      716   2775       527   2202      580   2201       638     3054       701      1288      772    2234
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                4826    7410    3854    8160    3551    7143    3918    6440    4508   6723    5520         7822     7557     7207    9867   13735
TOTAL ASSETS                      37823   39867  45331  50023  54048  57926   62829   76335  68475  85040   72822    94532    77109   102786   82973  116528
EQUITY AND LIABILrITES
EQUITY
EQUITY                             7565    7333    7723   8038    8304   8047    8784    8048    9235   84W8    9884           9155    10540      9907   11130   10620
CONSUMERS' CON                     2345    2125   2793   2284   3282   3079    3745    3412    4242   4102    4797             4561      5403     5850    6067    6824
REVALUATION SU                    10141   10777   12174  158641   14051   18843   15758  29403   17273  33074   18950    37642    19781    44829   20635   51171
RETAINED EARNIN                    6081    6472    7299   7623    8706    8513  10492   10152   12074  10532   13824    10808    15918    11598   18779   15381
TOTALEQUITY                       26132  26707  29989  33584   34342  38482   38779  51015   42824  56176   47255    62166    51642    72184   56611   83996
LONGTERMDEBT                       10234   10834   137sB   13636   18044  16617  22238   20836   23586  24049   23169    24753    22780    25233   23412   25311
CURRENT LIABIluTI                   1455   2326    1555   2803    1662   2827    1813    4484   20e4   4814    2397            7613      2685     5369    2948    7220
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES      37821   39867   45330  50023  54048  57926  62830   76335  68474  85040   72821    94532    77107   102786   82971  118528
EUrTY AS % OF DEBT+EQUITY             72      71      6s      71      66       71      64      71      64      70       67       72        69       74       71       77
DEBT AS % OF DEBT+EQUITY             28       29      31      29      34      29       36      29      36      30       33       28        31       26       29       21
CURRENT RATIO                        3.3     3.2     2.5      2.9     2.1     2.5     2.2      1.4     2.2     1.4     2.3       1.0      2.8       1.3      3.3      1.9



-46-
SRI LANKA                                                                             Appendix C
CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD                                                                               Page 3 of 3
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT (CR. 1933-CE)
IMvPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
SLRS. MILLION
1987             1988            1989             1990            1991             1992              1993               1994
SA        C. SR|ASAR              AR  |ACT    SAR  |ACT.   SR|AT                   A         C        A        C.      SR|AT
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES
NET INCOME AVAILABLE                1953    2028   2578   2160    3153    1565    3959   2871    4050   2857    4095            2481     4801      3694    5402    6855
ADD:DEPRECLATION                    1003     802    1168    1077    1331    1307    1491    1364    1765   2064    2234         2136     2586     2915    2732    3362
LESS: EXP.IN FEAS.STUDIES            108       0      60      45       30      18       0      17        0       7       0        95        0        85        0     305
INT. FUNDS GENERATED               2848    2830    3686   3192    4454   2554    5450    4218    5815   4914    6329            4522     7387     6524    8134    9912
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS                 315      82     158    703      507       11     406        1    377      420     575       687      582       751      590     713
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS                  365     145     448     159      489    795      463     332     496    690       555       459      607      1289      663     973
TOTAL BORROWINGS                    2260   2694    4125   3165    4842   3354    4779    4597    1917    3620    1262           2144     1334       712    2498    1720
TOTALSOURCES OF FUNDS               5788    5751    8417   7219   10292   7014   11098    9148    8605   9644    8721           7812     9910      9276   11885   13318
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
TOTAL INV. PROGRAM                  5236    4119    7508   5470    8318   6988    8057    9872    5156   6760    3725           5891     3831     4326    5328    3967
OTHERINVESTMENTS                      10      25      67      76       34      30      16      16       10       0      10         7       10       125       10     150
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                   5246    4144    7575   5546    8352   7018    8073    9S88    5166   6760    3735          5898      3841     4451     5338    4117
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                            1026     813    1300     979    1717    640    2173    1200    2467   2457    2545         2111      2507     2345    2540    2741
AMORTIZATION                         563     396     574     364      584     373     585     378     569    407    1679        1440     1723      1474    1867    1642
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                  1589    1209    1874    1343    2301    1013   2758    1578    3036   2864    4Z24          3551     4230      3819    4407    4383
INSURANCE ESCROWACCT                  36      46      42      57      47      25       53      41      65      67       84       63        88       108      94      144
CH.IN WORKING CAPrTAL
CASH INCREASE                      -1953   -1351   -1174   -1122    -516    -555       65    -413       87    264      345      -541     1463       956    1783    4580
OTHER THAN CASH INC.                 870    1702     101    1395      107   -4W8      151   -1947     251    -311      333    -1159       288       -58     263       94
NET INCREASE                       -1083     351   -1073    273    -409   -1041       216   -2360     338      *47     678    -1700      1751       898    2046    4675
TOTALAPPLICATIONS OF FUNDS          5788    5750    8418   7219   10291    7015   11100    9147    8605    9644    8721        7812      9910     9276   11885   13318
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                1.8     2.3      2.0     2.4     1.9    2.8      2.0     2.7      1.9     1.7      1.5      1.3       1.7      1.7      1.8      2.3
Note: During FY93, Rs. 731 million was transferred from Current Liabilities to Long Term Debts.



-47-                             Appendix D
Page 1 of 1
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return
(SL Rs. Million)
Capital     Operations    Benefits    Balance
Year     Cost      & Maintenance
1987          0.0            0.0         0.0        0.0
1988       4424.8          126.6       364.4    -4187.0
1989        5101.4         143.2      -121.1    -5365.6
1990        5939.8         328.5      550.5    -5717.7
1991        3747.6         498.3       512.9    -3733.0
1992        2923.9         487.5       479.7    -2931.8
1993        1589.7         409.9      1025.2     -974.4
1994        1600.9         376.4      3199.0     1221.7
1995                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
1996                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
1997                       736.6     4290.8      3554.2
1998                       736.6     4290.8      3554.2
1999                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2000                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2001                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2002                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2003                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2004                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2005                        736.6     4290.8     3554.2
2006                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2007                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2008                        736.6     4290.8     3554.2
2009                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2010                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2011                        736.6     4290.8     3554.2
2012                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2013                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2014                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2015                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2016                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2017                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2018                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2019                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2020                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2021                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2022                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2023                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
2024                       736.6      4290.8     3554.2
Economic Rate of Return:          10.2%
Note: Upto FY93, the analysis uses the same inputs as used for the
ICR of Cr. 1736-CE and updates for FY94



SRI LANKA                                                                        Ap iendix E
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT (CR. 1933-CE)                                                         Page I of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Changes in Project Scope
Between Credit Effectiveness (1988) anid closure (1994), the scope of the Project (finaniced by the Credit) was chianged several times. The details of these changes are
summarized below:
Project scope as appraisedl      _        Project scope as amenlded in     Project scope as restructured    Project scope as of Credit closure in December 1994
Septemlber 1991                 in October 1993
A.      DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT                      No change                        No change                        No change; following Project closure, CEB is carrying out
necessary works to comnplete the implementation; these are
Investments related to CEB's expenditures in                                                                          being funded from its own resources. All material required
rehabilitating, developing and expanding distribution                                                                 lor implementatioll has been procured but progress in
systems to be taken over from 133 licenseces                                                                          implementation has been slow and as of the end of August
1995, it was only 31.5%. Detailed status of ongoing
distribution works is included in Part 11, Table SA.
B. TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
Investnents related to CEB's expenditures in:
(i)   Construction of about 230 km of1 132-kV
transmission line as under:
(a) in and out of Polipitiya-Anuradhpura 132-kV   (a) No change                  (a) No change                   (a) No change
line at Ukuwela substation (7 km)
(b) Anuradhpura-Mannar (72km)                  (b) dropped                      (b) dropped                      (b) dropped
(c) Kanikesanithurai-Chunnakam (9 kin)         (c) No change                     (c) No change                   (c) No change
(d) Puttalam-Anuradhpura (80 ksin)             (d) No change                    (d) No change                    (d) No change
(e) Embilipitiya-Matara (62 km)               (e) No change                     (e) No change                    (e) No change
(ii)  Reconductoring of 150 km of 132-kV lines      (ii) No change                   (ii) No change                   (ii) No change
(iii) Construction of new 132/33-kV substations at:
(a) Mannar                                    (a) dropped                       (a) droped                       (a) dropped
(b) Kankesanthurai                            (b) No change                     (b) No change                    (b) No change
(c) Matara                                    (c) No change                     (c) No change                   (c) No change
added (d) Chilaw substation with   (d) No change                  (d) No change
8 km of loop line



Appendix E
Page 2 of 2
Project scope as appraised              Project scope as amenided in     Project scope as restructured   Project scope as of:Creditclosure iiDeceijber 1994:
Ptojct s .op as pprasedSeptemiber 1991                            in October 1993                                                       ...... 
(iv) Augmentationi of existing 132/33-kV substations
at:
(a) Ukuwela                                  (a) No change                    (a) No chanige                 (a) No change
(b) Kiliiochiciii                            (b) No change                    (b) No change                  (b) No change
(c) Anuradhpura                              (c) No change                    (c) No change                  (c) No change
(d) Puttalam                                 (d) No change                    (d) No change                  (d) No change
added (e) two substations at    (e) No change                   (e) No change
Ratmalana and Panripitiya
Detailed status of the ongoing transmission works is included
in Part 11, Table 5B
C.  CONSULTING SERVICES TO:
(i)  develop a decentralized computerized billiig  (i) No change                   (i) dropped; CEB decided to    (i) dropped
system and a management itifonnationi system                                  carry out this study from their
(MIS);                                                                        own resources
(ii)  assist CEB in the preparation ol the detaiiled  (ii) No change               (ii) No change                 (ii) No change
specirications and design ol tlie 132-kV
transmission systems of B(i) above and
preparation of the bidding documents for the
major transmission. contracts;
(iii) assist CEB in carrying out a tarilf smudy;  (iii) No change                  (iii) No cliange               (iii) No change; study completed in December 1990
(iv) assist in the development of a training program  (iv) No chiange              (iv) No change                 (iv) No change; trairning carried out in January 1990.
for middle level technical officers;
(v) assist in the establishmeint of a consumer relations  (v) No change            (v) No change                  (v) No change; constultaits' report finalized in May 1989
unit; and
(vi) assist in monitoring the continucd           (vi) No change                   (vi) No changc                 (vi) No change, study completed in May 1991
iniplementation of CEB's new organizational
structure.
D.  FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR THE KALU                No change                        No change                      The study was completed in March 1993.
GANGA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
E. Added component to          Project closed in December 1994 and, as such, this component
finance SCADA equipment        could not be financed



-50-                                              Appendix F
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LOCAL AUTHORITY ELECTRICITY SCHEMES TAKEN
(Ref. May No. IBRD 27602)
Local Authority Scheme                       Takeover Date           Total LT        Number of Consumers        Maximum
Line Length                                 Demand
(km)                                       (kW)
I Madampe                                      05/17/89                     10.80            898                  244
2 Wennappuwa                                   05/24/89                     16.30            1490                 538
3 Kamalpattu                                   05/24/89                      0.00            390                  310
4 Lunuwila                                     05/24/89                      8.47            368                  100
5 Dankotuwa                                    05/24/89                     16.99            985                  293
6 Bope                                         06/22/89                     23.25            1781                 678
7 Lunugala                                     06/29/89                      5.30            382                  100
8 Passara                                      06/29/89                       7.6            813                  195
9 Ninthavur                                    08/08/89                     23.00           1741                  640
10 Yatakalanpattuwa                            08/08/89                     27.65            1524                 366
11 Nattandiya                                  08/08/89                      11.45           614                  164
12 Samanthurai                                 08/15/89                      30.23           1867                 480
13 Akkaraipattu                                 10/11/89                     38.70           2860                 929
14 Andiambalama                                 10/31/89                    24.30            892                  241
15 Katana                                       10/31/89                     37.35           1595                 541
16 Kochchikade                                  11/01/89                    24.03            1755                 383
17 Henerathgoda                                 11/02/89                    23.95            979                  227
18 Aluthgamperuwa                               11/02/89                     36.50           2354                 663
19 Habaraduwa                                   11/07/89                     10.12           819                  232
20 Ahangama                                     11/07/89                     10.45            819                 335
21 Karavaku N.                                  11/08/89                     29.28           1752                 507
22 Kalmunai                                     11/08/89                     55.42           4225                 1376
23 Karavaku S.                                  11/08/89                     21.98           1944                  520
24 Mulleriyawa                                  11/09/89                     13.56           1247                 307
25 Kattankudy                                   11/14/89                     46.55           4389                 892
26 Devinuwara                                   11/14/89                     10.76           1056                 219
27 Addalaichenai                                11/15/89                     13.40           411                  144
28 Kaduwela                                     11/16/89                     48.75           3870                 1100
29 Galewela                                     11/23/89                      7.69            553                 170
30 Kuruwita                                     11/30/89                      9.00           718                  156
31 Homagama                                     12/07/89                     34.56           2513                 786
32 Kottawa                                      12/07/89                     12.21           1314                 445



-51-                                           Appendix F
Page 2 of 4
Local Authority Scheme                     Takeover Date          Total LT        Number of Consumers      Maximum
Line Length                               Demand
(km)                                     (kW)
33 Meegoda                                    12/07/89                    7.58           1105                 0
34 Kadugannawa UC                            01/16/90                    24.90           2142                530
35 Galagedara                                01/16/90                     8.98           646                  180
36 Kalpitiya                                 01/16/90                    28.45           506                 165
37 Pelmadulla                                02/15/90                    24.50           1827                600
38 Polonnaruwa                               02/20/90                    25.95           1862                976
39 Hingurakgoda                              03/06/90                    13.06           953                 237
40 Kahawatta                                 04/24/90                     9.50           794                 305
41 Atakalanpanna                             04/24/90                    10.00           376                  132
42 Rakwana                                   04/24/90                     7.80           618                  160
43 Deraniyagala                               05/29/90                    6.00           449                  110
44 Dambadeniya                                05/31/90                    11.40          612                  174
45 Narammala                                 05/31/90                    30.40           1045                411
46 Alawwa                                    05/31/90                    17.45           767                 220
47 Dodangaslanda                             05/31/90                    17.65           281                  80
48 Egodapotha-Nittambuwa                     06/28/90                    61.15           2023                763
49 Kalagedihena                              06/28/90                    16.93           855                 322
50 Bemmulla                                  06/28/90                    24.54           594                 170
51 Veyangoda                                 06/28/90                    32.81           1934                599
52 Mudunakade                                07/26/90                    10.85           417                 116
53 Moragolla                                 07/26/90                     6.64           534                  79
54 Polgahawela                               07/26/90                    16.60           1487                403
55 Pothuhera                                 07/26/90                     8.60           467                 180
56 Udugaha                                   07/26/90                    37.75           805                 340
57 Mirigama                                  07/26/90                    32.15           1509                446
58 Hanwella Udugahapattu                     07/26/90                    10.73           601                 233
59 Hanwella Peruwa                           07/26/90                     6.86           1105                260
60 Padukka                                   07/26/90                    19.72           1209                374
61 Tangalle UC                               07/30/90                    18.30           1606                330
62 Badulla MC                                08/15/90                    78.91           6438                2410
63 Dimbula-Kotagala                          08/30/90                    14.11           1425                458
64 Kandapola                                 08/30/90                    28.22           723                 210
65 Chilaw UC                                 08/30/90                    33.40           4247                1567
66 Elpitiya                                  08/30/90                    34.20           1573                429
67 Galigamuwa                                08/30/90                     3.90           208                  67
68 Otharagandolaha Dewalagama                08/30/90                    16.20           338                 118



-52-                                              Appendix F
Page 3 of 4
Local Authority Scheme                      Takeover Date           Total LT        Number of Consumers       Maximum
Line Length                                 Demand
(km)                                      (kM)
69 Piliyandala                                 08/30/90                    31.15            3686                1282
70 Dodangoda                                   08/30/90                     33.70           1243                 354
71 Beliatta                                    08/31/90                    22.14            814                  232
72 Bentota                                     09/11/90                     21.98           1206                 502
73 Adhikaripattu-Bandaragama                   09/25/90                     60.70           2995                 845
74 Thalpitibadda-Panadura                      09/25/90                     33.70           1690                 528
75 Ambagamuwa N. Ginigathhena                  09/27/90                      9.03           1039                 248
76 Ambagamuwa S. Maskeliya                     09/27/90                      6.97           731                  213
77 Yatiyantota                                 10/09/90                      7.71           455                  148
78 Dummalasurity                               10/23/90                     24.35           677                  195
79 Udabowala                                   10/30/90                     12.00           260                  135
80 Ampitiya Gandahaya                          10/30/90                    35.84           2145                  742
81 Kuliyapitiya UC                             10/30/90                    28.45           2038                  717
82 Akuressa                                    10/30/90                     16.44           1048                 296
83 Kandepella Haldummulla                      10/30/90                      4.32           386                  90
84 Koslanda                                    10/30/90                      5.75           265                  60
85 Divulapitiya                                10/30/90                    25.85            1165                 826
86 Raigam Udugahapattu                         10/30/90                     16.30           637                  232
87 Trincomalee UC                              11/15/90                    47.60           3900                 2290
88 Matugama                                    11/27/90                    43.21            1977                 547
89 Putuhapuwa Teldeniya                        11/29/90                      1.92           104                  45
90 Ragala halganoya-Udapussellawa              11/29/90                      4.45           745                  230
91 Puttalam UC                                 11/29/90                    44.80           4459                 1420
92 Wellawa                                     11/29/90                     10.40           694                 237
93 Boyagane-Thiranaganddahaya                  11/29/90                      7.85           194                  80
94 Tissamaharama                               11/29/90                    22.16            949                  512
95 Warakapola                                  11/29/90                     16.50           1014                410
96 Agalawatte                                  11/29/90                     10.46           589                  96
97 Ganaihala-Meetalawa                         12/18/90                     7.30            260                  96
98 Rattota                                     12/20/90                     5.19            501                  139
99 Maho                                        12/20/90                     9.55            602                  175
100 Madurawala-Anguruwatota                    12/20/90                    11.62            556                 153
101 Diyatilaka                                 12/28/90                    17.75            865                 217
102 Pussellawa                                 01/24/91                     7.63            710                 188



-53                                           &Apendix F
Page 4 of 4
Local Authority Scheme                      Takeover Date          Total LT        Number of Consumera      Maximum
Line Length                                Demand
(km)                                     (kO)
103 Seethawakapura UC                         01/24/91                    27.73           1405                 527
104 Kegalle UC                                01/29/91                    54.00           3132                 939
105 Wariyapola                                01/30/91                    64.73            798                 301
106 Nikaweratiya                              02/26/91                    17.30            776                 352
107 Baddegama                                 02/26/91                    19.18            683                 206
108 Niwithigala                               02/27/91                    15.10            582                 200
109 Alawatugoda                               02/28/91                    46.08           2743                 980
110 Ukuwela-Matale                            03/26/91                    14.85            822                 353
111 Arambekade-Harispattuwa                   03/28/91                    15.17            733                 185
112 Barigama-Werellagama                      03/28/91                     9.71           767                  530
113 Ibbagamuwa                                03/28/91                    14.52            660                 173
114 Deniyaya                                  03/28/91                     5.09            520                 116
115 Dehiowita                                 03/28/91                    11.02           787                  239
116 Batugoda                                  04/30/91                    27.00           1505                 840
117 Mawathagama-Pilassa                       04/30/91                    18.70            829                 229
118 Hamangalla-Giriulla                       04/30/91                    32.67           857                  225
119 Markandura-Gonawila                       04/30/91                    30.05            872                 259
120 Pannala                                   04/30/91                    20.75            629                 210
121 Ambalantota                               04/30/91                    39.50           1403                 524
122 Welimada                                  05/02/91                    29.24           1114                 443
123 Pundaluoya                                05/29/91                     5.30           475                  128
124 Menikhinna                                05/30/91                    13.07           1708                 340
125 Kundasale                                 05/31/91                    13.57            910                 200
126 Hali-Ela                                  06/18/91                     9.74            696                 212
127 Kekirawa                                  06/27/91                    43.68           260                  258
128 Horana UC                                 06/27/91                    27.50           2499                 761
129 Anuradhapura UC                           07/15/91                   158.64           6848                3624
130 Vavuniya UC                               11/06/91                    50.80           3055                1620
131 Eravur-Town                               12/06/91                    10.98           2670                 600
132 Ruwanwella                                01/28/92                    18.87           966                  325
133 Mawanella                                 03/24/92                    42.09           2627                 884
Totals                                                                  3,017.19         177,929             59,698






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27602
-Tu  8bo                                                     9v81                                                        8
SRI LANKA
POWER DISTRIBUTION AND
TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Jaffna
N '   x                                                     REFERENCE NUMBER OF THE UCENSEE TAKEN OVER
I _)    (SEE APPENDIX F)
- /                        k                                                      IDA FINANCED TRANSMISSON LINES
-                                                                               * > >  @  IDA FINANCED SUBSTATIONS
K,lm6d,ch, 0        C                                             OECF FINANCED TRANSMISSON LINES
I - *-                                          0       OECF FINANCED SUBSTATIONS
0 MuaII6ttvv             0      TOWNS
*      PROVINCE CAPITALS
L__- - __                      .' -, /'N
NATIONAL CAPITAL
- I,  , . ~ ' '                                RIVERS
9  ManZr /    /                  Ns                                   WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS                     9.
_ 9                       9anr         
O               1       -                                                              RESERVOIRS
I                                               - -- . _ _ _ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
_ _ _ _ S   <   !   ~   B . _  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,   VavuniyaO        'i
C  ~      ,.0
-                                                                                     0    10   20   30   40   50
KILOMETERS
3NORTH    A
/~~~~~~~~~~Z N ETPAi  j
81k  132kvDJC DAnradhapvm@                                         P, <Ov ! N
A.uradh p-n                          
P u ra    n      \             Nachc (.y aga n
-        0                                 C G-= . 
S   e   ,mbvtegcom    EppvaIol                                          1 ' J 
-SS (9 <           s           GamewaO **altgYaGaha              Palonno.vwa3) W.lkando- Sdhdhapvra
Potion,                                       /                                MonardpiIiyo
ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-N (0) ' "     )IR
Z        11km ;312kvD/C        _;   Kancya            >  t   \ ~~~andranuwrarER
GSS                          0 Gdkwpqom~~             ~~~~~~ BoouoOtaoan
Pol-                                                        0~~~~~~~- JeieU  r   ~0Baiav
___      PoIp.trya                        I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bticl
New 132kv Line     Z                                      Ukumelca I                        I.                                RCV' t' 
(Topped hrom e.."tm                     -     I '                                             \..
132kvT,. line)
Madam   (Ch,Iaw(                                                                 UkOwela               '.          j                          2
22km1l32k D/C             W                                                      Ukume a                                      AmparaO            2
Kotogoda                                       '                                  '0
Bc- tt,O                                                   -            S         @!
>apar            N) aoua><                                                          UV 
7-npbyGS&                                 \,.S-      ('0                                                                                                7'rA   ;t"V   /  -     R'lt
-7'~~~~~~ 7  ,. e                           'X                  
(i)  \ . . J   ss   3     R~~~~Eilipdyo i    B .d.11' 
COLOMBO                                     '\ 2o        3  '         '      Ba.I. \
/3    , N ) ;  0 MonarF 0la
Ralmol... GSS                2                                                   
~~WN,9  ~    ~     (      0                 - e                                h  oneiscosoeoinaosodn hif   B
R0 .p8l                                              UVA
Pan-ipitiya GSS             13                            v                                   PRown CE
Kalulara 0                       FR,.   I~.
GSS
L~~~~                      ~      ~~~         ~~~~~      BaiIpiry N%GS  Mar  -m;idy          rsmto cpne0f-ath=2  foy5h>0 
Pn1)VI".Dl ~   2EU 1Im-antota
GalIe0                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th.. b-ondoios, -oor, denomi-ono-;onod th.rnkrmn
6'                              II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ 62km 132k6 0/C          ,ho- - Anhima.pd  rtuimp~l,  on. (part ~(The World B.nA   6-
13   *  Mtara              Oou,, = y jodg~oro  I.e l6wol~,  f-ooy Wie.o-Y, -r -Iy
New GSS Maaa                        Eklpily               no-eeto  cemoeo ok oo/V.
FEBRUARY 1996









o'H
ID  c
Z            4~~~~~~F-
'H;,
z             .~~~~4-'
r~~~~~~~- - -J(
ri:~               ID   0)
<                   D.u "
'H-                 ll~



