Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1933 CE
                         Project Agreement
              (Distribution and Transmission Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
                       Dated August 31, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1933 CE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT,  dated August 31, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CEYLON ELECTRICITY
BOARD (the Board).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 29,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Board
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
    (B)  by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Board, the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the
Board on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Page  2
Agreements; and
    WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
    Section  1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. (a) The Board declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
    (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and the Board shall
otherwise agree, the Board shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. the Board shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
    Section 2.04. The Board shall duly perform all its obligations
under  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements.  Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Board shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
    Section 2.05.  (a) The Board shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit,
    (b)  The Board shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Board of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operation of the Board
Page  3
    Section 3.01. (a) The Board shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
    (b)  The Board shall at all times maintain its corporate
existence and the right to carry on its operations and take all
steps  necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
    Section 3.02. (a) The Board shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
    (b)  Except in the normal course of business, the Board shall
not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business.
    Section 3.03. The Board shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
    Section  4.01. (a)  The Board shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)  The Board shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
         (ii)     furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than:  (A) four months
                  after the end of each such year certified copies
                  of  its unaudited  financial  statements  for
                  such year;  and  (B)  Ten months after the end of
                  such year certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as  so audited,
                  together with the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)     furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
    Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Board shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year immediately preceding such incurrence or for a
later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
Page  4
including the debt to be incurred.
    (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   the term "debt" means all debt of the Board,
                  including debt for the service of which the Board
                  is responsible, maturing by its terms more than
                  one year after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred;
          (ii)    debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
                  of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
                  agreement or other instrument providing for such
                  debt;
         (iii)    the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
                  all  sources, adjusted to take account of the
                  Board's tariffs in effect at the time of the
                  incurrence of debt even though they were not in
                  effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month
                  period to which such revenues relate, less all
                  expenses of operation and maintenance in con-
                  nection with the generation, transmission and
                  distribution of electricity, administration, and
                  taxes, if any, but before deduction of provision
                  for depreciation of assets, interest and other
                  charges on debt;
          (iv)    the term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
                  ing fund allocations, if any) of, and interest
                  and other charges on, debt; and
           (v)    whenever for the purposes of this Section, or of
                  Section  4.03  hereof, it shall be necessary to
                  value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
                  debt payable in another currency, such valuation
                  shall be made on the basis of the prevailing law-
                  ful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                  is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
                  the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if such
                  other currency is not so obtainable, at such rate
                  of exchange as shall be reasonably determined by
                  the Association.
    Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Board shall, before the start of each fiscal year, review
and adjust, if necessary, its tariffs, to provide sufficient revenue
to cover operating expenses including taxes, if any, any
straight-line depreciation,  and to produce an annual return on the
current value of its net fixed assets in service of not less than
8%.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
    Section  5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Board thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty years after the date of this
Page  5
                  Agreement.
    (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Board of this event.
    Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other  address as  such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
     International Development Association
     1818 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
     INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
     Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                  64145 (WUI)
For the Board:
     Ceylon Electricity Board
     P.O. Box 540
     Colombo
     Sri Lanka
Cable address:                 Telex:
   KILOWATTS                       21368 KILOWATTS CE
   Colombo
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Board may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or  persons as the Board shall
designate in writing, and the Board shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly  authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                             Regional Vice President
                                                Asia
                     CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
                     By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Contracts for the construction of buildings, building equipment
and materials, and erection works under Part A of the Project up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $3,800,000, may
be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where  payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
Page  7
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Board shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such  consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Board shall carry out a program satisfactory to the
Association to retrain those staff of local authority distribution
systems transferred to the Board.
2.   The Board shall commence by December 31, 1988 the imple-
mentation of a program satisfactory to the Association for the
development of a decentralized computerized billing system, and
upgrading of its management information system.
3.   The Board shall take all measures necessary to ensure that on
and  after  December 31, 1988, total dues for electricity supplied
by the Board shall not exceed three months' billing.
4.   For the purposes of self insurance of its assets, the Board
shall, within eleven months of the end of its fiscal year, deposit
its annual provision to the insurance reserve in an insurance escrow
account with an independent financial institution.
5.   The Board shall by October 31, 1989 complete a tariff and load
management study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association. The Board shall review the results of said study with
the Association, and if necessary, thereafter modify the Board's
tariffs taking into account the agreed recommendations of said
study.
