Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2869 
Operation Name 
PE-REACT DPL I 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (34%);General education sector 
(33%);Health (33%) 
Project ID 
P101086 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 3, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 22, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Over the last 15 years, Peru has expanded the coverage of basic social programs, but the quality of 
services remains poor- especially in rural areas. There are many causes of poor quality, but a critical 
factor preventing change is the absence of clearly defined standards and results frameworks, across the 
social sectors. The consequence is inadequate human capital formation, as reflected in the health, 
nutrition and education status of children. If these issues are not addressed, the resulting labor supply 
deficiencies will constitute a major obstacle to the country’s medium-term economic competitiveness 
strategy, undermining efforts to diversify away from traditional exports towards activities with more 
local value-added, which require a more sophisticated labor force.  
 
Although Peru is a middle-income country, with near-universal coverage of primary education, only 
15% of second grade students presently reach full sufficiency in literacy and roughly half are unable to 
read at all. In health, 25% of births are not institutionally supported – rising to 45% in the 10 poorest 
departments – hampering efforts to reduce maternal and peri natal mortality. Fully 30% of five year old 
children are chronically malnourished. Outcomes are particularly poor in rural areas and among 
indigenous communities. For these reasons, the issues of service quality, results and accountability 
occupy center-stage in the new Government’s economic development and poverty reduction strategy  
 
In this context, the Peru REACT DPL supports actions in primary education, health and nutrition to 
define standards and set goals for the outcomes which families should expect for their children. This will 
be coupled with the development of robust monitoring systems providing up-to-date information on the 
performance of health posts and schools and individualized data for parents on the health, nutrition and 
learning status of their children. The operation also supports actions to reduce exclusion, rationalize 
programs, to improve targeting and to increase the participation of poor communities in budget 
processes and program monitoring.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The Development Objectives of the REACT DPL series are: improved outcomes in second grade 
literacy (especially in rural schools); increased access to institutional births in the 10 poorest 
departments (covering a third of the population); and increased coverage of individualized growth 
Page  2
monitoring and counseling for children under 24 months of age in areas with a high incidence of chronic 
malnutrition (stunting). Baseline data will be established for each indicator during preparation. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
This is the first in a planned series of three DPLs (programmed for FY 07, 08 and 09) to support the 
strengthening of the Results a
nd
Accountability (REACT) framework in Peru’s social sectors. The 
program builds on the recommendations of the “RECURSO” AAA report (“A New Social Contract for 
Peru”). To help basic education, health and nutrition services break out of prevailing “low quality 
equilibria”, the REACT DPL will promote transparent performance standards and encourage parents and 
local governments (whose role is growing due to decentralization) to demand improvements. The 
ministries of Education, Health, and Women/Social Development will set standards for children’s 
learning, health and nutrition outcomes, and establish goals for the proportion of children achieving 
them. They will develop monitoring systems to track the performance of all health posts and schools, 
and to provide reports for parents on the health, nutrition and learning status of their children. The 
operation also supports complementary actions to improve service quality, reduce exclusion, improve 
targeting and increase the participation of poor communities in budgeting and program monitoring. 
 
Governance reforms for equity and accountability in the social sectors 
The loan supports actions to rationalize social programs (as part of the effort to clarify the expected 
outputs), to improve the statistical base for equitable resource allocation; to establish effective and 
transparent targeting rules for urban programs, to ensure that all Peruvians have personal identify 
numbers to ensure their right to access programs; to strengthen civil society scrutiny of budgeting and 
execution of social spending at national and sub-national level; and to increase citizens’ expectations of 
the standards expected from social programs. 
 
Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in education 
The REACT DPL will support the GoP’s new focus on education quality and outcomes. To achieve 
better quality, first, the system needs to develop clear learning standards, understood by parents, 
teachers, school administrators, students, and other stakeholders. Second, there should be continuous 
universal assessments with timely feedback to teachers, schools, and the community, to allow them to 
understand the nature of their quality gap. Finally, the system should provide targeted support to help 
teachers, schools, and regions close the gap. REACT will support the establishment, dissemination, and 
utilization of clear and transparent reading standards at the 2
nd
 grade. As well as clear standards, it is 
also essential to have a system to monitor outcomes and hold the schools accountable for outcomes. A 
national assessment in December 2006 produced nationwide school-level data on reading and 
comprehension skills of students in the second grade, achieving 50% coverage. The REACT DPL will 
support the continuing development of the national literacy evaluation to achieve higher levels of 
coverage, its expansion to cover bilingual schools, and the inclusion of a math component in the 
evaluation. It will also support the use of the results to inform parents about their children’s 
performance, explaining the scores in easy-to-understand terms. Municipalities will get reports on the 
performance of their schools and targets will be set for improvement. REACT will also support the 
development of a national regulatory system, SINEACE, for monitoring the quality of educational 
institutions. For increased accountability to have a positive impact on learning, it will also be necessary 
for the education system to respond by allocating the necessary resources to improve defective services. 
REACT will support enhanced training for teachers, improved textbooks, and delivery of additional 
books and supplies to the poorest schools. These tools will enable teachers to respond the pressure 
generated by assessment and increased parental knowledge, to improve educational outcomes.  
 
Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in Health 
Page  3
The REACT DPL will support the MINSA strategy to increase the coverage of institutional births in 
Peru, focusing on the 10 poorest departments
1
,
where coverage deficits are most marked. This is 
expected to have a direct impact on peri-natal and maternal mortality rates and to contribute to improved 
nutritional outcomes for newborn children. MINSA has established access to institutional births with 
good quality as the key operational standard for the primary health system, and has set a target to 
improve coverage of institutional births in the 10 poorest departments by 2011 
–
the DPL will support 
the attainment of these goals. The accountability strategy is based on Management Agreements between 
national and regional governments and local governments. These will include annual quantitative goals, 
and diagnostics of the obstacles and challenges to achieving the goals in the region. The DPL will also 
support the strategy of MINSA and the health insurance program, SIS to increase coverage and scope of 
SIS insurance for women of childbearing age (MEF) in the 10 poorest departments, increase the share of 
SIS resources going to primary and secondary care, and to deliver a minimum package of medicine and 
other supplies for birth attendance. The SIS information system will be upgraded to allow the linking of 
each paid service to a specific provider and beneficiary. This will allow SIS and MINSA to identify the 
population centers with low coverage and to track the affiliated population using risk-factor analysis.  
 
Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in Nutrition 
The REACT DPL will support the definition of a standard for nutritional outcomes (adequate monthly 
weight gain) and to improved outcomes on the weight gain standard for children under 24 months of age 
(% of children in high risk areas who have adequate weight gain).
 
The program supports the roll-out of a 
national system for nutritional monitoring, which incorporates the weight gain standards and other key 
nutritional variables (such as height). The Health Ministry and the agency responsible for nutrition 
standards, CENAN, will develop an integrated information system to monitor nutritional status, tracking 
individuals’ weight and height, with an effective feedback system. The DPL also supports other actions 
needed in nutrition, to complement the development of standards and accountability systems. These 
include: the consolidation of a national nutrition strategy, the systematization of nutritional counseling 
activities; and the alignment of CCT program Juntos with nutrition goals.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
There is a possible risk that waste materials from institutional births in rural health posts may not be 
disposed of properly. To minimize environmental risks, a review will be conducted of MINSA protocols 
for the disposal of medical waste and of compliance with the norms in rural health posts. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ian Walker 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8518 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: Iwalker@worldbank.org 
 
1
Amazonas, Ayacucho, Apurimac, Cajamarca, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Loreto, Piura, Puno and Ucayali (ENDES 2004). 
Page  4
