Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3070 
Operation Name 
PE-REACT DPL I 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (34%);General education sector 
(33%);Health (33%) 
Project ID 
P101086 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND  FINANCE (MEF) 
Government of Peru 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Peru 
Tel: 51-1-426-8495 
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 16, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 16, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Over the last 15 years, Peru has expanded the coverage of basic social programs, but the quality 
of services remains poor- especially in rural areas. There are many causes of poor quality, but a 
critical factor preventing change is the absence of clearly defined standards and results 
frameworks, across the social sectors. The consequence is inadequate human capital formation, 
as reflected in the health, nutrition and education status of children. If these issues are not 
addressed, the resulting labor supply deficiencies will constitute a major obstacle to the country’s 
medium-term economic competitiveness strategy, undermining efforts to diversify away from 
traditional exports towards activities with more local value-added, which require a more 
sophisticated labor force.  
 
Although Peru is a middle-income country, with near-universal coverage of primary education, 
only 15% of second grade students presently reach full sufficiency in literacy and roughly half 
are unable to read at all. In health, 25% of births are not institutionally supported – rising to 45% 
in the 10 poorest departments – hampering efforts to reduce maternal and peri natal mortality. 
Fully 30% of five year old children are chronically malnourished. Outcomes are particularly poor 
in rural areas and among indigenous communities. For these reasons, the issues of service 
quality, results and accountability occupy center-stage in the new Government’s economic 
development and poverty reduction strategy.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The Development Objectives of the REACT DPL series are: improved outcomes in second grade 
literacy (especially in rural schools); increased access to institutional births in the 10 poorest 
departments (covering a third of the population); and increased coverage of individualized 
growth monitoring and counseling for children under 24 months of age in areas with a high 
Page  2
incidence of chronic malnutrition (stunting). Baseline data will be established for each indicator 
during preparation. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Peru REACT DPL supports actions in primary education, health and nutrition to define 
standards and set goals for the outcomes which families should expect for their children. This 
will be coupled with the development of robust monitoring systems providing up-to-date 
information on the performance of health posts and schools and individualized data for parents 
on the health, nutrition and learning status of their children. The operation also supports actions 
to reduce exclusion, rationalize programs, to improve targeting and to increase the participation 
of poor communities in budget processes and program monitoring.  
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance.  The ministries of 
Education, Health, and Women/Social Development will set standards for children
’s learning, 
health and nutrition outcomes, and establish goals for the proportion of children achieving them. 
They will develop monitoring systems to track the performance of all health posts and schools, 
and to provide reports for parents on the health, nutrition and learning status of their children.   
 
For each set of benchmarks or triggers, the Operation Policy Matrix specifies clearly defined 
baselines, and methodologies for measuring changes over the life of the operation. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits.  The REACT DPL series is expected to lead to improved outcomes in second grade 
literacy (especially in rural schools); increased access to institutional births in the 10 poorest 
departments (covering a third of the population); and increased coverage of individualized 
growth monitoring and counseling for children under 24 months of age in areas with a high 
incidence of chronic malnutrition (stunting). Baseline data have been established for each 
indicator during preparation. 
 
Risks.  (a) Political risks: Although there is strong buy-in at ministerial level in MEF, Ministry of 
Education (MINEDU), Ministry of Health (MINSA) and Ministry of Women and Social 
Development (MIMDES), the necessary changes may be opposed by groups within the 
ministries. (b) Social and environmental risks: There is some risk of conflicts– such as staff 
resistance to greater transparency. There is also a risk that interventions might not be culturally 
appropriate and of inequity in benefits distribution, due to exclusion of indigenous groups. (c) 
Economic risks: None have been identified. 
Page  3
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
There are no expected negative environmental consequences from the policy actions supported in 
this operation. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: David Ian Walker 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8518 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: iwalker@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
