            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020105


   1. Project Data



     Operation ID                                          Operation Name
     P101086                                               PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL

     Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
     Peru                                                  Social Protection & Labor


    Programmatic DPL
    Planned Operations:         0                          Approved Operations:                    0



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Financing (USD)
     IBRD-74550                                          05-Jun-2008                                                           150,000,000.00

     Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
     05-Jun-2007                                         20-Aug-2009

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                           Co-financing (USD)

     Original Commitment                                          150,000,000.00                                                        0.00

     Revised Commitment                                           150,000,000.00                                                        0.00

     Actual                                                       150,000,000.00                                                        0.00




     Sector(s)
     Health(40%):Other social services(20%):Primary education(20%):Central government administration(20%)

     Theme(s)
     Other public sector governance(23%):Nutrition and food security(22%):Child health(22%):Education for all(22%):Managing for development
     results(11%)

     Prepared by                       Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator            Group
     Hjalte S. A. Sederlof             Robert Mark Lacey                   Joy Behrens                       IEGHC (Unit 2)



PHPROJECTDATATBL



     Operation ID                                          Operation Name
     P101177                                               PE-2nd Results & Accnt.(REACT)DPL/DDO ( P101177 )

     Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
     Peru                                                  Social Protection & Labor
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                         Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)




     L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Financing (USD)
     IBRD-74550,IBRD-76680                               31-Dec-2010                                                        330,000,000.00

     Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
     09-Apr-2009                                         08-Sep-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                         Co-financing (USD)

     Original Commitment                                         330,000,000.00                                                     0.00

     Revised Commitment                                          330,000,000.00                                                     0.00

     Actual                                                      330,000,000.00                                                     0.00




     Sector(s)
     Central government administration(5%):Compulsory health finance(16%):Primary education(16%):General education
     sector(5%):Health(58%)

     Theme(s)
     Child health(40%):Education for all(20%):Health system performance(10%):Nutrition and food security(30%)


PHPROJECTDATATBL



     Operation ID                                         Operation Name
     P116264                                              PE-3R Results & Accnt.(REACT)DPL ( P116264 )

     Country                                              Practice Area(Lead)
     Peru                                                 Social Protection & Labor



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Financing (USD)
     IBRD-76680,IBRD-79770                               01-Dec-2013                                                         50,000,000.00

     Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
     09-Dec-2010                                         01-Dec-2013

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                         Co-financing (USD)

     Original Commitment                                           50,000,000.00                                                    0.00

     Revised Commitment                                            50,000,000.00                                                    0.00

     Actual                                                        50,000,000.00                                                    0.00




     Sector(s)
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



     Central government administration(16%):Compulsory health finance(17%):General education sector(17%):Health(33%):Other social
     services(17%)

     Theme(s)
     Other public sector governance(16%):Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care Services(33%):Child health(17%):Education for
     all(17%):Population and reproductive health(17%)




2. Project Objectives and Policy Areas


a. Objectives
       The Results and Accountability Development Policy Loan Series (REACT) consisted of three DPLs, processed in FY07, FY08, and FY09,
       respectively. The development objective (PDO) as set out in the Program Document (page 30) was to strengthen results and accountability in
       education, health and nutrition. The objective remained the same throughout the series.




b. Were the program objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation of the series? If yes, were the changes part
   of the program document approved by the Board?
       Yes


       Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
       No



c.     Pillars/Policy Areas
       Policy Areas
       Based on the operations policy matrix, REACT supported four policy areas:

            1 Governance reforms for equity and accountability in the social services, aiming at consolidation and better targeting of poverty
            programs; results-based management; and increased transparency and civil society vigilance in the budget process;
            2 Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in education, aiming at introducing improved parental understanding of
            children’s development in education, notably 2nd grade reading attainment and reading comprehension;
            3 Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in health, aiming at improving women’s understanding of their rights to
            institutional births, and of related quality standards for maternal and infant health services; and reduced peri-natal and infant mortality in
            the ten poorest regions of the country;
            4 Standards and accountability for improved outcomes in nutrition, aiming at improved parental understanding of growth monitoring,
            and of related objective indicators; reduced proportion of insufficient growth velocity among children under 2 in high malnutrition areas;
            and reduced under-5 stunting nationally


       Changes
       Indicators. The introduction of indicators to measure parental understanding of expected outcomes in education, health and nutrition
       proved to be premature at the time they were introduced into project design in 2007 - collection of such indicators started only in the late
       summer of 2009, as part of a nationwide survey on user perceptions and understanding of social services. These indicators could therefore
       not be used to measure changes in parental behavior under the DPL series. Instead, another set of key indicators were introduced in late
       2007 to measure education, health and nutrition outcomes. At that time, endline indicators were set for end-year 2011. However, with the
       introduction of a deferred draw-down arrangement in DPL-2, the series would not close before September, 2015. Indicator targets were not
       adjusted to coincide with the closing date.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)




d. Comments on Program Cost, Financing, and Dates
    Project cost and financing. The commitment under the first DPL was US$ 150 million; the second US$ 330 million with a deferred draw-down
    option; and the third US$ 50 million, totaling US$ 530 million. The three DPLs have been fully disbursed.

    The size of the DPL Loans was increased during implementation of the series, reflecting a weakening Government budget situation, and
    especially the effects of the international economic and financial crisis during 2008-2009. Initially, three loans of US$ 150 million each had
    been envisaged. Actual amounts were as indicated above.

    Dates. REACT-1 was approved on June 5, 2007, and closed on August 20, 2009; REACT-2 was approved on April 9, 2009, and closed on
    September 8, 2015 (it included a deferred draw-down option); and REACT-3 was approved on December 9, 2010, and closed on December
    1, 2013.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The DPL series was relevant to the Bank’s country strategy, Government policy, and the country situation. This was the case at appraisal, and
   it remains so as of this writing.
   The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY07-11 was organized around three pillars, including a social development pillar
   emphasizing basic needs, and policy changes in education, health, and nutrition towards results-based management. In collaboration with the
   Government, the RECURSO program (Redicion de cuentas para la reforma social) was elaborated, focusing on service quality, results and
   accountability as means to accelerate improvements in the social sectors. The current CPS, covering FY12-16, continues this trend, including
   further support for better access to and quality of basic services as one of its three main focal areas. In practical terms, this CPS includes
   increasing the proportion of institutional births in rural areas, a national strategy for implementing a more efficient and results-oriented education
   system; and an education model designed to bring in the most disadvantaged. Government policy at the time the DPL series was being
   introduced was largely shaped by RECURSO. It continues to be so at the time of this writing: emphasizing social inclusion – reducing
   inequities in social outcomes – is a key feature in the Government’s current strategy, and a new Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion
   has been created to drive the inclusion strategy.




   Rating                                                                                Revised Rating
   High                                                                                  Not Rated/Not Applicable


b. Relevance of Design

   The design was consistent with the PDO. Each policy area focused on supporting the implementation of easy-to-understand performance
   standards that were likely to strengthen accountability in service provision, and emphasizing achievement of tangible, measurable, results in the
   targeted service areas. Each policy area was underpinned by a series of legal, regulatory and policy actions and reforms that were developed
   and refined stage-wise throughout the REACT program. For instance, the basis for a transparent, results-based budget process for social
   sector expenditures was formed through legislation in DPL-1, piloting the publication of budgets, budget execution, and measuring physical
   outcomes in DPL-2; then introduced as regular features of policy under DPL-3. The introduction of "improved parental understanding" as a key
   outcome indicator appeared to have been premature.

   The choice of a DPL series was appropriate: its standards and accountability framework, reflected in the policy matrix, provided flexibility to
   accommodate adjustments in emphasis that might be expected to appear over time (and occurred with the shift in emphasis in the health
   sector); and its cross-sectoral policy matrix provided a coherent framework for the Bank’s portfolio of investment lending and technical
   assistance in the social sectors; it complemented an ongoing Fiscal DPL series aimed at broader reform of the budget process; and it also
   complemented the International Monetary Fund's (IMF’) stand-by arrangement to support macro stability.

   The macroeconomic framework during the preparation of the REACT series was satisfactory. According to the IMF's 2008 Article IV
   Consultations, Peru's economic expansion is the longest on record, and inflation was among the lowest in the Latin America Region. Strong
   macroeconomic performance resulted in steady fiscal surpluses and declining public debt vulnerabilities. Sound fundamentals helped limit the
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



       contagion from the 2008-2010 global financial crisis, preserve adequate liquidity conditions in domestic financial and capital markets, and
       bolster domestic confidence in the economy.




       Rating                                                                             Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                        Not Rated/Not Applicable



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To strengthen results and accountability in EDUCATION

    Rationale
    Introduction to the discussion of Efficacy for this project:

    Efficacy is determined separately for each of the three sectors.

    The objective includes both an intermediate outcome and a final outcome – the introduction of accountability mechanisms that would
    influence service performance and use, which in turn would contribute to improvements in education, health and nutrition performance.

    Results cannot be exclusively ascribed to the three DPLs – they are also influenced by other on-going development and recurrent activities
    in the sectors. Still, it appears highly plausible that the accountability mechanisms supported by REACT were an important means to
    promote service use and performance.

    Objective 1 – to strengthen results and accountability in education
    Rating: Modest
    Accountability was strengthened through the public disclosure of children’s standard test scores at school level, encouraging parents to
    request scores, and schools to discuss results. This process was introduced in 2009. It became the basis for results-based policies and
    programs in all schools in the country.

    Results. Under REACT, program results focused on second grade students. Drawing on key indicators, the proportion of students
    reaching Level 2 in reading comprehension over the period 2007-2011 (the implementation period of REACT) rose from 16 to 30 percent;
    and in math from 7 to 13 percent, falling short of the targets of 35 and 30 percent, respectively. However, over the subsequent period,
    2012-2014, the proportion of students reaching Level 2 in reading comprehension surpassed the target, reaching 44 percent; although
    proficiency in math, while improving from 7 to 26 percent, remained below the 2011 target of 30 percent.

    The ICR (p. 15) notes that these results cannot only be attributed to REACT, but also reflect other ongoing programs to raise the quality of
    the education system. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to assume that the REACT-supported accountability initiatives that directly engaged
    schools, teachers, and parents in measuring performance, contributed to better outcomes.




    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    Not applicable because this project is a DPL.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)




    Revised Rationale
    Not applicable because this project is a DPL.




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To strengthen results and accountability in HEALTH

    Rationale
    Objective 2 – to strengthen results and accountability in health
    Rating: Substantial
    Accountability took the form of management agreements between national and sub-national government levels on quantitative goals for
    institutional births, and mapping of constraints to achieving targets in 13 high risk regions. Constraints were based on a census of health
    facilities, and were to facilitate the allocation of available resources so as to raise the quality of institutional births. As a consequence,
    institutional births in the participating regions rose from 49.4 percent in 2007 to 62.2 percent in 2011, compared to a program target of 70
    percent. By 2013, coverage had reached 68.5 percent, close to the program target.

    Results. National maternal mortality decreased from 164 per 100,000 live births in 2007 to 100 in 2011, exceeding the target of 120.
    Maternal mortality further decreased to 89 per 100,000 live births in 2013. Neo-natal mortality decreased from 15.2 per 1,000 live births in
    2007 to 14 in 2011 and further to 13 in 2013, exceeding the target of 14.6 for 2011.

    Again, with other programs underway, the results cannot only be attributed to REACT, although it is likely that the measures here had a
    more direct as well as more decisive impact on outcomes, as they targeted the most underserved regions.




    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    Not applicable because this project is a DPL.

    Revised Rationale
    Not applicable because this project is a DPL.




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 3
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



 Objective
 To strengthen results and accountability in NUTRITION

 Rationale
 Objective 3 – to strengthen results and accountability in nutrition
 Rating: substantial
 Accountability took the form of intensified, continuous, nutritional monitoring of children in the first year of life, with a particular focus on high
 malnutrition areas; briefing parents on progress; and advising them on nutritional behavior. The average frequency of nutritional monitoring
 of children in their first year of life increased from 3.3 measurements per year to 4.2 in 2009, exceeding the target of 4 measurements.
 Results. The stunting rate for children under five declined from 28.5 percent in 2007 to 19.5 percent in 2011, exceeding the target of 23
 percent. It has fallen further, to 14.5 percent in 2014.
 With other programs underway, the results cannot be fully attributed to REACT. Still, its impact is likely to have been significant – in
 disseminating standards, and in changing expectations: rural and indigenous populations expect their children to be small and make little
 effort to change that. Here, the program has contributed to changing awareness, and with it is likely that behaviors also have changed.
 *                      *                      *                *
 An additional tool, supporting the three objectives, was the introduction of a unique identification number for all Peruvian children born
 after 2008, supported by REACT. Improved civil registration of children can contribute to better identification and targeting of children at
 risk, especially when integrated with key social program databases, as is the case in Peru.




 Rating
 Substantial




 Revised Objective
 Not applicable because this project was a DPL.

 Revised Rationale
 Not applicable because this project was a DPL.




 Revised Rating
 Not Rated/Not Applicable




5. Outcome

The relevance of the PDO was high. It addressed stagnant development in the social sectors, and it was tailored to both Government and Bank
priorities. The relevance of design was substantial, since policy areas and activities responded to the PDO. Although efficacy is rated modest
for the first objective, reflecting the fact that achievements fell short of targets, a strong positive trend was evident, and one of the two main
targets was subsequently exceeded. For the two other objectives, all targets were met, and efficacy is rated substantial.　



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



6. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



REACT addressed, and continues to address, improvements in service performance and outcomes that remain priorities in Government policy.
The strategies that REACT helped underpin reflect a broad national consensus about better performance in social services, and better
outcomes. These strategies are being pursued in a stable political and economic environment and are based on extensive consultations with
civil society. The strategies continue to have the support of development partners – the IMF and the Inter-American Development Bank -- as
well as bilateral donors. Continuity is also strengthened by the Bank’s Social Inclusion Technical Assistance Loan (P131028). Potential, but
seemingly low-level risks exist relating to elections in 2016 and macro-economic developments. Risks are also present in the fluctuations in
commodity prices, on which Peru is fairly dependent.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
        Modest


7. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     In designing REACT, the Bank team drew on its prior work in social reform – the RECURSO, where its focus on service quality, results and
     accountability came to underpin the DPL series. As a result, the objectives of the project and its design became of high strategic relevance.
     The series was also prepared in close collaboration with development partners, which is likely to have contributed to a more coordinated
     approach to social sector development. The choice of a DPL structure was appropriate for creating fiscal space and for necessary institutions
     to be put into place. The priority given to rural areas and poor indigenous populations was appropriate in that it raised performance indicators
     in some of the worst served areas. Monitoring and evaluation design could have been stronger, as some accountability indicators would turn
     out to be premature.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Regular supervision missions were carried out for the duration of REACT. Supervision was comprehensive, including necessary staff
     expertise, local focal points for each sector, counterparts at national as well as sub-national levels, and collaboration with donors. The team
     was able to flexibly adjust the size of the DPLs to respond to Government’s financing requirements. It adjusted accountability indicators to
     more suitable process measures, when data on the former turned out to be unavailable. And it shifted the focus of the health component from
     performance agreements to insurance, drawing lessons from implementation.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Highly Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Satisfactory


8. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     Government commitment to the reform agenda was strong, and continues to be so.
     The President was involved in the program throughout its implementation, anchoring it and providing the necessary political stability that
     was needed to introduce reforms in a complex institutional environment. This involvement facilitated collaboration with the key ministries
     (Economy and Finance, Education, Health, Women and Social Development) that were able to keep on track in working towards
     introducing and institutionalizing the results-based policy actions; and at the sub-national level, as accelerating decentralization placed
     greater emphasis on the accountability of local governments in operating basic services. Strong leadership also facilitated coordination
     with partner agencies, notably the IMF, the IADB, DFID, USAID, and German Aid, among others, through thematic groups periodically
     organized by the Government
      Counterpart arrangements – a key official in charge of overall program implementation - facilitated day-to-day implementation and
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



   communications with the Bank team. Implementation was further facilitated by extensive consultations that the government undertook with
   civil society on project rationale and strategies; and by mobilizing social actors (civil society organizations) in addressing issues among
   rural, and particularly indigenous, populations. Sound macro policies and political stability formed a stable context for the reform




   Government Performance Rating
   Highly Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   Not applicable because this is a DPL.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Not Rated

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Highly Satisfactory



9. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   Key indicators for systematic tracking of outcomes were identified in the Operations Policy Matrix at the outset of the series, and targets were
   set for the end of the period. Likewise, intermediate indicators contributing to measuring reforms that supported improved outcomes (for
   instance improved parental understanding) were defined in the Matrix, all covering the full period of the series. Indicators covering parental
   understanding were subsequently dropped in the absence of relevant information.




b. M&E Implementation

   M&E design, and notably the results orientation of REACT, provided the administration with a logical model that defined goals and specified
   results indicators.
   Output and outcome Indicators were identified at the outset of REACT and tracked throughout its implementation. For each set of
   benchmarks, the Operation Policy Matrix specified baselines, and methodologies for measuring changes. In some instances, indicators
   were adjusted: “improved parental understanding”, originally an outcome measure, was replaced during implementation due to lack of data;
   new indicators were selected that could draw on periodic data from regular surveys or administrative data. For DPL-2 and DPL-3 an identity
   indicator was added, applying to identifying rural children for early access to key services.




c. M&E Utilization
   The system served a useful purpose in keeping national and sub-national level actors informed of REACT activities and outputs, and of the
   direction reforms were moving in. This served to consolidate broad support for the reform agenda. The M&E system was used to identify
   impact on vulnerable communities, tracing points of support and resistance, and developing suggestions on strategies to overcome
   obstacles.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


10. Other Issues

a. Environmental and Social Effects
   No safeguard policies were triggered




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   No fiduciary concerns were noted.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   No positive or negative unintended impacts were noted.




d. Other
   None.




11. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                          ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                                ---
                                                                                                                  Both the ICR and the IEG rate
                                                                                                                  Quality at Entry as satisfactory
                                                                                                                  and Quality of Supervision as
                                                                                                                  Highly Satisfactory. In
                                                                                                                  accordance with the joint
Bank Performance                          Highly Satisfactory               Satisfactory                          OPCS/IEG Harmonization
                                                                                                                  criteria, when the two
                                                                                                                  component ratings are in the
                                                                                                                  same range, the overall
                                                                                                                  performance rating is taken as
                                                                                                                  the lower of the two.
Borrower Performance                      Highly Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory                   ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                           Satisfactory


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PE-Results and Accountability (REACT)DPL(P101086)



12. Lessons

 This review highlights the following lessons from the ICR:

 Ownership. A critical success factor was the high level of government ownership of the policy reforms supported by the program. The
 Peruvian government strongly endorsed the case for more transparency about outcomes. Support for the program came both from the
 Ministry of Economy and Finance and from line agencies. This was coupled with broad public support (among civil society, the private sector,
 and the press) for many of the reforms being implemented under the REACT operation.

 Participation. Support was also reinforced by the government of Peru’s generally participatory approach to policy reform. Multi-stakeholder
 dialogues were carried out at critical stages of policy design and implementation. This dialogue helped boost support from governmental and
 nongovernmental actors and counteract the resistance of interest groups potentially affected by some reforms. Stakeholder engagement also
 helped mobilize the necessary political support for additional budgetary assignments to fund critical interventions to strengthen accountability
 and improve results in education, health, and nutrition. Perhaps more importantly, the participatory approach was at the core of the bottom-up
 accountability measures promoted by the reform agenda, which encouraged the establishment of voice and client power mechanisms to
 promote awareness of poor quality in the provision of services among parents and policy makers and demand and track improvements and
 results.

 Strong AAA work and accompanying operations. Much of the initial momentum for the REACT Program was attributable to the impulse
 from RECURSO. RECURSO used mass media as a way to mobilize support for change and as a communication channel to inform parents
 about what they should expect for their children’s development outcomes. In addition, a package of services -- including lending and
 technical assistance in health, nutrition, social protection, and education -- was critical in strengthening the implementation and sustainability
 of the policies supported by the REACT series.




13. Assessment Recommended?

No


14. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provided sufficient evidence based information and analysis to adequately complete the ICRR. A stronger discussion of the various
components of the M&E system would have facilitated analysis of that section. Lessons built on matters raised in the text, and with broader
applicability. The ICR provided a reasonable balance between result-orientation and narrative; it was internally consistent; and the main text
stayed within reasonable limits of conciseness. Other than incorrectly rating overall Bank Performance, the ICR was written according to the
guidelines.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
