Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3481-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $175.5 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
March 10, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht (B)
$ 1.00           B 23
Bl            =  $0.04
B 1 million  =  $43,478
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
BOI    -  Board of Investment
ECCT   -  Energy Conservation Center of Thailand
NEA    -  National Energy Administration
NESDB  -  National Economic and Social Development Board
RTG    -  Royal Thai Government
STK    -  "Right to farm" certificate
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND INDUSTRIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY .i...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
PART I - THE ECONOMY .1..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
A.  Political Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B. Past Economic Trends and the Emerging Need for
Structural Adjustment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               2
C. Government Initial Policy Responses and Fifth
Plan Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
D.  Recent Economic Developments and their Implications. .                5
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. . . . . . . . .                7
A.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                7
B.  Fiscal and Budgetary Policies. . . . . . . . . . . . .                9
C.  Institutional Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14
D.  Industrial Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               18
E.  Energy Use and Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               23
F.  Agriculture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               26
PART III - THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN . . . . . .               30
A.  Loan History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               30
B.  IMF Activities in Thailand and Government/IMF/Bank
Cooperation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              31
C. Projected Performance of the Thai Economy under
Structural Adjustment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              32
D.  General Evaluation of SAL I Implementation, and
the Place of SAL II in the Medium-Term
Structural Adjustment Process. . . . . . . . . . . .              35
E.  Benefits and Risks ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  41
F.  Loan Amount. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               42
G.  Monitoring ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  42
H.  Categories of Goods to be Financed . . . . . . . . . .               42
I.  Counterpart Funds  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  43
J.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . .               43
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND AND
RELATIONSHIP TO PROPOSED LOAN  . . . . ... . . . . . . . .               44
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY . . . . . . . . . .               46
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
ANNEXES                                                           Page No-
I.  Country Data                                                 47
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations                              52
III.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet                                65
IV.  Government Letter of Development Policy                      66
V.  Use of IMF Resources                                         86



- i -
THAILAND
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:           Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:             $175.5 million equivalent, including capitalized front
end fee.
Terms:              20 years, including five years- grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan Description:  The proposed loan would be the second to support the
implementation of the Government's comprehensive
structural adjustment program, this phase of which has
been outlined in a Letter of Development Policy submitted
to the Bank. The principal aim of the program is to
restore a sustainable medium-term balance of payments
position while maintaining the growth momentum of the
economy. To achieve these objectives, specific action
would be taken over the next twelve months to (i) promote
a coordinated approach in strengthening public sector
resource mobilization and efficiency of resource use;
(ii) increase the effectiveness of public institutions
guiding the structural adjustment process; (iii) improve
the structure of industrial incentives; (iv) improve the
efficiency of energy use; and (v) promote agricultural
growth and exports.  The foreign exchange provided by the
loan would be used to finance essential imports. The
main risks arise from uncertainties in the external
environment which could affect export prospects and
borrowing costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The entire loan is expected to be disbursed by September
30, 1983.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           None.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $175.5 million, including
capitalized front end fee, in further support of its structural adjustment
program. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on
September 18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated,
and another economic report entitled "Coping With Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy" (Report No. 3067a-TH) which proposed a medium-term strategy
to deal with the problems that were being encountered was discussed with the
Royal Thai Government in September 1980 and issued on January 8, 1981.
Since then, the Government initiated a comprehensive program for structural
adjustment of the economy, and a first IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan for
Thailand was approved by the Board on March 2, 1982. At present, a further
Economic Report is in draft and is proposed to be discussed with the
Government in April and issued in June 1983. During 1982, a number of
missions visited Thailand to supervise progress under the first Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and identify and subsequently appraise components of
SAL II. Country data are given in Annex I.
A. Political Background
3.        Since the early 1970s, participation in the political process has
broadened significantly in Thailand. Initially, this led to a series of rapid
changes in the top leadership. Since 1977, there has been more stability,
with only one change in Prime Minister, and the present Parliament is expected
to complete its Constitutional term. Cabinet changes have continued to occur
relatively frequently, however. Since 1977, the country has been governed by
coalitions between the military and a number of political parties. After
General Prem Tinsulanonda took over in March 1980 as Prime Minister, the
country embarked on a course of adjustment to the external and domestic
economic realities of the 1980s, and the Fifth Five Year Plan, 1981-86, was
drawn up along these lines. Senior civil servants supporting this approach
assumed key positions and have been providing essential continuity to the
effort.



- 2 -
4.        Continued constitutional reform was built into the 1978 ConsL'tut Ltio
by including a number of transitory provisions which when they would 1apse
April 21, 1983, would reduce the influence of the appointed Se.nate aL `
strengthen the House and political parties by requiring all elected ca. dda-
to be members of such parties. Recently there has, however, been an intensrive
debate in political circles as to whether the timing is appropriate or a
further rapid move towards a full parliamentary system, and Parliaen.>- has
been called back from recess to consider the issue. It is expected that a
compromise will be reached, under which constitutional change will continue.
but at a slower pace than originally planned. Parliament will then be
dissolved on schedule on April 21. The Prem administration will become a
caretaker goverament, and national elections are to follow in June. However,
while political change will occur, there is a broad consensus in the country
on the objectives and priorities of the Fifth Year Plan, of which the
structural adjustment program is an integral part. As a consequence, th-e
economic policies and directions are not expected to change in a fundamental
way. The timing of SAL II is designed to support the continuity of the policy
thrusts and the ongoing staff work.
B.  Past Economic Trends and the Emerging Need for Structural Adiustment
5.        A numlber of positive features have contributed to Thailand's rapid
socio-economic development over the past two decades. These include the
continued availability of reasonably fertile land and the relatively equitable
distribution of such land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to economic incen-
tives, provision of infrastructure by the Government, the openness of the
economy which improved the competitiveness of Thai products, and the dynamism
of the private sector in both industry and agricu:Lture. Thus, the 1960s and
most of the 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic development in
Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4-5% per capita). Real
agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based 'Largely on an expansion in
cultivated area and development of new crops in response to export opportu-
nities was a major factor contributing to these developments as well as to a
sustained growth .of exports. An increase in the iinvestment level from about
20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid industrial growth.  Investments were
largely financecl by domestic savings, keeping the debt service ratio quite
low. Exports grew at a consistently high rate. The incidence of poverty was
reduced substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76,
although significant regional disparities continue to exist, with the Central
Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per capita income, but
also being much better served by roads, telecommunications, schools, public
health and other services than the other three regions. Still, substantial
overall progress was made in meeting the basic needs of the Thai people.
Major gains were! made in recent years in reducing the annual population growth
rate from 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2%' in 1979 (but only affecting
labor force growth two decades later). Natural gas was discovered offshore
and has started to come on stream. Recently, oil and gas have also been
discovered onshore, and hopes are high that these finds will turn out to be
substantial.



- 3 -
6.        The deteriorating international environment of the later 1970s and
early 1980s could however not fail to influence the Thai economy. The
Government was initially slow in responding, partly because the effects of
the first oil shock were temporarily compensated by favorable Thai export
prices from 1973 to mid-1975. Thus, until the end of the 1970s, the higher
external energy price level was not adequately reflected in domestic energy
prices, energy use grew rapidly, and, given also the second wave of
international petroleum price increases in 1979/80, the share of petroleum
in total imports climbed from 9% in 1970 to 31% in 1980. In manufacturing,
exports continued to increase rapidly, indicating sufficient competitive
strength, but on the other hand there was a tendency to increase protection
and to apply investment incentives without sufficient regard to efficiency
considerations. In agriculture, less favorable export prices have been
reducing production incentives, notwithstanding the government's efforts to
mitigate this effect. Also, new agricultural land is gradually becoming
scarcer. With regard to the overall management of the public sector in the
late 1970s, the increased Government support of socio-economic development
led to a gradually increasing share of Central Government expenditures in
GDP, which was not matched by increased revenues, given the inelastic tax
system. In the public enterprise sector, tariffs were not adjusted
sufficiently to reflect costs, and rapidly increasing investment programs
for some of the major enterprises were not integrated into the overall macro
management of the economy. Finally, in its efforts to control inflation,
the Government resorted to fairly widespread price controls, and did not
allow nominal interest rates to respond sufficiently to renewed inflation.
7.        Given the gradually worsening external world environment in the late
1970s, the above domestic policies, and the second wave of large petroleum
price increases in 1979/80, Thailand's internal and external financial
situation deteriorated. While a relatively high rate of overall growth was
maintained (8.7% p.a. between 1975 and 1978, 6.1% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980),
this was accompanied by accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external
deficits and growing dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices
increased by 8% in 1977 and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and 20% in 1980. The central
government deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued
rapid export growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in
1977 and 1978, but it rose to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently, Thailand-s initially low external debt started to accumulate
rapidly. In view also of the rapid increases in international interest rates,
such deficits would not be sustainable in the medium term. Initially there
was hope in some circles that the development of Thailand's newly discovered
domestic energy resources would rapidly improve the situation. More sober
assessments showed, however, that while this factor could certainly contribute
to an improvement of the situation, more fundamental changes in the management
of the public sector and in the incentives to the private sector would be
necessary if Thailand was to continue to develop and modernize successfully in
the international environment of the 1980s.



- 4 -
C. Government Initial Policy Responses and Fifth Plan Strategy
8.        Beginning in 1979, the Government started to make partial policy
adjustments, at a gradually accelerating pace. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products and electricity, measures to
increase government revenues, amendments in the usury laws, which permitted an
increase in interest rates, and the introduction of regulations to increase
financial stability and exercise more monetary restraint. In the second half
of 1980, the Prem government, which had come to power half a year earlier,
began to give serious attention to the development of a medium-term compre-
hensive adjustment program in the context of the preparation of the Fifth Five
Year Plan. In the meantime it continued to implement further adjustment
measures. In October 1980 price controls. were lifted on 29 of 36 controlled
goods. In the same month the Government started on a reform of the tariff
structure, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by
between 10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen
out of line with international prices causing domestic shortages, were
increased by 60%. In a number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum
prices were incresased further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half
times as high as at the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981, charges
for other public services (water, transport, communications) were increased
substantially (mostly by at least 50%). During this period, the Government
also introduced various fiscal measures designed to limit the central
government deficiit. On the tax side, the changes were expected to yield an
increase in revenues of B 3 billion (0.4% of GDP) during FY81; on the
expenditure side, FY81 expenditures were reduced s:ignificantly from the
originally budgeted amounts.  Thus, the implementation of the Fifth Five Year
Plan strategy started well before the Plan came into effect.
9.        The Fifth Five-Year Plan covers the period October 1981 to September
1986. While some of its macro targets are being adjusted (see para. 14 below)
and its emphasis on the attainment of financial stability has been further
reinforced, its basic approach has not been changed. The major (and
interrelated) objectives are, in summary, financial stability, equity, and
national security (growth, of the appropriate kind, is seen as a derived
rather than a primary objective). The Government aims at reconciling these
objectives over the five-year period of the Plan, partly through a reduction
in lower priority public expenditures and improved public sector resource
mobilization, and partly through medium-term structural adjustments which
improve production incentives and increase the efficiency of the economy, and
improve its competitiveness, both in the external and domestic markets.
Important economic and institutional instruments to attain these objectives
include improved fiscal, monetary and balance of payments management; adequate
pricing of public services; efficient use of public and private resources;
accelerated rural development and income creation in poverty areas; restruc-
turing of the production process in agriculture and industry; and accelerated
natural resource development, especially in the energy sector. To the extent
that the needs in these areas were urgent and the remedies obvious, the



- D -
Government moved on them immediately. In cases where significant preparatory
analysis was needed, policy studies were undertaken, often with support from
the Bank. Sectoral planning subcommittees of the NESDB reviewed the major
structural issues and began to develop concrete policy packages. However,
partly because a firm information base was not yet available, and partly
because of institutional weaknesses, program development has been continuing
in most areas even after the Plan period started.
10.       The structural adjustment undertaken in the context of the Plan
included a moderate absolute reduction in the current account deficit by
1986. In relation to GDP, this however implied a reduction by two-thirds,
to 2.4% of GDP, a level which was judged to be sustainable in the long term.
This improvement would be the result of a continued high real export growth
at a rate of about 11% p.a., combined with a significant reduction in real
import growth, to about 7% p.a. The export growth would be contingent on
successful structural adjustment in agriculture (mainly based on improved
incentives) and in industry (based on efficiency improvements). The reduction
in import growth would be related mainly to stagnant or even falling energy
imports. In terms of the savings investment balance, the improvement would be
located predominantly in public sector savings, as a result of an intensive
effort to increase central government revenues from about 14 to 18% of GDP.
There would be a moderate reduction in the overall growth rate, but growth
would still continue at a rate of about 6.5% p.a., quite respectable by
international standards. Provided that the structure of this growth was
appropriate, and that special - but not necessarily very costly - measures
were taken to assist backward areas, where most of the poverty is
concentrated, this scenario was, in the Government-s view, consistent with
continued progress in the alleviation of poverty.
11.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government sought
the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. The structural adjustment program
which is being implemented, with Bank assistance, is described in Part II of
this report, and Government/Fund/Bank relations are discussed in Part III B.
D. Recent Economic Developments and their Implications
12.       Since the decision was taken to implement a broad structural
adjustment program, the state of the Thai economy has been changing quickly,
in response to the rapid deterioration in the external economic environment
and to the changes in domestic policies. After the earlier overheating was
overcome in 1981, the economy weakened significantly in 1982. Inflation was
greatly reduced, with consumers prices increasing by only about 5% in 1982.
Export prices declined, and the decrease in inflationary expectations led to
an inventory adjustment. Private fixed investments, which had already been
stagnating for several years, are estimated to have dropped by 14% in 1982,
which brought them, in real terms, below the 1977 level (17.8% of 1977 GDP,
but only 12.7% of 1982 GDP).  The latest 1982 estimates for growth in



6-
production and real income are about 4% for industry, 0.5% for agriculture
(because of unfavorable weather), 4.5% for GDP and only about 1% in real
national income (given a large deterioration in the external terms of
trade). Thus, for the first time in many years, real per capita incomes
declined.
13.       In 1982, the balance of payments current account deficit wl°I be
considerably smaller than in recent years. Partly because of a high
carryover level of agricultural exportables into the year, export vollmie
continued to grow at a very rapid rate (17%). Because of a large fall in
export prices, export values, however, increased by only 7%. At the same
time, given the squeeze on inventories and private fixed investments, imports
declined by 14% in volume and 7% in value. Consequently, the current account
deficit was reduced from about $2.3 billion (7.1% of GDP) in 1981 to $1.2
billion (3.2% of GDP) in 1982. This is well below the trend assumed for the
Fifth Five Year P'lan and the structural adjustment program. However, this
deviation from the trend is clearly related to the present recessionary
tendencies in the economy, and as the economy revives (even if this goes
together with some recovery in the terms of trade) pressures on the balance of
payments would tend to recur. Thus, a basic strengthening of the current
account of the balance of payments in the medium term remains an important
objective of economic policy. Another important development has been in the
area of the fiscal deficit. As in other countries, this has widened
considerably in FY82 (which ended on September 30, 1982). Compared to actual
FY81 and budgeted FY82 deficits of 2.5-3% of GDP, the actual FY82 deficit is
estimated at over 5% of GDP. The increase can be f-ully attributed to
shortfalls on the revenue side, which in turn can at least partly be related
to lower inflation, lower domestic activity and especially lower imports. IMF
staff estimate that slightly more than half of the shortfall can be attributed
to temporary and reversible factors. Nonetheless, as a result of these
developments, central government revenues, rather than increasing in relation
to GDP as is the objective under the Plan, fell back to a level of only 13.3%
of GDP.
14.       Apart from these actual changes in the world environment and in the
Thai economy, there is also a change in the outlook, at least for the
remaining years of the Plan.  The economic development of the last 15-18
months make the earlier projections for the world economy, for world trade
and for commodity prices now look decidedly optimistic. This affects the
outlook for Thai exports, in terms of volume as well as prices, and thereby
also the country's debt servicing capacity. Budgetary problems have
worsened in many countries and, given also the recent experience in
Thailand, the Government considers the original Plan target of increasing
central government revenues to 18% of GDP by 1986 now to be out of reach. A
critical evaluation of these various factors has led the Government to
conclude that it is necessary to lower the country's sights and reduce the



Fifth Plan's quantitative targets. Thus, the target rates for GDP growth,
investment and government revenue mobilization are being reduced, with CDP
growth for the Plan period as a whole (including 1982) now projected at about
5.5% p.a. Since the Bank's economic report, presently in draft, is
concentrating on macro and public finance issues, the revised Plan framework
will be finalized after the review of that report. In the meantime, it is the
Government's view, however, that the attainment even of reduced Plan targets
will under the presently foreseeable international economic conditions require
further vigorous implementation of the structural adjustment efforts initiated
under the Plan, and the Government has requested continued Bank support in
implementing these policies.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
15.       The Fifth Five-Year Plan provides the broad framework for develop-
ment policies in Thailand over the fiscal years 1982-86. Many of the Plan's
policies and programs have been developed in close cooperation between the
Government and the Bank, and have drawn on Bank reports and documents related
to the structural adjustment issues. Government-Bank cooperation has further
intensified in the context of the development and implementation of the SAL I
and II programs. These programs have attempted to integrate the longer-term
concerns of socio-economic development and equity with improved medium-term
external and internal financial stability. They have concentrated on five
major policy areas in which the Bank has involved itself in the past, and in
which policy reforms are necessary if Thailand is to adjust successfully to
the external and domestic changes of the 1980s.
16.       To summarize the main outlines of the medium-term structural adjust-
ment program, in agriculture it is essential that rapid growth continues even
in the face of gradually reduced availability of new arable land, since
agricultural exports are a major pillar of Thailand's balance of payments, and
a majority of the population is still dependent on farming for its livelihood.
Thus, the structural adjustment program aims at increased farmer incentives
and regularization of the land tenure of a substantial part of the farming
population, issues which are not easily handled in the context of the Bank's
extensive project involvement in the sector. Preparatory work is also being
done towards stimulating fertilizer use and improving water resource
development and management. Industry has until recently been developing
rapidly and has traditionally not suffered from severe distortions.
However, there have been tendencies toward increased protection and ad hoc
application of incentives. A change in the direction of industrial policy
is therefore being undertaken to restore the sector's efficiency and export
orientation, increase its role in supporting the balance of payments and
creating incomes and employment, and improve the efficiency of investment.
In the energy sector, major progress has been made in setting appropriate
price levels. There remain, however, important issues with respect to



- 8 -
relative energy prices, energy conservation and the development of indigenous
energy resources, and an integrated program for policy formulation and
implementation needs to be developed. In the fiscal area, budgetary
deficits and deficiencies in public enterprise management and investment
planning have substantially contributed to the increasing balance of
payments deficits. Apart from the shorter-term fiscal and financial
management issues which are being addressed by the IMF, there is a need for
longer-term fiscal and budgetary reforms. These will serve the objectives of
development as welL as financial balance, recognizing that the private sector
in agriculture and industry is the engine of growth in Thailand and that
fiscal policy must therefore minimize its possible disincentive effects.
Finally, since the success of many elements in the structural adjustment
program depends on effective institutional development, the program aims to
improve the efficiency of resource management in the public sector, and the
creation of additional analytical and policy implementation capabilities in
the Government. The program for SAL I included substantial measures in all
these areas, not only with regard to policy actions, but also with regard to
the preparation of phased implementation programs for the future, and to
further policy studies to prepare for later actions.
17.       Since the first SAL was approved by the Board in March 1982, the
Government has given high priority to the implementation of its major policy
provisions. The Economic Committee of the Cabinet was given the guiding role
in implementing the country s structural adjustment program, and this led to
substantial improvements in policy coordination at the senior level, as well
as to increased involvement of core agencies in fields which previously were
considered to be the sole prerogative of specialized agencies.  At the staff
level, however, program implementation was in a number of instances slow in
starting, and as a result it was not possible to complete all studies and
program development items under SAL I; some of these therefore will be
continued under SAL II. The following sections enumerate the progess made
under SAL I and describe the actions programmed under SAL II in each of the
policy areas.
18.       With regard to the main thrust of the SAL II program, the recent
developments in the international and domestic economy and their effect on
the fiscal situation have highlighted the need for increased efficiency in
the utilization of resources. Thus, the core program for SAL II puts
particular emphasis on carrying further the longer term SAL programs to
improve overall public sector management and efficiency in public resource
use, and to rationalize private sector investment incentives. In addition,
important longer term programs or phased policy reforms started under SAL I
will be carried forward and some new activities initiated. Finally, a sub-
stantial number of studies and phased action programs are to be completed, to
form the basis for further structural adjustment during the third and fourth
years of the Fifth Plan.



- 9 -
B. Fiscal and Budgetary Policies
19.       Overview.  In Thailand, the central Government has gradually
increased its participation in the socio-economic development of the country
As a result, its expenditures have increased from about 16% to 18% of GDP
between the early 1970s and early 1980s. At the same time, central Government
revenues have stagnated at a level of 12-14% of GDP, due to a low income
elasticity of the tax system, which in turn can mainly be traced to a heavy
reliance on indirect taxes and weaknesses in tax coverage and administration.
Outside the central Government, there have been recurrent difficulties in
reflecting public enterprises cost increases in their tariffs, and some of
these enterprises have also been able to i-mplement major investment programs
without systematic constraints being imposed in the context of the
determination of national priorities. As a result of these and some other
factors, the public sector savings-investment balance has deteriorated
substantially since the mid-1970s, and this has translated itself more or less
directly into an increasing balance of payments deficit and a rapidly rising
public foreign debt.
20.       To deal with these exigencies, the Fifth Five-Year Plan developed a
strategy under which the rise in central government expenditures would be
mitigated, while tax revenues would be increased. However, initially not much
progress was made in translating this strategy into a concrete phased action
plan. It was agreed, however, that this would be done under SAL I, in the
context of the preparation of a phased implementation program for the
attainment of the Fifth Plan targets for the entire public sector. Other
important elements of the SAL I fiscal program were the implementation of a
tax package, initial improvements in tax administration in the Revenue
Department, and substantial increases in public enterprise tariffs, followed
by the preparation of a phased program for further rate increases for major
public enterprises.
21.       All the above objectives were accomplished, except that, while
financial program development for the public sector was undertaken, with Bank
assistance, its completion was delayed because the international and domestic
economic recession, with its consequent shortfall in public sector revenues,
necessitated a reassessment of the overall strategy. However, in December
1982/January 1983 the government for the first time drew together the major
strands of tax, investment and current expenditure forecasts and policies, for
the rest of the Plan period, in the light of the newest developments and
prospects. Another recent accomplishment was the introduction of a large tax
package (developed in consultation with the Fund) at the beginning of FY83.
Prospective fiscal measures under SAL II include additional activities in
fiscal planning, tax policy and administration, expenditure policy, state
enterprise financing and management and external debt management as
discussed in more detail below.



- 10 -
22.       Creation of a Medium-Term Fiscal Framework.  It has become
increasingly clear that one of the factors contributing to the gradual
emergence of large public sector deficits has been the absence of a
term overall fiscal framework which would show the direction in whicir!,
public sector as a whole was heading. This deficiency is now being remediec
under SAL. Progress has been made in the areas of revenue forecast½ig and
planning, tax policy formulation, current expenditure forecasting and
investment planning, as described further in subsequent paragrap-phs. is the
context of the preparation of its current economic report, the Bank assis.ed
the Government in this fiscal planning exercise, and especially contr-btod
to the review of the investment program of the Government and major p-Ub _.'
enterprises. Recently, the Government's main agencies concerned with thiese
issues - the Ministry of Finance, NESDB and Budget Bureau - have drawn the
various elements of this exercise together, and for the first time produced
a medium-term program that is the result of an interagency effort. Also,
while earlier only general targets for revenue mobilization had been set,
and sectoral expenditure allocations had not been matched with agency needs,
the present program is based on concrete proposals for revenue mobilization
and constrains the expenditures on agency programs and projects within the
available domestic resources (including acceptable deficits) and foreign
borrowing plan. While, under the institutional component of the SAL,
systems are being put in place to develop three-year rolling investment and
borrowing plans, iit is important that work on this first plan has already
been ongoing; thus the planning systems are not developed in the abstract.
Another important benefit of this exercise is the close interaction and
coordination that has developed between the core agencies in assessing the
resource position under rapidly changing international and domestic
circumstances and adjusting expenditures and priorities accordingly.
23.       During the rest of Thailand's FY83, the fiscal planning effort will
be extended and refined, and the finances of public enterprises and major
extra-budgetary funds incorporated in the overall picture. To improve the
government-s capacity in this field, the Government will also by mid-1983
develop a program to strengthen the role of the Fiscal Policy Office in the
Ministry of Finance as a central fiscal planning unit.
24.       Tax Policy and Administration.  Before the Government formulated its
medium-term fiscal framework, it was already addressing tax policy issues over
a broad front. To increase actual tax revenues, substantial tax packages were
introduced, with estimated yields of 0.5 and 1.0% of GDP, respectively, in FYs
82 and 83 (the latter include a one-year surcharge of 10% on existing import
duties). In the course of FY83, the Government intends to undertake limited
additional revenue measures. These various actions clearly underline the
Government-s commitment to increased resource mobilization, even though actual
revenue collections have in FY82 fallen back to 13.3,Y of GDP (after reaching
14.1% of GDP in 1981), partly as a result of cyclical and incidental
factors, and partly due to reduced agricultural export taxation in the face
of low export prices. In addition to the FY83 tax package, the Government
will under SAL II continue its substantial efforts on the tax administration
side in the Revenue Department, - which are estimated to have increased



- 11 -
income tax revenues by Baht 1.6 billion in FY82 alone - and extend them to
the customs and excise departments.  In this area, where the IMF has been
providing substantial technical assistance since 1977, the SAL I program,
which was mainly aimed at decentralization and reorganization of the tax
offices in Bangkok, has been implemented well ahead of schedule.  As a
complement to its increased revenue enforcement efforts under SAL II, and also
to formulate and implement a tax arrears policy, the Government has in October
1982 established a high-level committee on tax rulings. In the context of its
medium-term tax reform program, which is aimed at improved efficiency,
elasticity and equity, the Government also intends, during 1983, to initiate a
phased program for simplification of business taxes and excise duties, to make
selected revisions in the revenue code and customs laws, to enact a new
consolidated excise tax law, and to initiate a study on the feasibility of
introducing value-added taxation on selected items. Also, following up on the
recommendations of Bank and other reports, the Government will by September
1983 develop a program to improve the yield and elasticity of local taxes,
fees and charges. This will include the establishment of a Central Valuation
Authority, which will update land and housing valuation and tax rates, and the
creation of a local tax division in the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the
Government will in 1983 set up a training institute for tax officials.
25.        In the context of the development of its medium-term overall fiscal
strategy, the Government has recently revised its revenue mobilization
targets, and indicated how it intends to realize them. Even though the
circumstances in FY82 were exceptional, and a tax package expected to yield 1%
of GDP was introduced in FY83, it was clear that an exceptional tax effort
would be needed to increase the tax/GDP ratio from 13.3% in 1982 to the
original target of 18% in 1986. Apart from the political and technical
feasibility of such an effort, it was also questionable whether it would not
unduly reduce the incentives to the private sector, which still has to recover
from the 1982 recession and to revive its investment activity. Thus the
Government has decided to moderate its target to 16-17% of GDP by FY86 (and to
moderate its expenditures accordingly). Since, according to the Government's
best estimates, the elasticity of the present tax system is about unity, this
implies that the full relative increase in tax revenues will have to be
realized through policy interventions. Accordingly, the objective now is to
introduce discretionary tax increases yielding an additional 6, 7 and 8
billion baht respectively in FYs 84, 85 and 86, so that by FY86 tax revenues
will be 21 billion baht higher than they otherwise would have been. About 40%
of this increase (8.5 billion baht) will be realized through improved
administration of direct taxes, approximately evenly divided between personal
and corporate income taxes. The remainder is targeted to be collected from
tax base expansions in the personal income tax and rationalization, rate
changes and reduction of evasion in business and excise taxes. The overall
effect of these measures would not only be a direct increase in revenue, but
also an improvement in the tax structure in terms of a shift from indirect to
direct taxes and a consequent increase in the elasticity of the tax system.



- 12 -
26.       Investment Priorities and Current Expenditures Policy.  Substantial
work has been ongoing in the reassessment of investment priorities.  The NESDB
has, in cooperaL-ion with the Budget Bureau, been working on the preparation of
a first three-year rolling public investment plan (including public enter-
prise, and the link to the foreign borrowing program).  Specifically, the
major components of the public sector investment program, including those in
power, other energy, railways, ports and other transport, agriculture and
social sectors have been under review, with Bank assistance. Most public
enterprise programs in the "hard" sectors, which were overly ambitious, have
been scaled down significantly, and as a result good progress has been made
towards the identification of a program of essential investments, including
those in the social sectors, that can be effectively protected under a
situation of resource scarcity. These issues are an essential focal point of
the Bank's draft economic report wn±ich will be discussed with the Government
in April 1983. Similar to the investment analysis, the Budget Bureau has,
with Bank assistance, initiated the analysis of recent and prospective
recurrent expenditure trends. Management tools for the identification of
expenditure priorities will however only gradually improve in the context of
the introduction of program budgeting concepts under the institutional
component of the SAL.
27.       In view of the difficulties in determining expenditure levels and
priorities, especially in the medium term, the recent Government overall
fiscal planning effort has derived expenditures as a residual, on the basis of
feasible revenue mobilization objectives and allowable budgetary deficits.
With regard to the latter, it is the Government's intention to bring the
central government deficit of over 5% of GDP in FY82 down to about 3.5% in
FY83. The policy objective for FY86 is to reduce this further to make room
for a resurgence in private investment. The Bank's analysis for the economic
report indicates that, with increased central government revenue mobilization
as discussed above, and prudent public enterprise iinvestments, a central
government defic-it of around 2% of GDP would be macro-economically sustainable
while allowing the Government's essential programs to be safeguarded.
28.       Apart from the normal budgetary receipts and expenditures, payments
are being made into and out of a number of extra-budgetary funds. Under
SAL I, a review was initiated of the operations and effectivenes of these
funds. The preliminary findings indicate that they, do not constitute a major
problem of overall public sector or macro-economic management, but that it is
still necessary to investigate, for the more important funds, whether they
continue to perform an appropriate function, operate efficiently and should
continue to exist as separate entities. Accordingly, under SAL II, the
operations of the 10-12 major funds (out of a total of nearly 100) will be
reviewed, and appropriate recommendations implemented as the reviews proceed.
29.       State Enterprises.  By international standards, Thailand's public
enterprise sector is small and heavily concentrated in infrastructure. It has
recently been growing rapidly, however, with investments increasing from 2.5%
of GDP in 1977 to 4% in 1981.  Thus it is important to ensure that the sector



- 13 -
is managed efficiently. Substantial parts of it are; for instance, the power
sector, which accounted for about half of state enterprise investment in 1981
and 1982, is generally considered well-managed and is now earning an accep-
table rate of return. Other state enterprises are however perceived to suffer
from inefficiency and mismanagement, and important ones have been incurring
operational losses as a result of these problems and a reluctance to raise
tariffs. While there are units in the Comptroller General's Department of the
Ministry of Finance, and in NESDB, which are dealing with the state enterprise
sector, problems have persisted. To address these issues, a study will be
performed in 1983 to identify institutional mechanisms which can enhance
efficiency without undue interference with state enterprise management. With
regard to its basic attitude towards public enterprises, the Government has
announced that no new public enterprises which compete with the private sector
will be set up in future, and that all purely commercially-oriented public
enterprises will have to stand on their own feet or be liquidated.
Accordingly, the Government will in 1983 formulate an action program to
implement this policy.
30.       Concerning public utilities, which often have a public service
function specified by law, the Government will during 1983 determine which
utilities it will, for economic, social or political reasons, allow to earn
less than an appropriate return on its assets, and to what extent. In seeking
a balance between economic and social aspects, the Government will, however,
give preponderant weight to financial considerations. In effect, a similar
approach was followed at the onset of the Government's adjustment program,
when not only power rates were increased in a number of successive steps, but
also charges for other public services (water, transport, communications) were
increased substantially (mostly by at least 50%). As a result, operational
losses of the public utilities incurring such losses are now limited to about
0.4% of GDP; they are offset by operational profits in other utilities (mainly
power and communications) which are nearly three times as high. Under SAL I,
a schedule for the further improvement of public utilities' finances was drawn
up, which called for implementation in two phases, the first one in late
1982/early 1983, and the second one in late 1983. The Cabinet endorsed this
program and made an attempt to depoliticize the necessary tariff increases in
the sensitive transport, water and communication sectors by coupling them to a
requirement to improve operational efficiency, and by putting the
responsibility for improved financial performance on the shoulders of the
enterprises and their overseeing ministries (under general guidance of the
Ministry of Finance) without having to seek Cabinet approval on individual
rate increases. On the side of efficiency improvement (a necessary
precondition for tariff increases in the view of the public) a determined
effort is being made, subjecting major state enterprises to a comprehensive
program of efficiency-enhancing measures, and bringing in capable managers on
the recommendation of a special committee established for that purpose. The
implementation of the rate increases has, however, temporarily been suspended,
pending the resolution of a dispute on bus fare increases, which is being



- 14 -
investigated by a Committee instituted by the Prime Minister. Given that the
financial condition of important public utilities will continue to deteriorate
unless determined action is taken, the Government will by July 1983 have
finalized, with Bank assistance, a comprehensive assessment of their current
and projected losses, developing specific financial targets over the medium
term. During 1983, a program to reduce these losses through improved
efficiency and rate increases will be implemented.
31.       External Debt Management.  To improve external debt management the
Government has in July 1982 announced new regulations governing external
borrowing. In October 1982 a high level committee on external borrowing
policies and criteria was established to formulate the 5th plan borrowing
targets, and consider and implement annual borrowing plans. The foreign
borrowing program has been integrated into the investment program for the rest
of the Fifth Plan period, which was developed in the context of the overall
fiscal strategy. From now on three-year rolling foreign borrowing programs
will be maintained.  As part of SAL II, the Government has also drawn up a
program to improve the external debt data base and analysis, major parts of
which will be implemented during 1983. By May 1983 a program to improve
interagency procedures for optimal external resource mobilization and use
(taking account of different degrees of concessionality) will have been
developed.
C. Institutional Development
32.       Overview.  The success of the Thai Governmnent-s structural
adjustment program depends to a large extent on the capacity of the Thai
bureaucracy to devise and implement the macro and sectoral policies outlined
in this report, and to utilize the country's public resources efficiently.
These are largely new tasks and challenges, which are difficult to accomplish
under present, andl in many respects outdated, management systems and adminis-
trative practices. The Government has recognized this situation and is
giving high priority to strengthening public sector development management
as an integral part of its structural adjustment program. This involves in
the first place a total restructuring and modernization of its system of
financial and administrative controls (planning, budgeting, accounting, and
auditing), so as to better integrate its various components and making it
more responsive to top-level management direction. This change is expected
to take up to five years to implement. A second, less extensive area of
institutional improvement is the improvement and coordination of economic
management and public policy research and analysis. Progress in the first
year of these programs has generally been satisfactory, as consultants have
prepared the ground for the major changes in the management systems. Under
the second SAL, the Government plans to maintain the momentum of actions
begun under SAL I.



- 1 5 -
33.       Systemic Changes.  Under the first SAL, in 1981, the Government
initiated a review of the present planning, budgeting, accounting and auditing
systems with a view to improving the allocation and utilization of resources.
It engaged an international consulting firm, financed by USAID, to analyze
the existing systems and to formulate necessary changes. Four teams from
one consultant firm have been working with counterparts from NESDB, the
Budget Bureau, Comptroller General½s Department and Office of the Auditor
General to ensure that system improvements are mutually compatible and are
implemented in a coordinated manner.
34.       In the area of planning, the Government's aim has been:  to design
and install in NESDB a medium term planning and sectoral programming system
and a uniform project preparation and appraisal system linked to the
introduction of program budgeting throughout the government; to clarify
roles and responsibilities of planning units at each level of government; to
examine the adequacy of existing monitoring and evaluation systems and
install improved systems; and to determine appropriate organization and
staffing arrangements for NESDB and other planning bodies. The design work
on a uniform project preparation and appraisal system and a rolling invest-
ment plan has been completed and is presently being reviewed internally by
NESDB, on the basis of the experience gained in the recent investment plan-
ning effort (see para. 26). The systems will be implemented in 1983. Also,
by December 1983 NESDB will have completed the feasibility study for
establishing a pre-investment fund in conjunction with the project
preparation and appraisal system. This fund will finance high priority
sector studies and feasibility studies within the context of the Fifth Plan.
35.       The roles and responsibilities of planning units at each level of
government will be fully clarified only when the new systems being introduced
in NESDB and the Budget Bureau are in place. In the meantime, the responsi-
bilities at the various levels within the government will be made consistent
with the new systems of project preparation, investment planning and budget-
ing. In the longer term, it will be necessary to introduce organizational and
legislative changes to define the responsibilities for both planning and
budgeting at the provincial level (currently under the Ministry of Interior).
The NESDB has also completed a reorganization study, has begun a study on
appropriate staffing arrangements, both medium- and long-term, and has
initiated similar work for ministerial planning units. Furthermore, to
strengthen its overall role in Plan implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, the NESDB has prepared a detailed work program for this area and
will begin to implement it in 1983.
36.       As in the case of planning, strengthening of the budgetary process
has been given great importance by the Government. Its efforts in this area
are aimed at introducing, by FY84, the program budgeting approach throughout
the government and simultaneously reducing counter-productive budgetary



- 16 -
controls in the existing system. After some initial delays, the Budget Bureau
in FY83 made substantial reductions in such budgetary controls. The Budget
Bureau is thus in the process of overhauling both the budget allocation and
budget execution procedures. It has also decentralized provincial budgetary
procedures and relaxed some central budgetary controls during the execution
period. While considerable controls by line item of expenditure still remain,
further major reductions are unlikely until the program budget system has been
effectively implemented.
37.       To ensure smooth and efficient adoption of the program budgeting
system, the Budget Bureau has also taken a number of steps related to
information flow, training and monitoring and evaluiation.   A computerized
management information center will provide basic information for the control
and supervision of all operations. Presently the Blureau is completing an
analysis of expenditures and commitments that is being computerized. Since
application of program budgeting is planned for FY84, the Budget Bureau
recognizes the need for broad based training on the new concepts.
Identification of training needs will be completed by April 1983 and implemen-
tation will begin by July. In the area of monitoring and evaluation, the
Budget Bureau has established a system to measure the progress of projects on
a trimester basis. A study has been initiated by the Bureau to examine the
framework of a more comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system that would
assess the results and impact of the annual budget. Recommendations of the
study will be implemented during 1983. Changes in the Budget Bureau's systems
for monitoring and evaluation of financial allocations are intended to comple-
ment the NESDB's proposed new systems for the monitoring and evaluation of
project and plan implementation.
38.       Toward modernizing its accounting systems, the Government has
launched a comprehensive review of existing accounting procedures, staffing,
equipment and preauditing systems. In October 1982, a special report was
prepared by consultants to immediately improve reporting from the provincial
treasury offices to Bangkok.  By March 1983 the Comptroller General's
Department will review this report and start to implement its recommendations.
The master report dealing with required changes in the basic accounting
systems and financial regulations of the central government is now being
completed by the consultants in stages and submitted to the Comptroller
General's Department for review. All these changes are being coordinated with
the introduction of the program budgeting approach. It requires the redesign
of the entire system, preparation of system specifications, software and
training - and is expected to take about two years to complete.
39.       The Government has also been preparing itself for the introduction
of performance auditing in the Office of the Auditor General, thus linking the
auditing function to the introduction of the program budgeting system. To
date, it has completed the design of the system and prepared the operations
manual. During the first quarter of FY83, the consultants will introduce the
auditors to the new system and, by the end of the second quarter, the system



- 17 -
will become operational. Traditionally, the Office of the Auditor General has
conducted only financial audits. Clearly the two types of audits need to be
consolidated into a comprehensive audit system. Personnel training to
implement this has already started. To determine the alternative mechanisms
available for introducing a comprehensive audit systems the Government will,
under SAL II, carry out a feasibility study in 1983 which would look into ways
and means of strengthening the internal audit functions in ministries and
state enterprises.
40.       Strengthening Development Management.  Aside from introducing major
systemic changes in the administrative process, the Government and the Bank
have also identified a number of development management issues which need to
be addressed. These include the organization, compensation and personnel
management of the civil service, an extension of the capacity for policy
formulation and analysis, and the creation of a proper organization of the
structural adjustment process.
41.       Work on the organization, compensation and personnel management of
the civil service was initiated under SAL I. In September 1982, an
interagency steering committee was established to oversee the conduct of
these studies, which it decided to consolidate into one. Terms of reference
have been finalized and now also include the identification of weaknesses of
the governmental machinery in departmental reoganization procedures and
processes. The study will be performed in the second half of 1983.
42.       In the area of policy analysis and formulation, the Government has
encountered difficulties in establishing an independent research/development
institution, as the Juridical Council concluded that if public funds would be
used for this purpose the institute had to be constituted as a state
enterprise. Neither the Government nor the Bank are supportive of this
concept. As an alternative mechanism the Government has decided to
strengthen the NESDB's capacity to coordinate and manage the conduct of this
important activity. Under the new approach, outside research institutes and
universities would be contracted to perform the actual studies, while NESDB
would provide the Plan perspective, priorities and possibly, funding. The
creation of a pre-investment fund in NESDB (see para. 34 above) would
complement this objective.
43.       With regard to the management of the structural adjustment process,
the policy level structure is in place; the Chairman of the Policy Level
Committee is the Prime Minister and other representatives include members of
the Economic Cabinet with the Secretary General of NESDB as Secretary. Under
SAL II, the Government has set up a Subcommitee with the Secretary General of
NESDB as Chairman and the Director General of the Fiscal Policy Office as
Vice Chairman and with representatives of the agencies involved in structural
adjustment as members. This subcommittee is responsible for the transmission
of and guidance to core and line agencies on the decisions taken by the Policy
Committee. To assist the Policy Committee and Subcommittee, the Government



- 18 -
has decided to establish a joint Secretariat in NESDB and the Fiscal Policy
Office of the Ministry of Finance with full time staff to monitor and review
progress in the implementation of studies, program development and actions
agreed upon under the structural adjustment loans. The Secretariat will be
responsible for providing staff work to the committees and for preparing
reports on the implementation of the structural adjustment program. Over the
longer run, the Government proposes to integrate the structural adjustment
implementation mechanism into a much broader framework for Plan
implementation, monitoring and review.
D. Industrial Policy
44.       Overview.  Industry will in future have to play an increasing role
in the creation of incomes and employment in Thailand, since agriculture
will be less able to absorb labor force growth. Since the mid-1970s,
however, there have been factors potentially inhibiting that role, as
industrial protection has increased, inappropriate investment incentives
have been applied, and there has been a tendency to seek Government support
of large, capital-intensive projects. At the same time, a cohesive,
integrated approach to industrial policy has been lacking; many agencies
were involved, but with little effort at coordination.
45.       The main thrust of the Government-s industrial restructuring pro-
gram under the Fifth Plan is to reverse these trends through better policy
coordination, and reforms in the protective structure, the incentive system,
the screening of large investments, and policies for export promotion.
These reforms, a first phase of which was begun under SAL I, will require a
period of 4-5 years to be fully implemented.  One of the most important
accomplishments during the SAL I period was that wide-ranging discussions
on industrial policies were initiated - which included the private sector -
and that these debates resulted in a substantial degree of agreement on the
need for efficient industrial development in line with the industrial
restructuring program. As far as the most important concrete policy measures
were concerned, taxes on production for export were removed, there was a
significant reduction in the range of protective tariffs across the board,
an important program for sector-by-sector analysis and rationalization of
incentives was started, and very cautious policies were followed with
regard to large-scale projects, subjecting them to careful economic scrutiny.
Under SAL II, the most important addition will be the start of a longer-term
program towards rationalization of the investment incentives. In addition,
further steps will be taken towards reducing the level and spread of effective
protection and towards export stimulation, while the policies with regard
to the large projects will be continued.
46.       Industrial Policy Formulation.  As envisaged under the SAL I
program, the Government has created an institutional framework for industrial
restructuring policy formulation and implementation. The interdepartmental



- 19 -
group of senior policy level officials, drawn from agencies concerned it"h <-l
industrial sector in Thailand, who were earlier involved with the articulatior
of industrial strategy of the Fifth Plan, has now been formalized in a perma-
nent Industrial Restructuring Committee.  The Committee has been operative  orn
most of 1982 and will continue to be responsible for implementing and mon:tor-
ing industrial policy reforms under SAL II.
47.       Export Promotion.  As envisaged in SAL I, considerable progress has
been made in improving the system of export incentives. Following legislative
changes, the Ministry of Finance has implemented the Export Tax Refund and
Import Duty Drawback schemes based on ad valorem rates, refunding various
kinds of taxes paid by export producers such as excise taxes, import duties-
business and municipal taxes and other fees and charges on inputs used in
export production. Further, to improve the administration of these schemes,
the Ministry has streamlined its customs and tax refund procedures. Negative
protection to exports has thus been reduced, and some incentives are being
granted by the Board of Investments (BOI) for export production and trading.
In addition to these policy changes, the Government has undertaken direct
export promotion activities, including the establishment in February 1982 of
an Export Development Fund to provide financial support to the export
promotion efforts of the Ministry of Commerce. Other such activities in
progress are the upgrading of the status and functions of the Export Service
Centers which provide marketing assistance to mainly new and small exporters,
and the setting up of additional export centers and liaison offices.  Approval
procedures are being simplified for establishing additional bonded warehouses.
of which 15 were operating in 1982. Thus, under SAL I, considerable progress
has been achieved in respect of policies and measures for export development.
48.       For the next phase of policy support to export development, under
SAL II, further policy formulation and strengthening of related institutions
are envisaged. The Government intends to establish credit and guarantee
schemes for exporters, especially to new markets and in non-traditional export
items. Since the establishment of this facility would involve new operationsi
arrangements in the financial system of Thailand, and would require participa-
tion of leading financial institutions as well as the Government, progress is
likely to be slow. The Bank is assisting the Government through a comprehen-
sive review of the financial sector of Thailand, and is also engaged in
evaluating the feasibility of establishing a broad-based credit guarantee
scheme through an industrial credit project under preparation. The Govern-
ment, for its part, will by October 1983 review the feasibility of implement-
ing the export credit and guarantee scheme. The creation of physical facilli
ties and institutions for export processing zones are also, by nature,
long-term activities which require careful planning and packaging. The
Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand will undertake a long-term program of
setting up industrial estates to house the export processing zones, possibly
with Bank assistance.
49.       Reform of the Protective Structure.  The Government has reaffirmed
on various occasions its intention to reform the protective structure and has
also taken concrete actions over the past year. However, as anticipated in



- 20 -
SAL I, given the magnitude and complexity of the reforms, the overlapping
interests of strong pressure groups, and the far-reaching fiscal implications,
changes in the protective structure are proving to be a difficult and lengthy
process. The phased approach adopted by the Government, buttressed by
detailed studies on major implications of the reforms, and by subsector
studies which identify the best way to proceed in the case of major
industries, has turned out to be the most practical way of dealing with
changes in the protective structure.
50.       Under SAL I, the Government has narrowed the range of tariffs by
reducing nominal tariffs higher than 60% (which were mostly at 80-100%) down
to 60% and increasing zero or near-zero tariffs to a level of 5 to 10%, with
few exceptions. Specifically, tariffs were reduced on 270 categories of
imported goods to the level of 60%, adjusted (mostly downward) on 170
categories of imported goods towards a nominal 30% rate, and introduced on
certain items that were previously exempted. These tariff changes affect
about 40% of non-oil commodity imports.  At the same time, the Government
announced exemptions on a few items involving medical goods and chemicals;
introduced a temporary import surcharge of 10% of the assessed import duty on
all imports primarily for revenue generation and announced import surcharges
on a few items under the package of BOI incentives. The Government has,
nonetheless, confirmed that these temporary surchaLrges will not be allowed to
undermine the tariff reform process. Meanwhile, an earlier import surcharge
earmarked to finance the Export Development Fund has been removed. Overall,
there has been a clear trend towards liberalization of imports, and, as a
long-term objective, a move towards more uniform nominal and effective
tariffs. While some exceptions to the general tariff reforms are unavoidable,
the Government has maintained that these will be granted only in exceptional
cases so that the general tariff measures are not rendered meaningless, and
nontariff restrictions will not be modified in a manner to compensate for
general tariff reforms.
51.       In addition to the tariff reforms, the Government has also taken
actions regarding quantitative restrictions and other non-tariff measures
as part of the reform of the protective structure. In any case, compared to
tariffs, nontariff restrictions in Thailand are not important in providing
protection, except in the case of the automotive industry which is now
targeted for a major restructuring effort over the next couple of years.
In August 1982, the Government decided to freeze the local content program
for cars at the level of 45% (rather than continue to apply its earlier
schedule for continued increases).
52.       As agreed under SAL I, the Government has carried out a policy
feasibility study of tariff reforms in the electronics and electrical goods
subsector. The study was completed in August 1982 and its recommendations
were subsequently adopted by the Cabinet. The Cabinet has instructed all
agencies concerned to implement the subsector tariff restructuring program
in 1983, specifically to: (a) lower tariff rates for electrical consumer
products to 30% (40% for air conditioners), by 1985; (b) adjust tariff rates
by 1985 for locally produced components to 20% and for basic parts to 5-10%;
(c) increase the tariff rates for nonconsumer products to 30% if the rates



are below that level; (d) lower business tax rates for consumer products to
7%; and (e) implement various measures to assist the subsector in investment,
exports, technology transfer, and government procurement as detailed in the
subsector study. Even while the subsector study on electrical goods was in
progress, the Government already implemented substantial parts of the reconr-
mendations and thereby moved ahead into the SAL II phase.
53.       For the subsequent phase of the reforms, during SAL II, the
Government has indicated that it will undertake further changes in the tariff
and nontariff restrictions, which will result in general reforms, as well as
specific changes at the subsector level. The latter, however, will require
in-depth analysis of further subsectors so as to identify the best way to
proceed with specific reforms. The Government has recently finalized an
arrangement with UNDP/UNIDO to assist with these studies on priority
subsectors in accordance with a program adopted under SAL I. Under this
arrangement, a study has begun on the automotive industry which is an
important and highly visible industrial subsector, and has been selected for
restructuring over the next few years. In addition, similar work will be
undertaken on chemicals, plastic products and textile industries during 1983;
this will also include an assessment of the investment incentives being
provided by the BOI. For subsequent phases, subsector studies are programmmed
for steel products, machinery and other equipment. It is expected that, as
these studies progress, covering a large proportion of Thai industrial sector,
it will become possible to merge the actions under them with the current
efforts to rationalize the incentives and the protective structure across the
entire industrial sector.
54.       In summary, the Government-s policy to reform the protective
structure is now well entrenched and has gained considerable momentum over
the past year.  The Government is eager to maintain this momentum, and push
forward with this task within the constraints that the Thai economy is facing.
The Government has also indicated that on occasion it may be necessary, given
the international and domestic economic situation, to impose temporary tariff
increases on specific products in response to changes in Thailand's
international competitive position, and to serve other priority policy
objectives. But it is the Governments firm intention not to allow these
temporary interventions to become permanent.
55.       Investment Incentives.  Investment incentives are administered
mainly by the BOI, with some overlapping responsibilities vested in the
Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Industry. The existing system of these
incentives has raised many concerns which were investigated in depth in a
major study, completed in MIarch 1982, under the UNDP/IBRD technical assistance
to the BOI. It involved a detailed analysis of the investment incentives
package, its impact on investment decisions, and the functions and procedures
of BOI regarding implementation and administration of the incentives. The
main findings of the study were that, with few exceptions, the incentives have
tended to reinforce existing distortions in the industrial sector, favoring
capital use relative to labor, import substitution over exporting, and



- 22 -
location in and around Bangkok rather than decentralized locations.  These
distortions stem not only from the nature of the investment incentives
themselves, but also from their discretionary application by the BOV-
56.       In September 1981, the Government appointed a Cabinet Committee to
review the BOI operations and propose the next steps of policy reform- On
its recommendation, the Council of Economic Ministers decided in August 1982
to revise the investment incentive structure in such a way as to support the
major objectives of industrial restructuring.  This will include a move away
from the present discretionary arrangements towards a system with a greater
degree of automaticity in granting the incentives and pri-vileges. r:e
incentives will be designed on a sectoral or subsector basis in line with the
policy of industrial restructuring, including promotion of exports, reduction
in capital intensity and encouragement to foreign investment.
57.       After a change in the BOI's top management, in October 1982, the
Prime Minister appointed an Executive Board of BOI consisting of senior
officials of various agencies concerned, with the aim of expediting the
backlog of BOI's normal promotional activities as well as implementation of
the reforms. This Executive Board is empowered to decide on all aspects of
investment promotion except for very large projects of national importance.
The key members of the Executive Board support the reforms in BOs'S operat-
ing policies. With these arrangements in place, the Government recently
has started to implement substantial reforms in the investment incentives.
As a first step, it published general investment criteria, folloving the major
objectives of the Fifth Plan, and thereby significantly reduced tne scope for
administrative discretion. While the new guidelines may still need further
streamlining, the, fact alone that they are now in the public domain is a major
step forward.
58.       In addition to the above, the BOI has started to formulate an Action
Plan in accordance with the Cabinet guidelines, drawing upon the review and
analysis of the UNDP/IBRD study, to improve its capabilities to undertake
new activities and to design uniform incentive packages on a sectoral
basis. The main outlines of the Action Plan have been identified, but further
establishment of priorities and phasing is still underway and will be final-
ized by May 1983. Important parts of the program will then be implemented
by the end of the year. Also some elements of the Action Plan have
significant fiscal implications, and their implementation would be based on
the result of a study to assess their fiscal impact, initiated by the BOI anad
the Ministry of Finance.
59.       Large Projects.  Given Thailand's limited resources and the
magnitude of investments required for several large projects under
consideration, it is imperative that these projects are economically viable.
The Government is keen to avoid costly mistakes.  It has sought technical
advice on these projects from various sources including the Bank, the IFC,
and major industrial groups both in Thailand and overseas. This effort was
inspired by the concern that the financial profitability of large industrial



- 23 -
projects, though mostly undertaken in the private sector, may be assured by
effective protection and the incentives package, but that their economic
viability may be uncertain. The Government, therefore, is undertaking
economic evaluation of all major projects for which promotional incentives
or public participation are sought.
60.       The Government has set up an inter-departmental committee chaired
by the Prime Minister to oversee large projects but, in view of the lack of
technical expertise, the present case-by-case approach to economic project
evaluation appears to be the only practical solution in the short term. The
recently established Center for Integrated Plan of Operation within the NESDB
is coordinating the preparation of the Eastern Seaboard Development Program
which consists of several large-scale industrial projects in addition to
programs for infrastructure development, and which must be evaluated as an
interrelated program package. The Bank's experience with this center as a
planning and evaluation agency for a large investment program involving both
the public and private sectors has been encouraging. It has recently invited
proposals from competent consulting firms to do in-depth technical and
economic review of the large-scale projects under active consideration
(mainly in, but not necessarily limited to, the industrial sector).
Meanwhile, its approach to projects such as fertilizer and petrochemicals has
been very cautious. The Government, however, recognizes the need to increase
its capacity to perform at least a preliminary evaluation of large projects,
so as to be able to choose the projects for in-depth investigation more
selectively. To identify the ways and means to establish such a capacity, a
study will be performed in 1983.
E. Energy Use and Development
61.       Overview.  Over the last decade, the rapid growth of the Thai
economy and underpricing of energy have led to a steep rise in overall
energy consumption, from 7.4 million tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to 15.6
million tons in 1979, when oil accounted for about 75% of total energy
consumption. Most of the increase in energy consumption took the form of
imported crude oil and petroleum products. Given renewed petroleum price
increases, the petroleum import bill of 1981 amounted to almost $3 billion,
or about 30% of total import value (as compared with 9% in 1970) and 45% of
total export earnings.
62.       Under the Fifth Five-Year Plan, rapid development of indigenous
energy supply and improved efficiency in energy consumption are to enable
greatly reduced dependence on petroleum imports. In fact, since 1979, there
have been only modest increases in total energy consumption, mainly as a
result of domestic energy price increases, and of the overall economic
slowdown. The large across-the-board energy price increases actually
initiated the structural adjustment process; between March 1979 and October
1981 they amounted to about 120%.



- 24 -
63.       After overall energy prices had been brought to an appropriate
level, the three remaining areas of structural adjustment in the energy
sector are: rationalization of the relative prices of various sources of
energy; improvement in the energy-use efficiency in the economy; and
coordinationL of policies and investments in the energy sector.  The first
SAL concentrated on a program of studies and strategy formulation in these
areas. Under the second SAL, these activities will be continued, action
programs based on the studies will be prepared, and actions which do not
need to await the study results will be implemented. In addition, as
reported under the fiscal section, a review of the investment program for
the public sector has taken place, which has resulted in a significant
downward adjustment in the programs for the energy sector.
64.       Energy Pricing and Taxation.  As of October 1982, average power
tariffs were above marginal cost, and domestic retail prices of petroleum
products were above their CIF levels plus marketing margins, except kerosene
and liquified petroleum gas wnich were being slightly subsidized.
Significant distortions remain, however, in the domestic retail price
structure of petroleum products, notably the large differential between
gasoline and diesel prices. Relative price distortions would, over time,
encourage uneconomic decisions for energy investments and inter-fuel
substitution.  Accordingly, under SAL I the Government undertook to review
the relative prices of petroleum products and plan adjustments that would
reflect the structure of international prices in the domestic market and
gradually achieve a closer balance between the supply and demand of various
products. After the SAL I loan approval, however, the scope of the
petroleum pricing study has been expanded, since natural gas and lignite are
important indigenous energy resources, and both the Government and the Bank
felt it necessary to develop comprehensive policies and methodologies for
pricing all major energy resources and products.  As a result, the terms of
reference for the study had to be revised, which has led to a revision of
the original timetable. The petroleum and natural gas pricing studies began
in March 1983 and a draft report will be completed by August. The lignite
pricing study, undertaken separately, will then be integrated and the final
report prepared by October 1983. Following this, the Government will
formulate an action program by end-1983 to implement appropriate
recommendations of the energy pricing studies. Bank staff would be prepared
to provide inputs, as necessary, during the conduct and review of these
studies.
65.       However, in the meantime, it is clear that the present domestic
price ratio of about 60:100 between diesel and gasoline is out of line with
the structure of international prices, and with the existing supply-demand
balance for petroleum products in Thailand. Continuaed differential pricing
of the two products would further distort consumption and investment
patterns, and limit the potential of revenue mobilization from the presently
low level of diesel taxation. The Government has, therefore, publicly as
well as in the Let:ter of Development Policy, stated its intention to
gradually reduce the price differential between diesel and gasoline.



- 25 -
66.        Efficiency of Energy Use.  A large measure of energy conservation
in recent years has resulted from the increases in the level of energy
prices. In addition, the Government has implemented a number of direct
measures to curtail energy consumption in transport, industry, and
households. Investments are being planned by both the public and private
sectors to increase the efficiency of energy production as well as to
economize on energy inputs to the rest of the economy.  Further work is
being done, often with external assistance, to identify and realize the
energy saving potential in various economic sectors and to rationalize the
system of incentives for energy conservation.  Once the policy and
institutional framework is in place, schemes for financing energy
conservation will be developed. Preliminary estimates suggest that the
medium-term potential for energy saving in the Thai economy could be about
10-12% of total energy consumption, which in annual terms at 1981
consumption levels amounts to about 1.5 million tons of oil equivalent
valued at $500 million. Technical assistance and financing schemes are
being developed to harness this potential.
67.        The SAL I study on incentives for energy conservation in industry
was to help formulate appropriate policies and measures in this area in
1982. It was subsequently decided however, with Bank concurrence, to
coordinate this study with the ADB's recently approved technical assistance
program with the National Energy Administration (NEA) to carry out energy
audits as well as to identify the potential and specific programs for energy
conservation in various industries. The consultants- work under the ADB-s
project began in March 1983 and will be completed in the subsequent six
months. In agreement with the ADB and the Bank, the Government has revised
the timetable so that the SAL study will begin in May 1983, toward the
mid-point of the ADB project when the initial data gathering by ADB
consultants will be in hand, and will be completed by September 1983. Upon
completion of the study the Government will formulate an action program, by
end-1983, to implement appropriate recommendations during 1984.
68.        Meanwhile under SAL II, the Government will take concrete steps to
further the efficiency of energy use in the industry and transport sectors.
For the industrial sector, the existing public program of limited technical
assistance for energy conservation will be strengthened by establishing an
energy conservation center of Thailand (ECCT) by mid-1983, with private
sector participation. Preparatory work has been completed, and the Govern-
ment has provided initial funding for the joint public-private enterprise
whereby both the NEA and the Association of Thai Industries will collaborate
in operating the ECCT to provide technical and technology assistance to
private industry for energy conservation. In the transport sector, which
consumes the largest share (over 40%) of petroleum in Thailand, the
Government has already completed two major studies on energy policies and
road user taxation in 1982. Based on these studies, the Government is



- 26 -
preparing an Action Program to implement appropriate recommendation-s for
energy conservation, initially in the roads subsector. Internal review of
this Action Program within the Government, also taking accournt of comments
from the Bank, will be completed by April 1983, and agreed recommLendations
implemented during the remainder of the year.
68.       Energy Strategy Formulation.  A large number of agencies are
engaged in aspects of energy sector management, utilizing segments of s
knowledge available in various studies completed or underway. The
Government attaches high priority to formulating an integrated strategyv or
energy developTment and to instituting a mechanism for sector policy
coordination on a continuous basis.  While a beginning was made during Flft'.
Plan preparation, much remains to be done. Under SAL I, the NEA was to
review and evaluate sector analyses and to incorporate supply and demard
uncertainties into the process of sector planning and public investment
programming. However, this task has been delayed because of the
disappointing results of some basic sector studies completed only recently.
According to the revised timetable, local consultants were engaged in
January 1983 to prepare the data base prior to the start of the energy
strategy study, and international consultants will come on board in April
for about six mLonths.  The Government will, after review of the consultant's
work, identify by end-1983 appropriate changes to be introduced in the
energy planning process. The Bank's concurrent aLssessment of energy sector
policies and investment programs is expected to assist the Government-s
efforts in this area.
F. Agriculture
70.       Overview.  Continued agricultural growth is critical for the
balance of payments and for rural employment and incomes. In recent years
agriculture has contributed about 25% of GDP, more than 50% of total
exports, and over 70% of employment. An additional estimated 10% of GDP
originates in activities directly related to agriculture, such as agro-
processing, which account for a very significant portion of rural non-farm
employment. The agricultural growth of 5% p.a. over the 1960s and 1970s was
achieved mostly through expansion of the cultivated area.  While there is
potential for further expansion of cropland throughout the 1980s, to maintain
agricultural growth, more intensive use of modern inputs and technology will
become necessary and will be critical in the longer term.  Recognizing this,
the Fifth Plan accords high priority to supporting the transformation from
extensive to intensive agricultural development, providing adequate incen-
tives for farmers and improving their land tenure. Intensification efforts
resulting from the Fifth Plan objectives are being supported through the
Bank's project work in research, extension, and land development, irrigation
and credit. While this will continue to be the case, progress in the areas
of land tenure/land use policy and marketing and pricing policy cannot be
conveniently supported through project lending alone; the scope of reforms
in these areas and their importance for growth makes them appropriate for
structural adjustment lending.



- 27 -
71.       The actions taken during the first SAL represented major redirec-
tions in land use and development policies as well as in agricultural
pricing and marketing policies. These have already resulted in the start-up
of an ambitious land reclassification program, in a comprehensive set of
guidelines for other land policy actions, in unprecedented reductions of
taxes and controls on agricultural exports, and in partial elimination of
the ban on private sector livestock slaughtering.
72.       UJnder SAL II, the land reclassification program is being implemented
at a good pace, (with modifications to address concerns raised during the
initial stages). New program development items will open the way for further
land policy actions and for the possible establishment of a Land Bank. In
agricultural marketing and pricing, while continuing the policies of
decontrol and reduced taxation of exports, the current system of rice market
intervention will be reviewed, and a program of studies will consider the
desirability of Government actions in developing the marketing infrastruc-
ture. In addition, SAL II will initilate the formulation of appropriate
policies for management and planning of water resource development.
73.       Land Use Policy.  Nearly 27 million ha, over half of Thailand's
total area, was legally classified as forests two decades ago. Incentives
for agricultural production and population pressures have led to rapid
forest denudation and expanding farm settlements, to the point where today
probably up to 8 million ha of the area classified as forests is under more
or less regular cultivation by over one million households; at least
two-thirds of this encroached "forest" land is suitable for permanent
agricultural use. The Government has recognized the economic importance
(for input use intensification, land development and optimization of
cropping patterns) of giving security of tenure to the families farming
illegally occupied forest areas suitable for agriculture and, under SAL I, a
program was developed to issue them "right to farm" (STK) certificates./|
During 1982, the Forestry Department was able to issue over 60,000 STKs
throughout the country; in 1983, STKs will be issued to at least 120,000
families -- an accelerated pace that will allow completion of the program
(involving over one million families) by 1991.
74.       W,Jhile another aim of the reclassification effort was to involve
government agencies other than the Forestry Department in implementing land
use policy in areas formerly classified as forests and in supporting
agricultural development where suitable, the budgetary situation did not
allow that to happen during 1982. However, provisions have now been made so
that in 1983 the Land Development Department will determine the agricultural
/1 About 10% of all farmers hold title deeds for the land they farm (or
rent out). Up to 40% more hold title (N.S.3) which could be used as
collateral but has limited legal standing. The rest have improperly
documented rights, or no legal rights at all, to the land they farm.



- 28 -
suitability for the encroached forest areas as the basis for the issuance of
STKs by the Forestry Department. Concerns had been expressed in the context
of SAL I about the constraints (in certain parts of the country) imposed by
the 15 rai (2.4 ha) size limit set by the law governing the program for STKs
issued to each household.  A practical solution has been found to this
limitation by dieciding to issue indefinite occupancy permits (registered in
exactly the same manner as STKs, so as to facilitate assimilation, once the
legal framework allows it) for up to an additional 35 rai (5.6 ha) per
household.
75.       While the specific program under SAL I was being initiated, the
Cabinet approved in June 1982 a comprelensive set of guidelines for land
use policy.  The main objective of the guidelines is to provide households
farming "forest" areas suitable for agriculture with security of tenure
while concentrating the forest preservation and reafforestation efforts of
the Government in critical watershed areas. These guidelines are therefore
a very significant formal step in the movement away from rigid adherence to
previous classifications of land (which did not properly take into account
agricultural suitability and economic potential) and towards a more
realistic and development-oriented land policy. The guidelines provide a
broader framework into which the SAL I land reclassification program is
integrated and which is already leading to further actions. Specifically,
under SAL II inventories will be kept, as the land reclassification program
proceeds, on thie encroached land suitable for agriculture but not covered by
STK certificates or occupancy permits (because the family's holding exceeded
the 50 rai or 8 ha maximum) and on the encroached areas determined to be
unsuitable for agriculture. On the basis of this information the Government
will be able to move towards developing allocation criteria for holdings in
excess of 50 rai per family and determine the extent of encroached areas
unsuitable for agriculture; the next step will then be to determine the
urgency and appropriateness of programs for reafforestation and/or
resettlement out of encroached forest areas not suitable for agriculture.
Meanwhile, there will be no recognition of land rights for holdings over
50 rai in "forest" areas. To provide support, as necessary, to any future
land redistribution programs and, more immediately, to broaden access to
credit by STK holders, the Government will carry out during 1983 a study of
possible functions, resources and alternative institutional arrangements for
the establishment of a land bank; legislation incorporating the study's
conclusions would then be introduced in Parliament.
76.       Agricultural Marketing and Pricing Policy.  The dynamic private
sector will continue to provide the main stimuli for agricultural production
and marketing of surplus output. In order to avoid distorting the
incentives to the private sector, the Government has decided to minimize
market interventions, concentrate on measures to improve the efficiency of
the private sector and continue to give priority to the objective of
enabling farmers to realize adequate returns from their agricultural
activities. Major policy changes were made under SAL I, as export duties



- 29 -
for rice and rubber were reduced substantially and other restrictions on
exports of agricultural commodities significantly relaxed (e.g. maize
quotas) or eliminated (rice licenses). The Government also intends to avoid
further taxation of agricultural exports; in the case of rice exports the
current policy (to be in effect at least until June 1983) is to maintain the
duties presently being imposed (export tax and premium, amounting to about
10% of FOB prices) as lump-sum, per-ton requirements and not to reintroduce
the reserve requirement.
77.       Concerning domestic intervention on the rice and paddy markets the
current policy is for the Government to purchase rice and paddy when
farmgate prices fall below a minimum/target price (set at B 3,300 per
ton-for 5% paddy). This policy represents a continuation of the trend
towards improving the efficiency of the domestic rice policy and should not
lead to the waste of public resources for rice price support policies in
recent years (large losses resulted from the 1981, and to a smaller extent
1982, operations). To ensure that progress is made towards a more
systematic and coherent rice policy, allowing farmers to respond to the
undistorted signals of the export markets and minimizing untargetted public
expenditures, under SAL II an evaluation of the current rice policies will
be undertaken in mid-1983 to identify areas where further improvement is
required and to propose alternative measures where the ones now in use do
not appropriately serve the dual objectives of price stabilization and
adequate incentives to farmers.
78.       The Government has also set up a Committee for the Restructuring
of the Marketing System at the initiative of the Ministry of Commerce. Its
purpose is to oversee a review of the marketing infrastructure, to identify
likely bottlenecks and key areas for improvement, so as to facilitiate the
response of farmers to market conditions and to maximize the proportion of
the final prices accruing to the producers. This exercise involves the
development of an agricultural trade information system to establish linkages
between the data bases of various Government agencies and expedite the centra-
lization of information on agricultural production and prices. In order to
streamline existing mechanisms (e.g. marketing) or develop actions, a number
of studies will be undertaken under SAL II. Individual studies will look at
the desirability and the feasibility of actions in five areas: (a) agricul-
tural pricing system and structure; (b) agricultural markets: central,
regional and local; (c) market credit systems; (d) storage capabilities at
central and farm levels; and (e) contractual arrangements for agricultural
marketing. In the area of fertilizer supply, a SAL I study to identify
measures to improve the efficiency of private marketing and to explore the
need and nature of Government participation in fertilizer distribution/l is
now underway (after overcoming budgetary constraints which delayed its start).
/1 Concessional exports from Japan and barter agreements with other coun-
tries have, in recent years, made the Government a major distributor of
fertilizers.



- 30 -
79.       Water Resource Development and Management.  Water resource develop-
ment in the last two decades has been selective but relatively unsystematic.
As the demand for water has grown and the resource base is becoming more
limited in many of the river basins, the interdependence between components oi
the system (irrigation, power, domestic and industrial water supply, salinity
control) has increased so that proposals for the development of new projects
need to be scrutinized for their impact on the economic utilization of the
country's water resources. Conflicts and trade-offs between alternative water
allocation criteria and water uses in already developed water resources are
becoming more acute, while their resolution is th,e responsibility of ad hoc
committees not equipped for the task.
80.       Under SAL II, the Government intends to review the management and
development of water resources in the context of the Fifth Plan's objectives
of agricultural growth and satisfaction of basic needs. The development of a
program to address this issue is aimed at achieving immediate improvements in
the efficiency of already developed water resources and at improving invest-
ment planning. In order to develop an effective strategy in this area, a
program of studies has been developed to: (a) analyze the present water
resource management system and consider improvements in its organization
(possibly creating a National Water Board) and its ability to resolve con-
flicts; (b) evaluate the potential for further development of water resources;
(c) review the legal framework (including cost recovery aspects); and (d)
develop an information system to better serve the needs of improved water
resource development and planning.
PART III - THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan History
81.       Over the last several years, there has been an intensive policy
dialogue between the Royal Thai Government and the Bank. Initially, this
was based largely on the findings of the last Basic Economic Report and sub-
sequent economic and sector work. Since May 1981, when comprehensive dis-
cussions started on structural adjustment lending by the Bank, a large part
of the dialogue has taken place in the context of SAL preparation and imple-
mentation.
82.       During the preparations for SAL I, it became apparent that the
most appropriate vehicle for SAL-lending in Thailand would probably be a
series of closely spaced, modest-sized SALs. Accordingly, and also in view
of the fact that its constitutional term would end in April 1983, the
Government approached the Bank soon after SAL I was approved by the Bank
(March 2, 1982) to start the preparatory work for SAL II. A first formal
review of SAL I implementation took place in June 1982, and at that time
discussions on SAL II were initiated. Further missions followed in August/
September and November 1982. During the latter mission most of the program
for SAL II was appraised. Subsequently, some additional documentation was
submitted by the Government and reviewed by the Bank. Technical discussions
and negotiations took place in Washington from February 22 to March 3, 1983.
The Thai delegation was led by Dr. Suthee Singhasaneh, Deputy Minister of
Finance.



- 31 -
B. IMF Activities in Thailand and Government/IMF/Bank Cooperation
83.       After Thailand experienced rapidly increasing balance of payment_
deficits in 1979-80, it initiated discussions with the Fund on an appropriate
policy response.  A number of policy measures in the areas of finncial,
fiscal and pricing policy became the basis for a two-year satandby c--L:r-,
ment which started in June 1981.  However, the central government -e  le
shortfall in FY82 led to an increase in the budgetary deficit, which, in
turn, caused a nonobservance of the subceiling on net credit to the Govern-
ment. In the circumstances, it was decided not to continue this arrangemaent
and a new 14-month standby in an amount of SDR 272 million (100% of quota)
was approved by the Fund in November 1982. (Annex V gives a summary of
Thailand-s use of Fund resources.) These standby arrangements have been
granted in support of the Government's policies aimed at strengthening
the balance of payments consistent with the Government-s other economic
and social objectives. The programs have included performance criteria
relating to credit expansion, including credit to the Government, external
borrowing, and customary practices in the exchange and payments system. In
its work the Fund staff also has devoted particular attention to interest
and exchange rate policies. The other area in which the Fund has assisted
Thailand is tax administration and statistics. A major program of technical
assistance has been ongoing in the Revenue Department of the Ministry of
Finance, and smaller programs in the Customs and Excise departments. Staff
of the Fund-s Bureau of Statistics also assisted the Bank of Thailand in
improving financial statistics and computer services.
84.       In the context of SAL, the Bank has not covered any of the areas
in which the Fund has been active, except for fiscal strategy and policy.
In this field, the division of work has followed the comparative advantages
of the two institutions, with the Fund handling short-term macro management
and budgetary issues, as well as strengthening of the administrative arrange-
ments for resource mobilization, and the Bank concentrating on medium-term and
structural issues, including efficient utilization of public revenues and
incorporation of an appropriate fiscal strategy in the planning framework of
the country.
85.       Specifically with regard to activities in 1982, the recent Fund
standby has as one of its major objectives to reduce the central government-s
budgetary deficit from over 5% of GDP in FY82 to 3.5% of GDP in FY83. This
is predicated on keeping central government expenditures roughly constant in
real terms (except for debt service) and implementing a tax program of about
1% of GDP. This division of the adjustment between the revenue and
expenditure side is in line with the longer-term budgetary strategy which
the Government has been developing under SAL. That longer-term plan has, on
the revenue side, also taken full account of the improvements in tax
administration being developed under the Fund-s technical assistance
program. Similarly, the Fund has depended on the Bank to review Tnailand-s
public investment program, and to assist the Government in developing
programs for the improvement of the financial status of state enterprisesc
The various Bank activities under SAL in these and other areas of fiscal



- 32 -
policy have been discussed in detail in Part II above. To ensure full
coordination of Fund and Bank positions and assistance to Thailand, there
continues to be extensive consultation and exchange of information at the
staff level between the two institutions.
C. Expected Effects of the Structural Adjustment Program
86.       The various sets of measures to be taken, or in a number of
instances already taken, under Thailand-s structural adjustment program
are designed to improve the country-s medium-term balance of payments
position with minimum adverse effect on its development. As is clear from
the description in Part II of this report, many approaches are being followed;
only a few will be highlighted here. In energy, the large domestic price
increases for petroleum products and electricity over the past years have
resulted in a significant income transfer to the public sector, and are
causing a reduction in the demand for energy, which translates itself nearly
completely in reduced import demand. They have also allowed a substantial
reduction in new investments for the very capital-- and import-intensive power
sector. In agriculture, reduced export taxation and market regulation, as
well as the reclassification of forest reserves suited for cultivation will,
ceteris paribus,, improve incentives to farmers, stimulate production and
thereby increase the availability of exportable agricultural products. In
industry, removal of taxation on exports, a move in the incentive structure
towards strengthening Thailand's comparative advantage and a consequent more
selective investment climate may be expected to have appreciable effects over
the medium term on the efficiency of production and investment. In the fiscal
area, implementation of successive tax packages and a more careful screening
of public expenditures are undoubtedly already having their effect and will
continue to be implemented. This will not only have an impact on the fiscal
deficit, but will improve the balance of payments as well. Finally, there is
every reason to expect that the measures to improve the government's
institutional set-up as well as the quality and coordination of policy-making
will improve the efficiency of resource use and thereby influence the overall
resource-expenditure balance favorably.
87.       In the course of preparation for SAL I, Bank staff investigated
whether the contemplated structural adjustment program could be expected
to have a sufficient impact on the economy. In the first instance, the
orders of magnitude of the proposed measures in the various policy areas
were broadly assessed, through partial analysis, to judge whether they were
substantive enough to expect a quantitatively significant effect. It was
then estimated that the medium-term effect of the already implemented energy
price increases on the current account deficits would probably be of the
order of 1-1.5% of GDP. First order effects in agriculture and industry
were each judged to be of about that same order of magnitude, and, given
also the savings and efficiency measures in the public sector, the broad and
intuitive view of the potential effects of the adjustment program suggested
that indeed substantial effects might be expected. Simulations with a model,
developed in cooperation with Thai counterpart institutions, comparing "with"



- 33 -
and "without" structural adjustment scenarios, led to comparable conclusions.
Specifically, the main conclusions were that the effect of the structural
adjustment measures would be to sustain growth at a rate of over 7%, while
bringing down the current account deficit to about 4.2% of GDP by 1986, and
allowing the debt service ratio to remain within the acceptable range.
88.       As discussed in Part I D of this Report, substantial changes have
occurred in the actual and prospective conditions of the world economy, and
in the Thai economy, since these calculations were made. Thus, it is
necessary to establish how these new circumstances may be expected to
influence the development path of the Thai economy. This analysis has been
undertaken in the context of the Economic Report on Thailand, which
presently is in an advanced stage of preparation. It considers a number of
alternative scenarios for the world economy, based on the 1982 World
Development Report and the most recent commodity outlook for the 1980s,
which strongly reflect the worsening of development prospects for the
international economy in the 1980s as compared to earlier projections.
Broadly speaking, the earlier "central" scenario is now considered to be
'"optimistic" and has been complemented by a much less favorable "pessimistic"
scenario, which underlines the downward risks. The present central
scenario, on which the projections in this Report are based, assumes a
resumption of economic growth in the industrial countries in 1983 and slow
but steady growth thereafter (but no substantial cyclical rebound after the
present recession), moderate growth of world trade, and 8% growth of
manufactured exports from developing countries. Also, the Bank's latest
commodity price projections are significantly lower than previous ones.
Real interest rates continue to be high, and, as the rate of international
inflation has come down, the real burden of existing international debt is
no longer declining as rapidly as in the past.
89.       Thailand, with its open economy and increased reliance on inter-
natonal trade, has already been affected severely by the international
recession, and inevitably its medium-term prospects would be similarly
affected by a downward shift in the rate of expansion in the world economy.
Export growth would decelerate significantly, in real and even more in
nominal terms. This would not only affect the country-s national income
directly, but also indirectly, though a reduced debt servicing capacity and
consequently lowered borrowing ceiling. Continuing high real interest rates
will add to the country's debt burden, and so will shorter maturities, which
will probably obtain in private capital markets. It should also be noted
that the country's foreign exchange reserves have been reduced, in relation
to its imports, since the mid-1970s, and that part of its borrowing capacity
will have to be used to increase the absolute level of these reserves in
future (See Annex I, page 5). As a result of these various factors,
Thailand will have to reduce its current account balance of payments deficit
to levels below those until recently perceived to be sustainable, if debt
service is not to grow beyond acceptable levels.



- 34 -
90.        Given the changed assumptions for the international economy
(central scenario /1) and the other changes in assumptions, especially with
regard to fiscal policies,/2 new projections have been made for the Thai
economy. In view of the present disturbance of the world economy, and
uncertainties with regard to the short-term future, the projections have
been extended to 1990. Table 1 summarizes the results, with and without
Table 1: IBRD PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
WITH AND WITHOUT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
(Central scenario for world economy)
1982-1990
1970-79   1979-82           Without           With
Structural   Structural
Adjustment   Adjustment
Growth Rates of Constant
Price Aggregates
GDP at market prices             7.0       5.7                 4.8            5.4
Agricultural production          4.8       2.9                 3.1            4.0
Exports GNFS                     7.5      12.9/b               4.5/b          6.8/b
Manufactured exports            25.8      15.4                 8.0           10.0
Imports GNFS                     6.3      -2.4/b               5.3/b          6.0/b
Imports of petroleum and
products                       8.7       n.a.                2.0            0.0
1979       1982                        1990
Ratios
Investment (% GDP)              28.8      23.2                28.6           26.9
Government revenue
(% GDP)                      14.1       13.3               14.5           16.2
Current account deficit,
(% GDP)                        7.7       3.2/b               6.0            1.8
Petroleum imports
(% imports GNFS)              19.7       n.a.              26.9            21.4
Debt service ratio
(% exports)                   14.9      18.5               42.7           19.9
Debt service ratio,
1986  (% exports)                                         (24.5)         (17.9)
/a Not taking account of possible further structural adjustment measures
after 1986.
/b Figures influenced by unusually high exports and low imports in 1982.
/1 Outcomes under alternative scenarios are discussed in the forthcoming
economic report. Under the optimistic scenario Thailand's economic
growth ratio would return to about 7% p.a.
/2 These include the new assumptions for the public revenue target, and for
public expenditures (see section II B of this report).



- 35 -
structural adjustment, and compares them to the outcomes for the years
1970-79, and the adjustment, and compares them to the outcomes for the years
1970-79, and the recession years 1979-82. Even with structural adjustment,
manufacturing export growth, which has been exceptionally high (from a low
base) would fall, but at 10% p.a. it would still be significantly in excess of
world demand. After correction for the unusual 1982 base year, total exports
would grow at over 7% p.a., and imports at slightly over 5% p.a. (the latter
being held back by stagnant petroleum imports). The balance of payments
current account deficit would gradually fall to below 2% of GDP, and the debt
service ratio would stabilize at around 20%. Lower export demand, terms of
trade, government expenditures and private investments would, however, lead to
a significantly lower GDP growth (at about 5.5%O p.a.) than was foreseen
earlier. Real national income growth would, however, be about as high as GDP
growth, and thereby show a significant rebound from the years 1979-82.
Moreover, at these growth rates Thailand would continue to outperform most
other developing countries in the difficult 1980s.
91.       Strictly speaking, it is no longer possible to define strictly a
"without" structural adjustment case, since the actual data for 1982 already
reflect the effects of some of the measures, and these data are also strongly
influenced by othe events, such as the international recession. For the
purposes of an illustrative calculation, the "without" structural adjustment
case omits estimated structural adjustment effects on industrial exports,
agricultural production and overall investments; energy conservation efforts
beyond the large energy price increases of 1979-81, and the contemplated
fiscal measure The results show a renewed substantial deterioration of the
balance of payments, and an unsustainable climb in the debt service ratio.
Without structural adjustment, this would have to be compensated by strict
demand management, leading to further losses in growth momentum and incomes.
Thus, these calculations indicate that continued structural adjustment of the
Thai economy is necessary if the economy is to be able to develop further at a
reasonable pace, without the benefit of a favorable external environment as
existed in the earlier postwar decades.
D. General Evaluation of SAL I Implementation, and the Place of
SAL II in the Medium-Term Structural Adjustment Process
92.       The proposed loan is in continued support of the five-year
structural adjustment program being implemented by the Government. That
program's rationale, specific contents, state of implementation and estimated
effects were discussed in Part II and IlIc of this report. Overall, the
experience with SAL I has been positive. The structural adjustment process
has, in a number of instances, opened the opportunity for general policy



- 36 -
considerations to be brought to bear on specific areas which were previously
handled virtually independently by various government agencies. It has led to
substantial advances in the institutionalization and coordination of policy
formulation and economic decision making at the top levels of government. It
also should be noted that the way in which the structural adjustment program
was set up in Thailand--aiming at gradual progress over a broad front of
economic policy rather than at precise implementation of a few
measures--appears to be working well.
93.       With regard to the implementation of the specific steps programmed
under SAL I, the policy actions taken by the Government have in little more
than one year of the five-year Plan period already virtually eliminated
export taxation, contributed significantly towards a rationalization of the
domestic incentive structure in agriculture, industry and energy, changed
land use policy fundamentally, improved revenue mobilization, and initiated
basic fiscal and institutional reform. On the other hand, there has been
slippage in the study and program development components of the program,
due to a mixture of start-up difficulties, underestimatiion of the complex-
ities of some tasks, and increases in their scope. Thus, some of these
components of the SAL I program will carry over into SAL II.
94.       More generally, given that the program initiated under SAL I was,
from the outset, very comprehensive, covering a broad front and developing
many multi-year programs, there is an important element of continuity between
SALs I and II. Thus, the SAL II program carries forward the various
activities in the same five areas as SAL I, and adds a few new areas. The
specific measures which have been or will be taken under this SAL are set
out in a Letter of Development Policy which has been received from the
Government (see Annex IV). Together with progress under SAL I, they are
summarized in Table 2. The Table lists accomplishments under SAL I, SAL I
program elements carried over into SAL II, new activities already implemented
under SAL II, and steps still to be taken under SAL II. These activities
are, in turn, divided into four categories, viz. studies, policy formation,
program development and actions. Studies are designed to provide the
necessary analytical base where this does not yet exist; policy formulation
involves consideration of various policy options by the Government and choice
of the preferred one; program development consists of the formulation of
sectoral and subsectoral strategies and action programs designed to achieve
specified objectives; and actions are policy interventions to implement parts
of the agreed structural adjustment program.
95.       In broad terms, the SAL II program described in detail in Part III
of this report and summarized in Table 2 aims at continued implementation of
reforms started under SAL I, initiation of policy actions in a number of
additional areas,, and finalization of a first round of studies and program
development activities which will form the basis for policy actions in the
third and fourth years of the Fifth Plan. As such, this program constitutes
an appropriate second "time slice" in the structural adjustment program being
implemented by the Government.



3 37 -                                                                                                                 Table 2
THAilAND:  St-tetal Ad -tneetlrograt
Additional neanoree/aeticca taken
Secttr/policy area               SAL I activitles aed situatton by C9/S2                       or initiated up to 03/83                    F-rthe- pyrgra.                         Comments
I. Fistol Policy
1.  Fisel Peegra- fte   - SAL I called fte  de-elopoect of eenue  and           -         RP/a   RTG   e1c-ilned fiacal   - PD./b  RTC tc prepare  ntogeated p-ograt - Orea.ll trek iF  perying
Ceen.lideted nebllr   enpenditne  taegens, and pelicien  tc attain             policy fte  Pl-n Period specifying        to- Pint petted t- entire pcblic                mere co-plo  aod tice-
Se-ter                  then, fee the entice pcblic notice, acer the           -entr=l gete e...t revenue icrease,  tector, inclcding pubiln  cctcrptises                oconsuing th-n ennisaged,
Fifth  lan period, by 9582.  Snhiont-tl   neck        by -s-ce  and .esnere, eritic-lly         end toj-r entro hbnd-etar  f-cdc (9/83).    ht gond ptcgeccn heicn
undertaken in cit  -eee.. an .peelfied bni.a,          tenieting correct enpenditore           - PD.  Ministry cf Finance to pr-pcre             mde, with Bank annie-
and cith close bank isnolnenent In cnntent of          and incnt..ent peegre-n and  -nfin-   detetild plee to breeden cod intensify              t.nce   U-peniog RTC-
f CGEM preparetien.                                    in8 thce aithic the linits impoend   the rolc of Fineal Policy Of fice Ba inck dine-n-ion  of CEM
by aie-oble domestic end fnreign          centrtl nIrc.  planning  -it (i/OS).            Ci    . concentrate n
detfiito (I/83).                                                                          fiteal .traLwgY
2.  Tan enliey                                                                   - PF. Ac pact of -ovealt fi-caI           - PS.  Furth-e fia-o t-ion of tax otanegy
a.  Toe strategy    - Scbhtooticl  tork pe-f-ed  -n -edi1u-te- -ee-             planning eneccie, Oilb ha  pre-          ftr re-cInder ef  -lan perind CS/pt).
(atcet-re,         one projeetioss and polities, bet e-nplieaned           p-ed a dettiled  -eviec af -rdiam-
len-1)             by largee eecnt reenugsberhtf11.                        teen rennr eatr a       nd ne-rn-
eary  beaoeron, hy najoe tan (I/S3).
b.  T-  .easres  -SAL I tan  pa-kage enacted, iceludlg n                     - Action.  FYPS tac p-cLtge enacted,  - Aetion.  Knoet-cot ci nelectrd  ten                 PY82 and FY83 tan park-
tcass on eapital gains and interent inc ees            i-ciutitg impoet duty cheogen,            mesntres (9/83).                                ages aopp-r-ed hy IM
and odjn, ict-  to cerporate tanen, b-nt-e             liq... tones and certoac ecoe ceti- - Action.  Sne-tne-t of new  -cocslidated             stndbyh.
tanea a-d cnxtema dIees (-etimetd yield                iena- (yield r IS billies ce 1 et    encine tan lea, and of selected
B A hilen, D.5Y of AGP).                              GnD c fo  FY83) (10/82).                  -eni.i-ns in revenae code and ennto-
ln.. (il/Si).
- Aenion. sinplifinotice of bhunoess
tanns end e-iese dutis (12/83).
- iccdy.  .e.bt..itny  e letrodnctino  of
VAT en stleeted itewx (seact 10/83).
c.  Too adainin-    - Taijn  p-ogeam of iepnroed adasiantratien              - Action.  Ta sepprt revenee              - Action.  R-enue Departtent:  Conputert- - iMe in providing tech-
ret                sad onfonna.e.e  in R-nvenu  Dtpart3ent being           enf-cemeset eff-t, co-mittee cc           catio  ct  p-tSn-, eal                 of       niral  -einten-c  to  ill
implemented acd cell ahead of SAL I  rhbedtIe.         Too Rutings entablsirhd, ole- to          -eperleece nith area offices, and foe-          three Depart=enes.  A
ft-enlate eon aerecrs policy              ther d- reecroitecein  (12/83).  C-nte.n    recent Fcnd  ician  ban
(10/8). 2Dp--t-ent:  ceergenizntion  cnd decn-                                          -reiend progresn  in
tralieation, an3d  otionaltieolA      - of      .p. erened tioc ofrc
dcnnentn (ti/Si).  Encise Depacteen t:          wended reftoems.
ceorgacteotten follownlg enoctsett ef
rew cxci e tan lent (22/Si).
- Artitn.  Creation of Tealing Inetitote
fo- ta officials (12/83).
d. ain-al tanatie.   - 'Cepeetq en Regienal  Cities Dennlop-ent and                                                    - Pr.  T. develop detiletd prograw ti
M-nicipal Financing hben recsswended improve-                                                    apdate land and iloin-ng v.1-ticoc  ad
nests.                                                                                            ten eaten, review  evesptintn  fCro0 cent
taene forc cower-ceupi.ed hcuning, review
levels of local fiene, fees end chargen
ood d-rlnp bcitt   -- nedin-tin  en loca
tex itn,n hetc Miic tien of   na
and lntetio- C2t/i3).
3.  Expenditnee Policy  - iebctastial neck peeforend on sedin- -re  en-    - PP.  An port of nverall fiscal                - PF (pbhas  2).  F.-ther rlaborati-o end   - Inplementotit o  of nyn-
pendltl.e proieCtiOnE and politie  fer --ecueet   planeignseerctait, for FYpi4-86,               .ee.ncillationo ref rcurt_ep-nditune             tesir inntttlcnit-1
acell as inveset t enpenditures.                    RTC hoe prepared on initial reeie         policien (A/Si).                                thangeo (IT.1 belon) to
of recent and pronpeetive  -ecurrent - PD.  Furth-e  n1ib-ration cf e-p-odit-re           pro-idn  oee hasei
expenditucg teeede by -aj  ecompo-    trotegy for  .ecaindee of Plan period,              fraeework for rffici-eey
cent, and of ebe onerall size and         i-cluding iaint duetion ef thce-y.ear           impe.reovet in public
prioeitAes  within she inveatment         -11iig it-eEt-ent and foreign borr-o-           renorre oniltentlon.
petrn.  (l/i3).                           irg peogren (9/83).
A.  Sate E.teep,isa    - An ag-eed unde- SAL I, the Minittiee   coaerseing - Action.  Efficiency impronemrnts    - PF.  rO denelopto rctc progra  to    - .T. .i..                      make concerted
Finaneing cad           the SEn havr, titethee vith the Minintry of             being iepeisected  nd nec  na-agera    inple-ent roliey thbt c_=ercitlly                  effact te -ed-c  poblic
M- -agement             pinanee, deenloped a -hednle of rant incre-  ss    abeig hro-ght in.  Spetial c-nmit-    nrieoted SEn vill be financilly                         -esistaere to tariff it-
'p tni te end of CO83.  Te depelitltise tariff          tee iono-tigating need to incena.e    indapeodect oe liquidated (12/83).                  treacen through  ..mbiting
increarse, they mete ti i=ple ent this sebedole    ianegkk bh  fares.                            n F.  Deter-ntntien of public atilittie         tbhe   with efficieny i-
without Cabinet inreinenet.  Iwpleen.tation                                                      which RT2 in willing ti  ansint finer-           pro.ements, end thre-gh
ha hoevene  been delayed.                                                                          eitlly it  the lntgct con, and eca.o  cf    public edn ction
Inch asilstonce (12/8) (oll other pnb           -paigt.
- iTG hba derided then aIll eo=nrctally ertented                                                    fic utlitien to earn oppeopriate             - SE investn-nt end fo-eign
lSE  vill boho  te stand on thetM nan feet or hr                                                  retrios by the end of Fifth Plao).             borroving ptogramn belng
liqnidated.                                                                                    - PD.  D-aeInp-ent ot coac-ent  progran fat   integrated in nverall
e] icteation nof -nareanted lonnen fnc          public acetoc prog-aaing
-ejn- puhtir iotitiret   over tht cedium        unde  itea I.1, I.3,
ten  (7/li).                                    T.6 And  I1.1.
Arednen  Inat-e throog  Inyrne
effiieonoy and conagameot, an ai venl
.tae mareaten (duriog S3).
- Study. Analysts of tostitetinoa1 .ewha-
Sims to imperoe ST effileinne
(cenplnte 12/83).
a   Nea pelicy area ende- SAL It.
/a  PF - Polier F-d.ei      -cin.






Table 2
Page 2
Additional masaures/actionq taken
Sector/policy area                  SAL I activities and situation by 09/32                          or initiated tip to n3/83                      Further program                            Con,ents
I. Fiscal Policy (Cont-d)
5.  Extra-Budgetary        - Under SAL I, a working committee has made a pre-                                                      - Study.  Individual funds to be reviewed
Funds                    liminary overview of these funds, and on the                                                            consecuLively (2-6/83).
basis of reveooe/turnover, level of sbsfidies,                                                       - Action.  As specific sub-stodics are
etc., selected 10-12 funds for substantive                                                              completed, appropriate recomm-edatinos
study.                                                                                                  will be implemented.
6. *External Debt          - In June 1982 the External Debt Policy Committee  - Action.  Establishment of joint                    - PD.  To improve interagency proced-res
Management               instituted a coordinating mechanism for exrernal   processing committee on external                     for optimal external resource mobi-
resource mobilization.                                     resources to formulate external              lization and use, taking account of dif-
borrowing policies and criteria,            ferences in concessionality  (5/83).
to formulate 5th Plan borrowing           - Action.  Tn implement scheduled improve-
plan, and to consider and imple-            ments in external debt data base and
ment annual borrowing plans (10/82).  analysis (12/83).
- PF. Fifth Plan borrowing program
integrated into overall fiscal
program (1/83).
- PD. To develop a program to
improve external debt data base
and analysis (3/83).
II. Institutinnal
Development
1.  Systemic Changes
a.  Planning           - Consultento have assisted NESDB in designing an  - Action.  Design stage of project    - Action.   Implementation of project                             - In the short run re-
improved project preparation and appraisal sys-    appraisal and investment planning                    appraisal and investment planning sy.s-            sponsibilities of other
tem, ani a rolling investment planning system.             systems completed (1/83).                    tens (12/83).                                      government agencies will
- Consoltants have also designed an improved moni-                                                      - PD.  Work program  for improvement of              be adjusted to fit in
toring and evaluation system for plan implemen-                                                         monitoring and evaluation systems (4/83).  with new systems in
tation.                                                                                              - Action.  Selective application of moni-             NESDB and BOB.  In the
- NESDB reorganization study completed.  Study                                                            toring and evaluation systems (12/83).             longer run more basic
of staffing needs initiated.                                                                         - PD.  Development of program for NESDB               organizational changes
reorganization  (4/83).                            in these units are ne-
- Study/PD.  Completion of study on NESDB            cessary, which may have
staffing needs (7/83).  Program for                to be legislated.
implementation (10/83).
- Study of staffing needs of ministerial
planning units, on a selective basis
(6-12/83).
b.  Budgeting          - Changeover to program budgeting system on                 - PD.  Assessment of staff training    - Action.  Full introduction of Program
schedule.  Documents prepared on trial basis               needs for full introduction program    B.udgeting system for FY84 budget.
for FY83 for two ministries.  Related reduc-               budgeting system (3/83).                     Related further reductions of central-
tions in various budgeting controls ongoing.                                                            i-ed budgetary controls.
- Computerized management information center                                                            - Action.  Initiation of staff training
in place.                                                                                               program (7/83).
- Action. Monitoring and evaluation sys-
tems for budget implementation to be
improved (12/83).
c.  Accounting         - Analysis of present system and its weaknesses    - Action.  Review and implementation  - Study.  Consultants to complete and RTG  - Implementation of new
on schedule.  Special report on improvements               of recommendations of report on              to review successive sections of master    accounting system will
to provincial financial reporting system  pre-             provincial finances (3-9/83).                report on government accounting system             need substantial prep
pared.                                                                                                  (4-12/83).                                         aration time.
d.  Performance        - Work on new audit systems, compatible with                - Action.  Design phase compleLed,    - Action.  Implementation new performance
Auditing             revised budgeting and accounting systems,                  and operational manual finalized             audit system (4-7/83).
is on schedule.  Performance audit standards                (12/82).                                    Study.  Feasibility of introduction of
have been determined.                                    - Action.  Staff training initiated            comprehensive audit system  through
(1/83).                                     improved links between Auditor General
Office and internal audit agencies in
ministries and state enterprises (TOR
7/83).






- 39                                                                                                                              Table 2
Page 3
Additional measures/actions taken
Sector/policy area                  SAL I activities and situation by 09/82                          or initiated up to 03/83                       Further program                            Coamments
It. Institutional
Development (Cont'd)
2.  Strengthening
Institutional
Infrastructure
a.  Civil Service   - Initiation of studies on Civil Service organi-   - PF.  Inter-agency Steering Croup    - Study.  Expaoded Civil Service study to
Reform               zation, management, compensation in 1982                   Tset up 9/82) has decided to in-             be performed by intr-Lational consul-
agreed under SAL I.                                        grate the three studies and to               tants (7/83-1/84).
extend TORs to identify weaknesses
in RTG reorganization procedures
and processes.
b.  Creation of        - The Institute, to be created under SAL I, has                                                         - PD.  To Identify new approach to conduct
Independent          not yet materialized, due to a Juridical                                                                policy analysis and formulation (6/83).
Development          Council ruling that public funding would                                                             - PD.  To establish a preinvestment fund
Institute           necessitate the Institute to be a public                                                                to finance policy and sectoral stndies
enterprise.                                                                                             (12/83).
c. *Structural         - Implementation mec:hanism for- SAL at policy                                                          - PD/Action.  To develop a program  to
Adjustment           level Is in place, but staff support is tn-                                                             institute impruved mechanisms for SAL
Implementation       sufficient, as is coordination of implementation                                                        implementaLion and flow  of information
of various interlocking institutional SAL                                                               to policy level (4/83), and to imple-
components.                                                                                             menit it (9/83).
III. Industry
1.  Reform of              - As agreed under SAL I, across the board action   - Actions.  Reversal of scheduled                    - Action.  Implementation of first phase   - RTG has reconfirmed  that
Protective               was taken to bring tariffs within a 5-60% bautd,    increases In domestic content in                    restructuring electrical goods sub-                 temporary increase in
Structure                with few eaceptions.  Also, under the sub-                  automobile assembly.  Cabinet               sector (ongoing, till 12/83).                      import duties which has
sectoral approach to industrial reform, the                instructed agencies to Implement    - Action.  Further progress towards                         been implemented will
electrical goods subsector study was finalized,    phased program for reform  developed    greater uniformity of effective pratec-                         not be allowed to inter-
and the automotive stuidy initiated.                       in electrical goods study (10/82).    tion through general and/or subsectoral                   fere with the essential
Action.  Thailand has joined the            tariff reforms,                                    thrust of the reforms.
GEATT (11/82).                            - Studies.  Chemical, textile subsector
studies (du,ring 83).
2.  Reform of Invest-   - In August 1982 Cabinet decided on a major                    - PD.  BOI has formulated action            - PS.  BOI reform  action plan  (phase II)
mint Incentives          revision of the incentive structure along                   plan for reform, (phase I) in the            to identify reforms in greater detail
the lines advocated in the Plan and by the                 direction of greater automaticity,    (5/83).
Bank.  Stuidy on effect of investment icen-                and away from present counterpro-   - Action.  ImplementaLion of substantial
tives delayed.  Top leadership of BOI changed              ductive biases (1/83).                       parts of the reform program (during 83).
in October, 1982.                                                                                    - Study.  To review fiscal and invest-
ment consequences of fiscal and
other incentives (initiation 6/83).
3.  Rxport Promotion       - With the implementation of the various tax                - Action.  Export Service Centers           - Action.  Establishment of Export Pro-    - RTG is aiming for Bank
refund schemes, emports now take place on a free    being upgraded.                                     cessing Zones (during 83).                         project assistance for
trade basis.                                                                                         - Studies.  Feasibility of export credit              export processing
- Export Development Fund has been established.                                                           and guarantee schemes (6-10/83).                   zones.
- Establishment of bonded warehouses is on sche-
dule.
4.  Evaluation of          - Ad hoc arrangements have been put in place ti                                                          - Studies.  Consulting firms to evaluate    - Existing information on
Large-scale              evaluate large projects, sometimes with Bank or                                                          remaining large projects and to recom-             large-scale projects
Projects                 IFC assistance.   do precipitate decisions have                                                          mend ways in which NESDB s capability              incorporated in overall
been taken on large projects.                                                                           to undertake preliminary evaluations of    review of investment
proposed large investments can bh                  priorities (Section I.3).
strengthenied (comupletion i2/83).






- 40 -                                                                                                                   Table ?
Page 4
Additional measures/actions taken
Sector/policy area                SAL I activities and situation by 09/82                        or initiated up to 03/83                     Further program                          Comments
IV. Energy
1.  Pricing, Taxation   - Earlier large domestic energy retail price                - PP.  RTG has decided and publicly   - Studies.  Petroleum product and gas
increases removed major distortions in overall           stated its intention to reduce the    pricing studies (3-7/83) and coesolida-
energy price level.  SAL I relative petroleum            gasoline-diesel price differential.   tion with EGAT lignite study (10/83).
price study postponed to incorporate gas and                                                     - PD.  Development of action program to
lignite pricing.                                                                                    implement appropriate recommendations
of energy pricing studies (12/83).
2.  Efficiency of         - Specific energy conservation measures were              - Action.  Public sector technical    - Action.  Public/Private Sector National
Energy Use              taken in a number of areas.  Transport energy             assistance for energy conservation        Fnergy Conservation Center to be insti-
policy study was completed.  Industrial energy           started on a limited scale; private   tuted (6/83).
audits were initiated.  SAL I study on incen-            sector participation being sought.  - Study.  Industry energy conservation
tives for energy conservation in industry was    - PD.  Action Program to attain                    study, in coordination wqith ADB
postponed to coordinate with ADB technical               energy conservation in transport,          (5-9/83).
assistance in this area.                                 initially in roads subsector            - PD.  Action program to implement appro-
(draft 1/S3, final 4/83).                 priate recommendations of industry
energy conservation study (12/83).
- Action. To implement progran for
energy conservation in road transport
(during 83).
3.  Strategy              - Activity delayed because of disappointing re-    - Study.  Local consultants engaged   - Study.  International consultants will   - Supporting Bank sector
Formulation             suits of some basic underlying studies, and               to assist in preparing data base          perform study (4-9/83).                          work to be initiated in
because of decision to hire international and            (1/83).                                 - PD.  Formulation of action program to             Summer 83.
local consultants to assist NEA in strategy                                                         improve sector planning and policy
formulation.                                                                                        coordination (12/83).
VI. Agriculture
1.  Land Use Policy       - In June 1982 Cabinet set guidelines on land use  - Action.  FY83 program finalized and - PD. As land suitability surveys pro-    - Up to 10 years will be
and land rights policy to brting land use and            being implemented for aboot 120,000   ceed, inventories of areas unsuitable                 needed to regularize land
classification better in line with land suita-           families (ongoing FY83).                   for agriculture and of excess land in            use in all encroached
bility.  Ministry of Agriculture prepared 5-year - Study.  To determine desirability                holdings over 50 rai will be kept.               forest areas and issue
land reclassification program.  Issuance of              and feasibility of separate Land                                                            Right to Farm certifi-
Right to Farm certificates well under way, for           Bank (3-12/83).                                                                             cates for 1 million farm
15 rai per family, but additional permits                                                                                                            households.
granted up to 35 rai.
2.  Marketing and         - Substantive measures taken under SAL I to               - Action.  More realistic/less costly - Studies.  Program of studies for im-               - Government continues to
Pricing Policy          reduce export taxation and regulation in rub-             rice price support program being          provement of marketing information and            be committed to liberal-
ber, rice, maize, sugar and cassava.  Cheap              implemented in 1982/83.                    infrastructure (ongoing 83).                     ized agricultural trade
rice distribution program first rationalized,    - Stuidy.  Fertilizer marketing study    Study to evaluate rice price support                       and tiproved incentives
then abolished as rice export reserve require-           started (1-11/83).                         policy to improve its effectiveness              and returns to farmers.
ment was eliminated.  Domestic rice market                                                          (5-8/83).
interventions continued, with small
modifications. Fertilizer marketing study
delayed.
3. *Water Resource        - As conflicts and tradeoffs between alternative   - PD.  Approach and program of                    - Studies.  To improve water resource
Development and         water uses are becoming more acute, Cabinet               stuidies (1/83).                           development and management, investi-
Management              has instructed NESDB to review water resource                                                        gate legal issues and strengthen infor-
development and management.                                                                         mation systems (3-12/83).



I



- 41 -
E. Benefits and Risks
96.       Benefits.  The main benefits of SAL loans consist of the effects
of the policy adjustments which they support. These effects are expected to
be in the form of an improved performance of the economy through a more
efficient utilization of resources and positive responses to a more rational
system of incentives over the medium term. At a given pace of economic
development this will improve the balance of payments, or, alternatively,
within a balance of payments constraint given by the country's prudent
borrowing limits, it will improve the capacity for growth and socio-economic
development. This will assist Thailand in keeping at least part of its
earlier development momentum, and providing its still burgeoning labor force
with opportunities for a reasonable livelihood. An improved development
and balance of payments performance in comparison with one that might occur
in the absence of policy improvements will also help maintain Thailand's
ability to raise funds from international capital markets on reasonable
terms. Finally, the loan itself will provide foreign exchange at favorable
maturities and thereby assist Thailand in dealing with its substantial
foreign financing needs in the difficult 1980s.
97.       Risks.  There are three major reasons why the above main benefits
of the loan, in terms of. improved performance of the economy, might not be
attained. The first might be an international environment which would be
much more unfavorable than the one presently assumed. This might cause the
Thai economy also to perform below the level indicated in this report.
However, this would not imply that the benefits of the structural adjustment
program would be smaller, in effect they would probably even be greater in
that they would prevent an even further worsening of the situation. A
second risk is that the effects of the structural adjustment efforts would
turn out to be smaller than estimated. While this would be unfortunate, it
would again not remove the rationale for the implementation of the program.
Also, experience up until now, both with regard to macro developments as
well as to some specific apparent effects of SAL measures, indicates that the
effects of the various policy measures may well surpass those assumed./l A
third risk relates to political developments in Thailand which might impede
the Government s determination or efforts to continue the development and
implementation of an effective structural adjustment program. The impending
change of government through elections in June 1983 underlines this risk.
Given historical experience, however, there is no reason to believe that
/1 As an example, the greatly reduced demand growth for power has made it
possible to limit the investment program in that sector substantially.
While the effect is partly due to the recession, the relative price for
power has in all likelihood played a significant role.



- 42 -
the incoming government would not continue to support programs agreed before
the elections and for which the Bank loan has already been drawn down.
Furthermore, the gradual approach and broad focus chosen in developing and
implementing the structural adjustment program should help to minimize and
distribute widely the costs to be borne by any particular group, thus
reducing any possible negative political fallout. Indeed, one of the major
reasons for associating the Bank with the structural adjustment program in
Thailand is to strengthen the support for gradual but steady change over a
broad front.
F. Loan Amount
98.       The proposed loan of $175.5 million (including capitalized front-
end fee) would meet about 10% of the total gross external capital
requirements of Thailand in 1983. The loan amount represents about 30% of
the Bank's annual lending program for Thailand and appears appropriate in
view of the high periodicity of SALs in the country on the one hand, and the
breadth and quality of the SAL program on the other hand.
G. Monitoring
99.       The progress of the SAL program will be monitored in two ways.
First, regular supervision will be carried out. In this context, the Govern-
ment has agreed that it will regularly exchange views with the Bank on pro-
gress achieved under SAL; as part of these exchanges the Government will
furnish the Bank with a report on the status of the implementation of its
structural adjustment program in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The first such exchange of views will take place by October 31,
1983 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Second, the preparation
of an early third SAL would require extensive discussions with the Govern-
ment toward the end of 1983, and would be based on the successful implemen-
tation of the program specified under this SAL. To ensure such implementa-
tion, the government proposes to strengthen the SAL implementation mechanism,
as indicated in para. 43 above. In addition to the Economic Subcommittee
which oversees the progress of the various components under SAL operations,
the proposed Joint Finance-NESDB secretariat would supervise the progress of
studies, program development and action plans of the key sectoral ministries!
agencies involved in the SAL process.
H. Categories of Goods to be Financed
100.      All goods imported into Thailand from eligible countries, except
goods in a few categories which are specifically excluded, would be eligible
for financing under the loan. The excluded categories involve goods which
are being otherwise financed by national or international financing institu-
tions or any other agency, goods intended for military or paramilitary use,



- 43 -
and goods for luxury consumption. A list of ineligible imports is given in
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement. Loan proceeds would represent less
than 5% of the anticipated imports in the eligible categories, making rapid
disbursement possible.
I. Counterpart Funds
101.      The funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided under
the loan would be credited to a special account to be established in the
Ministry of Finance. Counterpart funds will be used to finance the
Government's development expenditures, including various essential
components of its structural adjustment program.
J. Procurement and Disbursement
102.      Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than $7.5 million each will be awarded
on the basis of normal commercial practices of the purchaser. Public sector
imports under contracts below $7.5 million equivalent will be procured in
accordance with standard government practices, which are acceptable to the
Bank. All purchases, both public and private, under contracts amounting to
$7.5 million or more each will be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Certain commonly traded comm-
odities may be purchased through price quotations available from organized
international commodity markets. Whatever procurement methods are used, not
more than $50 million of the funds would be used to finance the import of
any trade classification subgroup.
103.      The Kingdom of Thailand will be the Borrower.  It has designated
the Bank of Thailand to be responsible for maintaining the loan account, the
collection and coordination of the relevant letters of credit and supporting
documentation and for the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications.
104.      Procurement and disbursements for the proposed loan have been
designed to ensure rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The proposed loan will
be disbursed at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported
items through reimbursement to the Borrower or direct payment to foreign
suppliers. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for $50,000
equivalent or less will not be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the loan. Reimbursement applications normally would be consolidated and
submitted from time to time in amounts of at least $1.0 million equivalent.
It is expected that disbursement will be completed within three months of
loan effectiveness, i.e., about September 30, 1983.



- 44 -
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND AND
RELATIONSHIP TO PROPOSED LOAN
105.      Thailand first borrowed from the Bank (;roup in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1982, had received 72 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$2,739.9 million in loans and $124.8 million in credits. As of that date,
$935.2 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Iank Group projects under implementation.
106.      The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 31% for energy; 27% for agriculture and rural
development; 17% for transportation; 5% for telecommunications; 5% for urban
development; 6% for education; 3% for industry; 1% for population/health/
nutrition; and 5% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementa-
tion of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five
years.  Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 24.9%
in 1981. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1981, for
example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and
Morocco, were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
107.      Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from EL program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 61% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects; specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 27%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector
has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more bal-
anced program covering irrigation (including land development and support
services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farm-
ers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricul-
tural extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in
the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent
years education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 12% of th,e program.
108.      The role of the proposed Structural Ad'justment Loan is to support
the Government's efforts to reducing over the medium-term its substantial
balance of payments deficits which have arisen in recent years as a result



- 45 -
of the rapid increase in energy prices, a slowdown in world demand for
exports, insufficient savings effort particularly in the public sector, and
Thailand's emerging limits on newly cultivated land. The loan is the second
in a series of such loans. It offers the Bank the opportunity to continue
to assist the Government in the design and implementation of structural
adjustment policies as part of its implementation of the Fifth Five-Year
Plan, which came into force on October 1, 1981. The programs which are
supported under the proposed SAL are designed explicitly to complement the
Bank's project lending by focusing on policies which cannot be adequately
addressed at the project level, but which in many cases provide important
support for effective project design and implementation.
109.      For instance, in the area of agriculture and rural development,
many interventions, such as land reform and land titling, can be supported
through Bank projects, but the broader issue of forest reserve reclassi-
fication cannot be adequately addressed through specific projects. Similarly
the issues arising in the context of reform of agricultural taxation,
regulations and market interventions, while essential to a successful agri-
cultural growth and export strategy, cannot be addressed at the project
level, since they cut across too many Thai agencies and transcend the scope
of any individual project. In the case of industrial development, because
of the dominance of the private sector, Bank involvement to date has been
relatively small; as a result, the scope of operations has not been adequate
to carry out an effective dialogue on major industrial policy issues. The
proposed SALs are therefore seen by the Government and the Bank as the most
effective way of continuing policy discussions in areas that are crucial for
the successful restructuring of the Thai economy. In the energy sector, the
Bank has been very active in recent years. Its lending has been mostly for
power generation, transmission and rural electrification, but more recently
also for a natural gas and lignite development. However, individual project
loans have been and will continue to be made to specific agencies and do not
provide the opportunity for full participation of the Bank and the
Government's core agencies (NESDB, Ministry of Finance, Budget Bureau) in
the process of overall energy policy formulation and implementation. The
SAL provides a vehicle for such participation and aims at pulling together
the various strands of sectoral analysis, policy and investment planning
into a comprehensive and consistent energy sector program.
110.      Fiscal policy reform and broad institutional development of the
type supported by the proposed SAL are, by their very nature, outside the
scope of project lending, and yet affect project operations very directly
through (a) the extent to which financial resources are available for
financing project-level investments and through the incentive or disincentive
effects of specific fiscal measures; and (b) the institutional capabilities
and constraints of specific agencies implementing projects which frequently
are inherent to the entire institutional framework in which the public



- 46 -
sector operates, rather than exclusively of concern for the agency itself.
Structural ad,justment lending for fiscal reform and institutional develop-
ment therefore, as for agriculture, industry and energy, provides a unique
opportunity to assist the Government in a way that is complementary to the
Bank's project lending.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANI) AUTHORITY
111.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
112.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The specific actions that the Government plans to take under
SAL II are listed in the attachment to its Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV).
113.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
114.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 10, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 47 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL IlNDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WZIGHTID AVEWGES
URA (THOUSAND  SQ.                                                                  -  DST RECENT ESTIVATE?-
T0TAL            514.0                               MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     182.6             1960  /b   1970 /b ZSTIMATE lb         ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMICA & CAaIIEzEA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                110.0       230.0    670.0                 890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSU!ITION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)     59.5       195.2    352.9                 701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27039.0    36431.0  46950.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5       13.2      14.4                 32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      100.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. AM.                      52.6        70.9      89.3                255.4                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    208.8      259.2    251.3                1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.7        46.2      41.9                 39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                        52.6        50.8      55.0                 56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         3.0       3.1                  3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.5                  2.3                     2.4
URBAN                             4.5         3.5       3.4                  3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.6        39.7      30.0                 31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    14.9        10.8       7.9                  9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1         2.8       2.0                  2.0                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       202.9/c  761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         7.6      39.0                 36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         92.0       100.0    125.0                 115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  99.0       100.7      96.9/d              106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.7        48.7      47.571               54.4                    66.0
OF W'HICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     1060        14.2      15.271d              13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    13.3         7.9       4.5                  6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   52.3        57.9      62.5                 59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         103.0        74.6      54.8                 63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      22.0/e               32.0                    65.6
URBAN                              ..        60.0      49.07;               51.9                    78.9
RURAL                              ..        10.0      12.07;i              20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      40.0/f               37.7                    59.3
URBAN                              ..        65.0      58.07?               65.7                    75.3
RURAL                              ..         8.0      36.07?               24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         7948.0      8446.8   8222.5/e              8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4857.9/8   7045.3   1166.27;               4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1384.4       896.1    821.0/e              1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                              ..       176.0    525.77;               651.6                   679.8
RURAL                              ..    13884.8   1278.47e               2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        31.0      44.8/e               27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.5/        5.8       5.5/e
URBAN                             5.3/        5.8       5.571e
RURAL                             5.67I       5.8       5.57e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..       2.4/e
URBAN                              ..          ..       2.2/.
RURAL                              ..          ..       2.4/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        18.9
URBAN                                        86.1
RURAL                                         9.0



- 48 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            M1IDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                83.0         81.0      82.0/d                 96.2                    104.3
MALE                 88.0         85.0      85.d7;i                99.8                   106.4
FEMALE               79.0         77.0      78.072                92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      29.0                   37.6                    41.3
MALE                 16.0         20.0      30.0                   41.1                    40.4
FE7ALE               10.0         14.0      28.0                  34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)    19.1         22.3      17.1/e                 20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                           36.2         34.7      28.9/d                 35.5                    29.9
SECONDARY                         19.8         15.5      26.97Te                25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0        78.6      84.0/e                ;73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.8         5.1       6.4/f                  9.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         76.2     131.0                  116.5                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAhD
POPULATION                          2.2         6.6      17.6                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6        20.5        ..                   53.7                    63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ArTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          1.8/h     1.7                    2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13859.9      16986.9   22428.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.4         46.8      46.0                   33.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             84.0         80.0      76.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.0          6.0       9.0                   17.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6      47.8                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 52.7        49.3      51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                              49.8         43.9      44.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         1.1       0.9                    1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCEhT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/g       23.8/i    14.0/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/g       49.77      2 42.2*-
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2T         6.171     7.67*-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9Li       15.97     19.1/.j
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     159.0                  194.7
RURAL                               ..           ..     106.0                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     115.0                  178.2                    518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     110.0                  164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      15.0                   24.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      34.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ja   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; /.  Preliminary data for
1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional
data overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
May, 1982



-49-                                                                                          ANNEX I
==IMOF moon UIntr                                                                                    Page  3  of  5
Xose:  Althoug  oh  d.      ate         foes 0-te  mooily jodsd the -ao orboitatis ood raiiot,to  It  h-ld ala ho totd fle  he   woo  ho tee J r--
eatsolIly tm.ribo  baee.  of rho1- toot  -tt4ordiod dfWtito-o ou    -proto  -a  by diEfe-It ee-tris  to celilottog the dote.  The dote  w,we
the .,  10 e  t  doroibo ordor. of aoitudo,  Aiter. Itrud., Aod ehorotortu  _orrio  -oJo, di!fotoc-     btore   rootoio..
The  uforers  roop  no(1)  he ese cooty grou.p of the arbjscr  -oorr  sod (2> o ov-tr  troop with ooohrhigher oceog S.oIos  tht rho conrytop
of the  -obietto-r,        (cp  for   'High tree         Oil toportore" grop shor  Khiddie iltoe  North Africa ond Kiddie Soot  to oIhoe  hoioo.e of oroo
eot-otrlffreftrio).  to thSeee t goo  dots the  -vrgwu ore Porolottue wighted orirthtit sore fut .-h toditotu  ord uhe  vty ehet
ejorIlty of rho tooto   to a trop hat doto for thet iototor   Stre  the co-Sr. of   -Iotlas asg the iedi--or  dopodo at the orstohitiY of data
sod iuou   Iifte    ootu  st to  -eetiou  It -ruiotgoouao  of too teir-to  to sooher.  Thee svrgo                           .r tely oefc1 It cougortg rho totu  of
ocote .oort o  u in  eae   the r.ootty red roforuree tr.Pu..
LAtA  (thoroood  q.etPwitore  oftro  hed - totot. urhu., tot  -o 1 -toutt    (total.
Torn1 - TorsO  euiato ore  tprotl  ud et  sod  Wlod ter;1979 dote,ohr    ttrt  dvddb  thei  reopoti-o oubr of hoepioi1 bode
jetotott-  ui-o   of Asritolt.to1 ott  sued togo-oity or P.-oary                          evoiolbw  to pblitt ad privote retes  Aed opottitted hoepitri otd tu
too erps. postoo-   mork-  oo  k,itthoo gord.- or to Iio fol1s  1979 tot..                      hailirotiveeeer.Heptt  se  .to lihto.ett poeuaeely etf fe
hy or isetor  phyelioio.  Oe-htiuh-tt  potLdoieg praiti-ipll   . orto-
GNP PCI CAPITA 10001 - tNP per topito s               ttae    or erret sorkt price... eel-           die   toe  r  tot irelodd.  totot houpitoi,l owve,  iretdo boOltb
Colottd hy oe   -oe-rioe  -tbd 00  Urtld tool iltiso  (1978-80 heete); 1960,                      ott  edieei ewteo  e  po roily etoffod hy *  hybyitioe  (hot by
1970, ad tori doto.                                                                               adiot  Iouotot,tote  edife. err.) ehiih uftte  tt-potiet.                 eo
dotit red Provide a limited togu of sedirol ftilittee.  for errt-
INSTY tteittgTION PER CAPITA - A--Io -oooutiet of tenercio1 t-ry (tea                                ttee1 pofpuuu orbo  boopiroto  i-ltot  fWor  prioetpoI/ge-erI hoopitoiu,
sod ttgoit.. pe            --1s,rtoo  gsu ed hydte-. eoiorod geothoosl etu-                       erd  -ora  hoopitoto, treo  or r_ro  hoepitalu ad sediert set atety
trtrtty) it bilog-s  of .-I oqlootP., oaritr; 1990, 1970  . sd 1979                               co-or-   Spoototlrod houpItolo ore irtodd soly  odortotl
dots.                                                                                           &btoieoa11   rot  pooito  lted - Tote  t,hor of  ddeteiot  to or dIethor-
eve hoprt       biie   y the cu.te  uf bode.
pgpUElT,IOg AND VITAL. STATISTICS
TKe orttot  gd-T-tr (thuesd.) - do of J.loy 1; 1960. 1970. ood tori0                forito
dot.Avro    teo   tohdtrrreot  hooeeodd) ..ttt.1 unto,- o  roai-
tlbha  Iooott(oto  of rein  -. estiu ut uctoc  to tutt  po,olotice;                               A hosobo- -    oit   fotopoftdvtoo'h hhero tine0 qvertor
tifetrdotitiea  of urhet 0000  00-     fotcpsohtt   fdt                                   t  theie eoie  -.ete.  A hbardeIt or   dg.to   yo  to  to  ho tootudu  It
oso   uoro;1960. 1970. oed t1r  tte                                                    the hoto-hoid for t           ..ito   pe.. va
.Popottioo Prolu-io. tuuAPt otro                                                                                      .....e 'ts  roe-  Ituto, orhot. cod roost -roeogeto
Popolotios to 0-000lO    - tCre-  pupuiotioe peeJectiene  -t hosd ootOt                          e  of9p0reot fper rottoot-ret   d   o                     iustd tur-riove
rot01 Ppop Iotol   hy age set two sod their suotlity sod fetility roe.ttliege.. ropetivety.  tottlirgooolteve-oretetdeoruee-d
Probntittposetr  for octratoy          rtoo lrof th_o 1e.l  tess-                              voCoPOd Poro..
Io& lif. eoecteoty ot birth tceoo  eth ts v   Per uopitt  te..e                            Aie... to El.IrIutty (reto...t of d-Iltitr) - rural, urhot, ad rorot -
teen   ortd fesote tifo tepetety oohittoiee or 775 yeoc.  Th. Pero-                          fuenvettIodot 1eiig   oit r1iretirity to tiotog qstr  00  ort.tog
too  - o  fottiIty rot  sloe hove Ittfo  love. 10 s -i.ge doctve                          of total  orhao  soaosIetoooeproey
fortuity etootditg to trees teot ed poo  f-slty pleoeirg potforeree
05th  -eotr  te th,o tigoed ou  of thee. trei ouetit  of soorsitry                       tofCATIO0
sod fwrtiil'ttyroude foeyrjcru   ou-poce.                                                   odjoote droletOt
itttroy   tristo   - teieoe-tioory popo1:Loro   hr   e    grehrIrce,                     Prior:   eoo  -  o           1t ml  otd fe-et  - t-ototo 1, mote sod fesot
the bitot   oeqs  ote tooh   tt, so   leer .                       tufotr-eoolotu  ci   gre of the pristy 1-vo  Ac per-tofg.t  of teupoetiv-
_ott  _o_etor   T is isehiord uly oftee  fitvo.tIYroe  dectiv  to                               prts-ty rhu-g  yoottt;oumity ioctutto  rhildtrr o0ed h-ti
hI,ry,oonr   dvt  f  st  ctterooriuotw, ot,oee-h eeuetotre                                     y-rr  tot edjeted for diiffreot I-tegho of p               drstotootoo; fut
ofoa  rpet  tet  eooy   The'rttor   peytsto   te  o                                          enrieo outh reteerea  od-cttot  ertl            .t sy        d IGO perceet
eotiinted 00 the tooiu of rho projctdeererteeo  the yoyoialeoI                                  streouepbyl              etto   hveroofittrhu  00.
.tobth  res  1000, sod the tot  o  tct of     o  terltr toruepSeo                             rodoto setou   - otl           1tt  .tt fe_ote - C    Iostfo  re ohev;o-otsr
tor ted i.                                                                                    eteti-o require  of 1sur foot ot-r  of opprved ytoytsrett
Toot  pfoiuotyrpoltion to. reacbod - fhe yost  h..e -iscovey  upotttp.ruie-geeri  rooruei  ortoh r,oste   totottocfrodo
it_ ett  heeote d.                                                                              2estyo   11 it t7000o;            g;curoodreroru   r   ooet
perso.he.- Hd-ystpopetuIioo  yet s.... ktlcoet-  (1tO  te--coo  of                      Oucotot  _ooloe  Ir_r_t of  _eeo_sy)                              _IuseIol  os icotooo
tttot;1960  1971so  1979 doto                                                          tectudo trhoiest. tot-rril. or  ttt- prootase ohich  ptottf  i roeyrd-
yet s. be.oeotorurI loot - C.epoted ocehove for ogric-t-ol loot                           oorly It ot derr- -ot  of eecoedooy toto tiot.
ucly; 1960, 1971 sod 1979 dec.t..ttt-te..cherroto                                                                    timory, .ct etctdory -TotI otudouteecroietl to
yvopiLttie Aoe Structure (poeto..t) - Chtldroo  (0-t4 ye-r),  -oritu-sgo  tti-                    pi-ry so  seooor  1toel  divided hy rtr  of trootree io the
64   ort  so  retiirod (65 yesr  ot  over  Ps pr.rcErege  of octy-reor ut-                      c-r-peodioi Iel.,
Utoior; 196. 1970  soIdtftdtsAdoit tLeoort  (ooe)-ittetot  odolte tot to totoo   od -ittet
Gorlotooo  ho toe(eco) -_ _ro    - .trJ growth rot_  of eurot mid-                           Aoprtestof toto1 s.toi  pupolotioc o0ed t5 yeoosd ovet
yrorPPlll p       "Iotu    for i5t.6t  t9h-71  . sd  91-9.
IPuoliriur  otH oto (oocot) -Iot"s  - Mvost gto-o  rotor of o-ho  P000-                       COetStlTION
ietog   o  190-60, 1960-70, .rd 1970-80.PIeotore  tut  ,(ret hoo-ir  -oeUltiel-   (ootgr  ue -uPriemoo
Crude Otrth tote (yoc othot...d) - Aeos Itfc ti-oho reIthflouod of etd-y-e                         csreeoto  tos  he  itht poto...o; e-iodro etoi1ct.to, heerer  sot
yoyolstluo; 1060, 1970, sod 199  dot.                                                           sOltfoy totc'.
Crud tethtI           I ee  tho..ootl - Me..olItooths  . yth.Iosod  of etd-yooo                  odic recever  leer tthtod  uocetue   - AII11 tv  of reeoers- fur rodio
rureItiortu;190, 970  oct1990 toto.                                                             b- hr        I Hots .. t   froro  rottic pot thosod of pouoto; e"Iou  so-
Gtrue  toprodeeteI-t       ooc ~og_e_S  outer of dtutorhes resce  ilt1 toot to                     ticevo.. oet. eo  r oucou  ott to yesro Veho  togito too .tdi.
her  -es  reptrodottue period tif oh:t oertooprsu  oe-epeifit  Itc-                             re-cost  o effort; dtof  fur receot reov   oy ourb he-ps-oleoior
totlity Ote  uooello f toe-peto          r   e"tuo to 1960, tO70, ted 1900 -soo.t coorIIIe  btoltahetlitet
yelPloirAcc-otore. A-tl Ittuoto.te) -   -oot ucebr of c_reyrur                        TV ORreivrs (perItostreleorur,) - TV rci-ere fur hroodt..t to
ofy ttt-etu    etouudrotte  of ooftuool foetly PIo...iegp0gm                                    gooesl-ptit   ot iuto   uosi,;ertoe    riootT   o vr
tootle Ploeotu-oso   lercerof  -orttd                     P...o.- 'oteosg   of mond               teuerteo   t   er  ehe  regit-trsti     of TV  -r -o  to effec.-
secofcld;-teoIt  000 (15-44 peocs)  h.t oa  tiort-c_ tro   dottot                       Oeroo Itslv                -le  tht...odo .. eolotittoe  - Shueo the  vreero
oil esitd oooio se    ego go_p.                                                                  -1lottoe of udetty gevers1 Iuere .      e..I   et, dftoet so A  oriodref'
robhl..tcoi d-v-rd primotily to re-odive  gotre evet.- It Ito .o.ottered
foot tilt vttyrtlt                                                                                  c tf butotiy.. if I itopesroe   test  fourtia eI -oek
todeo of Pout Pu-oottu  vet Cocits (16-71-1001  - Lode ofto  colt itsouvIo                     itee  MorelAtortedort co  Cetito Per-          t  - votd ue the eotor of
Pr"d"tt, iof o'Ilfoco           itte.. O9odorItu  r             .ot . oed ood toot ord          -thtool derie  the year, te-tdor.  tdedostuosIrote
to Ioh cooodor  -eo  hosts.  Cudidtto   cove  pri-sry eoutu leg. eptrove                        sod -nttle  sort..
itoorod of eugut) ~tctorteditto  sod  -orst  to too(. r. coffee ord
votitot   evetaf  produce  price veghtc; i961-65,  9190  sot980 doos.                         Tuto1 Lf.oh    Purce (thoot.oto) - Eroroet-olty stive p.rs..o, tortudico
Pe     -1io  oeyofclrr  Ipvet ot _oout_teet) -Cotote-d fry                                 tr='  foyers ottdooeo-toyodb te  eortdit goeeeo   tuot,o
eeery eqirstet o  vetfeodoppleovtse ieroooery Per r.pit IIvrtu  y toti of ott sfeo   t.ftitotot  otc    oore   o
Per top.  Avottohi, eupyltot  -opolee dom Ist        P, reocrtoo-  ispot Iee o..ut ceugooblo; 196t 1970 out 1900 d-v..
vout,od ohooge  Ie otuck.  t.t euppjitt ... lode  uolto.u e                                F-cole (potre..t) - PsieLotor force  -oPer           f%o,g of toesl iobr force.
qostittot uodi  food PIr.eotfog, dsot ItIs...t itbtru.     toqIro                              trirlltor  (rret) -              Itto  forc  to fere.. f.e..p  h,ettog set
_tott orro  ortoitot hy FAO hos.ed or phystulugtoort fo   oro                tir-                 fiettog 00 t . poerot ogif ro.t tote  fort; i960  L1970 sd 1980 tot.
ticy od hoolhl  ...oidorlEg   rioste    beodoor,    y -oEihoot, oolde    rrot  - Lohor forst-                                            itc Iootortu,    uefott..irg
ott 000 tIotrihortio  of ypel,ttt.or   odtuleo   It roccet for eer  ofto  o.terteir ry   _o-r  od go   e  ecotr  of totr1l.bthr force
houo-hold Irvol; 1961-65. 1970 odt toll tots.                                                     1960. 1970 sod 1990 dtot.
Per rePito  _pel  of ulpoutrie (tees- pe  tool - Protrtucou--o  of po   ois                     t'oitoi t.tt  tror) -too,oe,otemo-Osetic ipol                                  r
00  opyly of food Per ty.  te  opIyf rood t  dofti-   sosoo,i-                                sctvtyrsreootto.potdr.tstert  sl,  o                         Ifslelte fIc
-uti--t  foeol  IoII.tr  otehtohetl ty  tt   prot   fotoo   epo_-ortegs of foit1, moto eod frole pypolortiu  of oilogr  -ope tvly;
lloltlesec, of to rr-o  of  -etl proreto 'or toy sto  20 oroo  of aeto1 set                     196t, 1970, sod 19ti toto.  eheceor  tote.d or  LO'o pIrrtotu    orso
rotor protect, of shirt to 9S000  htotld to cutest preto.  Thooeotsrod-                         r-fl-rto`sg-evu efoorec          of et   pooot od t  loeg c--e  -ood.A
sIdo er  tto  thso  oteh of7)  rom  ofoco  pot                d to 3 gosm  of                   ire  _crietres oro frIw  _otooloO_
s imo  prtt   osevrf   o   h _worl'd,poot hy 0AD60  teho  Third                               tr-utoi  Dopeoteec   ~tofl   - totto  of yeo  dtovcoe  15 set 65 to d e
Wotld Peod Survy; 1961-65, 1970 tot 1977 deIr.                                                  to the  _vtu  lhvr furry.
Per -ovtts proeete outdo free sor,Edt ott roto- pruott   oupply of food do-
otret fry. ootmoe sod poltot to Eooa  Per toy; 1961-65. 1977 oed 1977 dots.                 MOCMh ttfIsnBTOit
Child logoo 1-4 ) tooth  Utot  boo rhocotod  - Arou"t teach. yr th...od toPtttsoo   oooetrm   (bteh to coo  and bitt>  - to--do hy otch-o
Ego Stoop-  yootc. coclttrItothctoIg  gyuII p,fomeevlpfcc-                                     S rot.tr otpott,oret d_.Ogtor_cevo~-  0     0  -      , ortdcur-c  4O erors
roles tuft d-et-d tro  llfe tshlee; 1960. 1970 atd 0990 tots.                                   of heosehuldo.
0EALT0                                                                                          P000000 TARGET 000UP0
Life cEpector..or t icti lyoaro -a t7e"g   roste  of reore of ttfr  -emirtog                    The fotIuwn  eottre   ste  -ey oppruoroof  aeseoeIof tevetto tvets,
or tintb; 1960, 1970 t-I 1990 dtots                                                             tnd shud he toreoprered 60th.. coetbeolrort
toorHotelto Itac Ipto. thesord) -  -sto  desthe of irfaoout o odtt..  ye-                  tEriaatd Ab_elot Pver Iccm    so 170 pee Ioo"P                  -  rtee sod tuet-,
of Ee Per thoresd tire hiorho; 1960  1070 sot 190  ot.                                           blie p-vety Iecu   tev-I to thot iRUmo  .ovl hol  ohih s ~.oAoeo
Accoor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                        b ivtf.ue   eroro   uclrot-trl   ta,rd r-c1 - Nu-  rotittoolly odeqote dist pi...e...tcolto  out- food    Iourtot   tore
two of.pept  (tosi  uoboe, oct reroll 'fth Itoso..L   rseecof                                    f f.rd.be..
oue   sry(toclodro  cretw aros   ree0otecd oto f..cooosed                             fo tofd tooiePuvery tresovl(US$ re  -oeif    -ortac sod ottot1
e  .-eP'.ho   thor fous protected borehoto  spiogo,oteetr    ie    t                         ies   eotsporytct  level-Iot0-f btieafoeoeprcpt
Ptorott0ee of their roepecrive pupol.i-tte .    se brtt oesopblic                               peuoo   reso  the cesory.  toter level to derived (ooth  tota
fos Ioaso    Aotoopoo   us    co  mor  the = 290 arr  frutor b               y he-ev    etob sdjo-feot for higher c-at of liio                           tosttarso
rocuidored sob tieg. rithi    -.-brslw  -ce of ththous.    teuesrootiestud Potol.rion inl   AhobotePovery Ieve  ite p-1                                            e)     r
rusetobt  orreou  euod ruply that rho hoosotf  or-               uof r"ho hsUehei               svt rort1  Prerour of rpois2.tico   o          Meer  oct1)h  ore   oeort.
do set her  te  pood A dioproperti-tt  port of the toy  to fetthirg  the                        poor
Mems i  frreo itaoes (rorofof porulstirve  - tutol, orhe, sod totl 
*e~to  of repl  tioet  oho. od roto1) served by  -orta diapseul.0I
th     fthiorsoso   Iopusl.eb   0  e.Pletoo e- rnt  of- hsoo.-     etwe
sod   - -s-to  ty outer-ere  oyo-  or rho  u  of Pi   rvu    e   ri
let totl*tuoe
Foprlot=urpr Ph,eio   Potolotto  divided by rsbor of pretstiig phyaj-                                                                  Koo-eet  sod Sati  tots  l ifiis
cite  qoolIf td tress .adgool coor t   o= "riy " ' bet                                                                          UotoL. Aolyoto ted Projotot.. DopaIte-
Pooltiot Per WI=ro t -cPr        -Potriedivie  by a,uto  ofpeoooeOy 1962
fot  a   tat  grodrote Inse, totis te sortot  prrricol  -sue  ad



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Pa.ge 4 f
Population    :  47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at              Average annual increaae (2)                      Share of GDP at market prices (%)
current prices)                  (at constant prices)                                (at current prices)
Indicator                       1981 /a        1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960              1970         1975         1981!-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product        36,808            8.4       6.3       7.6        5.5         5.4     100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                  8,935            5.5       5.3       3.2       3.7         4.0       39.8         28.3          31.5         24.3
Industry                    10,399           11.5       7.8     11.4        6.6         6.0       18.7         25.3         24.8         28.2
Services                    17,474            9.0       7.1      7.9        6.3         5.7       41.5         46.4          43.7         47.5
Consumption                   27,920            7.3       7.0       7.5       4.4         4.8       85.7          78.7         79.3         75.9
Gross investment              10,278           15.8       3.8       8.2        3.0        6.0       15.7          26.2         25.4         27.9
Exports of GNFS                9,212           10.5       3.6     13.4        8.9          6.9      17.4          16.7         19.1         25.0
Imports of GNFS               10,899           13.9       3.7     10.5         2.9         5.7      18.9          21.5         23.7         29.6
Gross national savings          7,716          13.7       4.1       5.5        8.0         7.1      14.1          21.5         20.7         21.0
Composition of merchandise trade (Z)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980    1985/b  1990/7
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            7,013            5.5       9.0      14.4        7.0         5.8    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                      4,530            4.2      6.6      10.0        6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.8    38.7
Manufactures                 2,483           29.2      20.9     25.1        7.7         6.4       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.2    61.3
Merchandise imports            9,933           11.5       3.3      10.8        2.8         5.7    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                           380            4.3     -2.7      11.9        0.0         5.0       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4        3.7      3.7
Petroleum                    2,982           11.8      5.0       8.7        1.4         4.7      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    29.8    33.5
Machinery & equipment        2,494           16.1       5.9      7.4        3.7         6.2      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    24.0    22.7
Others                       4,077           10.1       1.0      9.3        3.7         6.2      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    42.5    40.1
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      136.9      159.3      173.6
Exchange rate                                        20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5       21.82
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.7      153.3
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      175.6      197.4
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.4       77.7
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980           1981/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                       13.6           13.8           13.2            14.0           13.9
Current expenditures                                  10.6            12.6           11.8           13.5            13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                            +3.0            +1.2           +1.4           +0.5           +0.8
Capital expenditure                                     4.3            5.8            3.4             3.9            3.5
Foreign financing                                       0.2            0.1            0.1             0.2            0.2
1960-70         1970-75         1975-80          1980-85/b         1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                           8.4             6.2              6.9             5.6                5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                5.2             3.4              4.4             3.6                3.9
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0              3.4             4.0                3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23             0.21            0.3                0.3
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6              1.3             0.5                1.05
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
February 10, 1983



-51-                                                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population      :  47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita:   US$738 (1981)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                     Projected
Indicavor                          1970    1976    1977        1978     1979     1980    1981/d  1982       1983     1984    1985    1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
services                                  1,103    3,490   4,029   4,976   6,456   7,939   8,496   9,146  10,300  11,880  13,652  15,527  25,722
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.               686   2,959   3,454   4,045   5,234   6,449   6,883   6,974    7,820   8,949  10,205  11,513  18,334
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                                 -1,430  -3,892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,686 -10,183 -11,425 -13,096 -14,957 -16,923 -27,578
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,928  -8,544  -9,591 -11,004 -12,581 -14,249 -23,278
Net factor income from  abroad                  23      -62      _99    -266    -480    -236    -498    -492    -413    -394    -370    -348    -251
Net transfers                                   49       23       40       40       60      209       164      194      192      210      232    -255       370
Current account balance                      -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,079  -2,525  -1,335  -1,346  -1,400  -1,443  -1,489  -1,737
Private direct investment                       43       79      106       50       51      187      288       179      225      248      272      299      438
MLT loans (net)                                 32      248      346      670   1,418    1,665   1,631         876   1,380   1,650   1,926   2,018    2,132
Official                                     21      109       181      290      488      569      621   1,371    2,043   2,024   1,885   1,676   1,554
Private /a                                   10       139      165      380      930   1,096   1,010    -495    -663    -374             41      342      578
Other capital /b                                93      219      740      782   1,160       153      307       282       70       48      252      293       32
Change in reserves                              82      -96      -95    -349      -543       74      299       -2    -329       -450    -503    -535    -865
International reserves                        906   2,113   2,209    2,557    3,100   3,026   2,727    2,729    3,058    3,508    4,011    4,546   7 459
Reserves as months imports                       8        7        5        5         5        4        3        3        3        3        3        3         3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Concesgional iloans                           11       52       78      153      242      230      223      460      627       726      665      583      697
DAC                                        11       45       50       86       178      176      189      392      546      654      620       563      697
IDA                                         -        7        9         5        4        5       21       17       19       16        12        5        -
Other                                       -        -        19       62       60       49       13       61       62        56       33       15        -
Nonconcessional loans                       188      467       585   1,133   1,816   2,154   2,028    1,288    1,709    2,105   2,634   3,114   4,805
Official export credits                     7        -       32         -        -        3       80       56       39       30         8        -        -
IBRD                                       19       43       65      103       139      143      289      250      319      402      500       570      661
Other multilateral                          2       46       33        46       36       83       64      212      212      225      312       385      457
Private publicly guaranteed                17      101      106      411      842       898      805      707   1,084    1,041       982      929    1,275
Private nonguaranteed                     143      277      349      573      799   1,027        790       64       55      406      831   1,231    2,411
Total gross disbursements                   199      519       663   1,286   2,058   2,384   2,251   1,748    2,336   2,831    3,299    3,697    5,502
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public debt outstanding &
disbursed                                   328      823   1,119    1,820   2,832    4,128    5,169   6,715   8,577  10,259  11,784  13,112  18,092
Official                                  291      672      895   1,254   1,671    2,315   2,843   4,307    6,350   8,374  10,260  11,936  17,852
Private                                    37      151      224       566   1,161    1,813   2,326    2,412   2,227    1,885   1,524   1,176            240
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed                 382      785      880      931   1,243   1,703   2,099    1,623    1,141    1,109    1,510   2,200   5,523
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                 710   1,608   1,999   2,751   4,075    5,831   7,268   8,338   9,718  11,368  13,294  15,312  23,615
Undisbursed debt                            118       840   1,364   1,899    2,361    3,004   3,081    3,796   3,916   3,892    3,826    3,760   4,867
Debt Service
Total service payments                      162      378       442      812      962   1,224    1,325   1,689    1,785   2,081   2,357    2,786   5,115
Interest                                   16      107      126      196      322       505      686      817      830      900      98,4   1,107    1,744
Payments as 2 exports of goods and         14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4           15.6    18.5    17.3    17.5    17.3    17.9    19.9
nonfactor services
Average interest rate on new loans
(%) Ic                                        6.8       7.8      7.0      6.8      7.6      9.3    10.2       9.5      9.5       9.5      9.6      9.6      9.6
Official                                    6.8       7.9      6.1      5.6      5.4      6.8      7.4         -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                     6.0       7.3      8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8           -         -        -        -        -        -
Average maturity of new loans
(Years) Ic                                   18.9     17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
Official                                   19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    22.4    21.1    22.4               -         -        -        -        -        -
Private                                    11.2       7.3      7.9      9.4     10.0      8.6      9.3         -        -        -        -        -        -
Bank GrupExposure (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                         22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    12.9    13.8             14.6    15.5    16.4    17.3    18.3
IBRD disbursements/total gross
disbursements                             9.5      8.3    10.0       8.6       7.0      6.1    13.0    14.3    13.7    14.2    15.2    15.4    12.0
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                                  11.1      9.6     10.0       6.8      6.9      6.5      6.8      7.4      8.4      8.8     10.0    10.9    12.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                             -      0.7       1.0      0.9      0.7      0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9       0.9      0.9      0.8      0.5
IDA disbursements/total gross
disbursements                               -      1.3      1.3       0.4      0.2      0.2      0.9      1.0      0.8      0.6       0.4      0.1      0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                     -      0.0      0,0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
As % of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                                   48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                                  71.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                 11.2
/a  Due to change in classification, projected data for "private MLT loans" include some of the category "other capital".
7W "Other capital" includes net use of IMF funds and net flow of short-term capital.
72 Historical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
7d Preliminary.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty five loans and three credits fully disbursed                  814.19  31.74          -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -   28.18
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    1.99
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.17
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber         50.00        -    1.68
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -    7.83
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.00         -    1.60
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -   12.42
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          50.00        -    5.29
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/a  9.84
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways;     110.00        -   19.09
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -    3.00
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing         8.60        -    5.88
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -   76.22
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -   12.11
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban Trans.  16.00         -   11.60
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways       16.70        -    8.14
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          80.00        -   39.58
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   35.00   25.96
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture        -   25.00   20.09
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Ag. Extension 40.00         -   29.70
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          80.00        -   25.21
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                   Natural Gas
Thailand                                Pipeline   107.00/b       -   10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    80.00         -   67.51
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                      Ag. Credit    19.00         -    8.13



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power                72.00     -        39.98
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                   Water Supply        40.00      -       38.88
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Housing             29.00      -       27.33
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity         Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification       75.00     -        71.08
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Inland Waterways   53.00       -        51.71
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ports               47.00      -       46.72
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ag. Research        30.00      -       29.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Potash Engineering  8.90       -         6.11
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                 Industry            30.00      -        5.71
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power              100.00      -       99.26
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Irrigation          57.00      -       56.36
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Provincial Roads   35.00       -       30.45
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand            Tree crops         142.00      -      142.00
2178     1982   Kingdom of Thailand            Education           75.00      -       75.00
2184     1982   Petroleum Authority of         Liquified Petro-
Thailand                      leum Gas          90.00      -       90.00
2198     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c         Agriculture          17.00     -        17.00
Total                                                       2,739.90/d 124.84   935.26
of which has been repaid                                    299.25      2.28
Total now outstanding                                       2,440.65   121.99
Amount sold /e                       68.63
of which has been repaid           52.34                     16.29
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              2,424.36   121.99
Total undisbursed                                             879.37    55.89
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/b  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
/c  Not yet effective.
7d  Total does not include loan of $142.1 million to the Telephone Organization
of Thailand approved by Board on May 13, 1982, but signed only on
December 20, 1982.
/e  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-54 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                  0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                     -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                   Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34        5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials           63.00    4.00       67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                  -    0.15       0.15
1982   Sea Minerals Limited    Mining                            -    0.33       0.33
Total gross commitments                             100.98    9.94    110.92
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            67.92    2.71      70.63
Net held by the Corporation                          33.06    7.23      40.29
Total undisbursed                                    15.86    0.25       16.11



55 -                 ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1982)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the projects success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation works and on-farm works for 62,000 ha under Part A
of the project and rehabilitation works for 138,000 ha under Part B of the
project have been completed in accordance with the appraisal schedule.
Under Part C, the Mae Klong component for construction of service roads
and a sugarcane pilot project are behind schedule, but all works should be
completed before the closing date on June 30, 1983.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 56 -                 ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million Loan of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind
schedule. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project
area, and work on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles. Canal rehabilitation work is progressing
satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to delays in
design work.
Loan No. 2022      Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and about 30 km of main and lateral canals
have been rehabilitated and/or constructed. A contract for construction of
about 60 km of main and lateral canals was awarded in August 1982. A Plan
of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation Department was prepared by
the department in September 1982.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Construction of almost 1,100 km of vil:Lage access roads is complete
and is under way on the remaining 200 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has provided 3,100 freshwater wells. The agricultural extension component
was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the National Extension Project (Loan
1393-TH). The upland crops component is being satisfactorily completed and
research work is being continued by the National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 1922-TH). The village electrification component has been
completed with electrification of about 475 villages. The land settlement
.component is essentially complete; cash incomes of pilot cooperating farmers
were roughly doubled in the project period, and settlement cooperative
placed on a sound footing.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date:  May 25, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is one and a half years behind schedule due to
procurement difficulties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in
agreeing on the formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The
replanting rate over the project period has been slower than that envisioned
at appraisal, but the target of 50,000 ha is expected to be reached in 1982.
Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the Office of the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disbursements for the
project are expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date:  September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating
reasonably satisfactorily, although a shortage of technical messages is
reducing its effectiveness. Vehicles, including motorbikes for village-
level extension workers, remain in short supply. Shortages of audio-visual
aids and counterpart funds for day-to-day operations are also adversely
affecting progress. Subject matter specialist training is being given
priority attention. Civil works construction is nearing completion and
disbursement has improved considerably in recent months. An undisbursed
balance of US$1.6 million remained on September 25, 1982 and action is
being taken to extend the closing date to permit completion of outstanding
civil works and full loan disbursement.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and disburse-
ments are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject matter specialist training
is being given priority attention, as also is the relevance of the
information being disseminated to farmers through the "T and V" system.



- 58 -                  ANNEX II
page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending in the North and Northeast, to be financed under the project, is
progressing well. Implementation of works under the specified lending
component, however, has been slow. The most critical factor affecting the
financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels for agriculture.
Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative Promotion Department
and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their training activities and in
the construction of regional and provincial stafLf housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months seriously affected project implementation, although
much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The provision of an
adequate budget for FY82 and Cabinet approval of the reorganization plan for
the Department of Agriculture on March 23, 1982 removed certain obstacles to
effective implementation. However, progress remains slow due to disagreement
regarding details of the reorganization plan and ineffectual top-level
management. A new Director General was appointed on October 1, 1982, and
implementation progress is expected to accelerate! shortly under his
experienced leadership.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 Million Loan of January 29,
1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
The loan has recently been declared effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Closing Date
has been extended to allow more time to utilize remaining unused funds for
the purchase of technical and educational equipment.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project implementation is satisfactory.



- 59 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Under new management, the project is moving ahead smoothly and
rapidly, and disbursements have improved considerably over the past year.
Project implementation is now running, on the average, about 12 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Six of the ten national level training
facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health facilities, 374
have been completed, 33 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted.
The final round of procurement of equipment and furniture is currently
underway. Most training, information/education/communication, and
population-related research and evaluation activities have been completed
on schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been success-
fully launched and Government has recently approved the use of most of
the remaining funds for Innovative Activities for testing new ideas in
continuing education and the role of mass communication in health
education.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
.June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract. The National
Housing Authority (NHA) has reached agreement with the existing contractor
to complete the work. Good progress has been made on the various policy
concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
There has been a significant improvement in all aspects of the
project. While no action seems probable on area road pricing, progress
has been made in implementation of the bus lane system, parking
restrictions/charges, experimentation of staggered work hour system and
noise abatement. Construction is now underway on several traffic
improvement schemes. Bank is currently considering extending the closing
date by three years once formal decision is taken to proceed with traffic
signal system expansion and upgrading.



- 60 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980, Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984
This project expands the National Housing Authority (NHA) programs
initiated in Bangkok under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH) and extends the sites and services
program to five regional cities. Design and procurement are proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction has commenced in Bangkok and the regional
cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date:  January 4, 1982;
Closing Date:  April 3, 1986
Engineering consultants were appointed in January 1982, about one
year later than originally expected due to the Borrower's inexperience in
hiring outside consultants.  A UNDP-financed adviser has been appointed
to assist the borrower in these and related matters.  Tariff increases have
been requested by the Provincial  aterworks.  Decision pending Government
approval.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule.  The three units of
turbine generators are operating satisfactorily.  Good progress is being
made under the transmission line and substation components associated with
the project.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of M4arch 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 4,653 villages, out of which 3,660
villages have alreadly been electrified. The load promotion program started
in April 1981. Disbursements have accelerated and are very close to initial
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about 46% complete, three months behind schedule
because of poor soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field
works are now proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected
to catch up with the original schedule.  The first unit is targeted for
commissioning in July 1983, as scheduled.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date:  February 28, 1985
The project is about 30% complete, one year behind schedule
because of unexpectedly poor rock foundation, but works are now underway
satisfactorily. Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates.
Construction of the resettlement program started at all f ive sites.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981,
Closing Date:  June 30, 1986
Construction started in 360 villages for the first 18 provinces;
138 villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 2000       Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Effective Date:  October 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Bids for the diversion tunnel works will be awarded in October
1982 for the Chiew Larn Hydroelectric component of the project.  The
Lang Suan Hydroelectric project has been postponed. EGAT is considering
alternative subprojects to replace it.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule.  The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works have been completed. The project
is being completed on schedule and within the original cost estimate.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is on schedule with mine production reaching 1.2 mil-
lion tons in 1981. Some shortage in truck hauling capacity, however, can
be anticipated in 1983.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1947      Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981:
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The actual progress of the project is two months behind contract
work schedule due to custom clearance delays. T'hese problems, however, have
now been resolved.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is over 85%
completed. However, for three of the roads the bidding and awards were
delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bidding and award of contracts in
March 1979 on a link road financed wholly by the Government. Completion of
the project has thus been delayed about twelve months.  The maintenance equip-
ment has been procured and with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with the road maintenance program is improving. The studies are
nearing completion. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) has been completed and is underway on
roads for future projects.
Loan No. 2035      Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Contracts have been awarded on 19 roads, and are expected to be
awarded short]Ly on the remaining four. Proposa:Ls have been obtained for a
Transport Study.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Mainly due to slow progress in procuresment of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about
US$2.9 million remains unallocated.  Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and the Closing Date was recently extended to December 31, 1983.
Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability of passenger
and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial position of
SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff increases for
passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because of a
subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.



- 63 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Loan No. 2143 Fourth Telecommunications Project; $142.1 Million Loan;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been signed.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Contracts for most of the required technical assistance and
consultant services have now been let. However, project is substantially
behind schedule due to delays in appointing consultants, preparing procure-
ment documents and acquiring land. A major extension of the project time
schedule is inevitable.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is far behind schedule mainly due to the Government
of Thailand's decision to take a different course of action concerning the
future development and utilization of Klong Toei and Sattahip and the role
of Laem Chabang. The project will be assessed to determine whether (a)
the project needs to be reformulated and adjusted accordingly, or (b) the
project be continued on the basis of an agreed detailed action plan to be
carefully monitored.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, with TOT awarding contracts for most of
the Bank financed items. The financial condition of the borrower continues to
be satisfactory.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Effective Date: May 13, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan was fully disbursed as of July 19, 1982. Implementation
of the structural adjustment program is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 64 -                  ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 2178 Sixth (Secondary) Education Project; $75 Million Loan
of July 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 2184 Liquified Petroleum Gas Project; $90 Million Loan of
August 17, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1987
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 2198 Land Reform Project; $17 Million Loan of September 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 65 -
ANNEX III
THAILAND
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Government Presentation to the Bank: April 1982
(b) Reconnaissance Mission: June/July 1982
(c) Appraisal: November-January 1983
(d) Completion of Negotiations: March 1983
(e) Planned Effectiveness: July 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Prior to October 31, 1983 or other agreed date, the Bank would
review the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program as set forth in the Letter of Development Policy.
Section III - Special Conditions
Implementation of agreements relating to agriculture and rural
development, industry, energy, fiscal policy and institutional development
as set forth in the Annex to the Letter of Development Policy.



A-=E I V
- 66 -a-gel -of 20
THAILAND
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Letter of Development Policy
Bangkok, March 7, 1983
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: Second Structural Adjustment Loan
I. Introduction
As you are aware, the Royal Thai Government in 1981 began a series
of policy reforms collectively described as Structural Adjustment. These
reforms, along with several key economic and social development programs, were
drawn together as a central theme for the development strategy in the Fifth
Five-Year Plan, which began in October 1981. In February 1982 the Government
submitted its Letter of Development Policy for the first World Bank Struc-
tural Adjustment Lc,an (SAL).  This loan supported a number of measures aimed
at achieving the me!dium- and long-term structural adjustment strategies of
the Fifth Plan. With the preparation for and implementation of SAL I, the
Government began a more systematic approach to the structural adjustment
process.
It is our judgment that the structural adjustment process which
began to be institutionalized under SAL I has already proven to be of vital
importance in stabilizing and strengthening economic development in
Thailand. And, it is important to consider this as EL process, in our view,
since the specific targets and steps taken to achieve structural adjustment
will change and evolve over time as circumstances and conditions shift with
economic trends and the results of prior measures.  Ihe Bank contributes to
this process in an important way, both through the lcoan funds and through
the technical assistance provided in connection with the SAL concept.
II. Recent World Economic Development, The State of the Thai Economy
and Adjustment Policies
The world economic recession of 1980-82 is proving to be one of the
deepest and longest during the post war period. High inflation led to the
adoption of restrictive monetary policies by many developed countries. By
1982 the rate of increase in the price level had been considerably reduced,
but at the cost of high real interest rates, a severe recession in the world
economy and falling commodity prices. As a consequence, the world is
experiencing record post war unemployment levels which have led to the
adoption of protective measures by several countries. Furthermore, the high
interest rates in the world financial markets are adding considerably to the
developing countries- foreign debt burden. Although there are signs of a
world economic recovery, which could take place in 1983, this recovery is
only expected to be a gradual one.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 20
- 67 -
The Thai economy was severely affected by these developments in the
world economy; at first by the oil price explosion in 1979-80, and later by
world economic recession, high interest rates and the collapse of the
commodity prices. Thailand's GDP growth rate, which averaged 7-8% per annum
during the past two decades, fell to 5.8% in 1980, 6.3% in 1981 and finally
to 4.2% in 1982, the lowest annual growth rate during the past 10 years. The
manufacturing and construction sectors, which have been the major driving
force behind the Thai economy in the past, experienced markedly lower growth.
The manufacturing growth rate has fallen to 5-6% per annum during the past
three years (compared with a consistently high growth of over 10% over the
past 20 years), while the construction sector contracted by 5-6% in 1981 and
experienced virtually no growth in 1982.
Apart from the adverse external factors, the Government's fiscal
and monetary policy, aimed at bringing down the widening external deficits,
also contributed to the domestic slowdown. Specifically, private investment
recorded an average annual reduction of 3.4% during the past three years, as
a result of domestic recession and a high real interest rate. However, the
lower economic growth and slump in investment have helped to relieve
pressures on the balance of payments despite the deteriorating terms of
trade. The trade and current account deficits were reduced to 42.0 billion
baht (4.9% of GDP) and 28 billion baht (3.3% of GDP) in 1982 compared with
the corresponding values of 65.8 billion baht (8.4 of GDP) and 55.7 billion
baht (7.0% of GDP) in 1981. Moreover, the level of price inflation has
fallen dramatically from 19.7% in 1980 to 5.3% in 1982, mainly as a result
of the fall in agricultural prices. However, the economic downturn and the
fall in imports (by about 7%) in 1982 have caused the level of Government
revenue to stagnate in nominal terms and to fall as a percentage of GDP from
14.1% in 1981 to 13.3% in 1982, thereby widening considerably the level of
the Government cash deficit, to over 5% of GDP.
Looking further ahead, the labor force is expected to grow by 3%
over the coming years, and if economic growth remains at a much lower level
than before, productive employment will emerge as a major issue. Moreover,
the fall in the world commodity prices has also led to falling domestic
agricultural prices, thereby worsening the rural-urban income distribution.
This together with the bleak employment situation clearly indicates the need
to adopt structural adjustment policies in order to restore the momentum of
growth, without jeopardizing external and internal financial stability.
Originally, the Thai Government had hoped to rely on exports to
alleviate the external deficits and provide the main driving force in the
manufacturing and agricultural sectors as well as to create employment.
However, the worsened world economy, with only a moderate recovery expected in
1983, and the increasing protectionist tendencies will cause the level of
exports to fall considerably below target. It has now become quite clear
that the Government will need to rely more on the use of prudent fiscal and
monetary policies and structural adjustment measures in order to keep the
external deficit at a sustainable level, at the same time that growth in



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 20
- 68 -
income and employment is restored to the maximum extenl: possible. This could
be achieved through improvements in resource management: and planning and
through the provision of appropriate incentives for the agricultural, indus-
trial and energy sectors.  These, then constitute the major components of the
Thai SAL process, initiated by SAL I and being carried forward by SAL II.
III.  SAL I:  Implementation of Actions Towards Structural Adjustment
The Government has implemented a number of structural adjustment
measures in agriculture, industry, energy, fiscal policy and institution
building, which were formulated in the letter of development policy under
SAL I. Additional measures in certain key areas have also already been
implemented as a contribution to the SAL II package. The progress in each
key area can be highlighted as follows:
Fiscal Policy
(a) Tax Policy
A fundamental goal of the SAL program is to overcome the economic
and fiscal conditions which foster balance of payments current deficits at
unacceptably high levels. Therefore, under SAL I we undertook various
changes in tax rates, administration and legislation that are moving Thailand
gradually towards an improved tax structure. In FY82 changes were made in
corporate income and business taxes as well as customs duties, and taxes on
capital gains from selling of immovable property and interest income were
introduced. Exemptions on personal income taxes were rationalized. The net
estimated effect of these changes was about B 4 billion which was the
targeted increase under SAL I. We also introduced in October 1982 a total of
over B 10 billion or 1% of GDP as a contribution to our SAL II policy
package. On the tax administration side, the measures agreed under SAL I to
improve administration and enforcement in the revenue department were
completed almost a year ahead of schedule. The Royal Decree for the reform
of the revenue department became effective in April 1982 and the program for
the internal administrative reforms in the department is now under way.
(b) Fiscal Strategy
The Government has made considerable progress in developing
a medium-term fiscal strategy which incorporates the fiscal objectives of the
Fifth Plan (as modified in the light of recent events) and delineates a
phased action program and specific policy measures envisaged under this
strategy. In formulating this strategy, the Government reiterates its
commitment to the basic Fifth Plan objective of restoring domestic and
external stability without undue deterioration in employment and income
generation. In view of the prolongation and deepening of the international
recession and the steep deterioration in the Thai terms of trade, and taking
account also of the deterioration in the fiscal position in FY82, the
possibility of realizing the original revenue target of 18% of GDP by 1986
has been seriously affected. In order to maintain current account deficits



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 20
- 69 -
at a sustainable level while providing room for a recovery of private
investment activity, Government deficits have to be brought down
substantially from the level of over 5% of GDP in FY82. Thus, on the
revenue side, the Government-s medium-term fiscal plan provides for an
increase in the revenue/GDP ratio from 13.3% in FY82 to at least 16% in
FY86. At the same time Government expenditures have to be streamlined.
To attain the revenue target, the fiscal strategy incorporates a
number of tax packages during the remaining period of the Fifth Plan so that
Government revenue will increase from the normal trend by 6, 7 and 8 billion
baht in FYs84, 85, and 86 respectively. Thus, by FY86 the total discretionary
increase in revenue will have cumulated to 21 billion baht. Specific
measures to raise revenue include further improvements in administration by
adding more taxpayers to both the personal and corporate income tax rolls.
Thus improved administration could raise about 40% of the needed 21 billion
baht in revenues. The remaining 13 billion baht will come from tax base
expansion in the personal income tax and comprehensive rationalization and
rate changes of business and excise taxes. The Government strategy would
therefore be to examine the business tax and analyze areas where tax evasion
is high and possibly change tax rates on some commodities. Since the scope
for further rate increases in FYs 83 and 84 is rather limited, the Government
strategy is to rationalize personal income exemptions and increase the tax
base by reducing the allowable standard deductions.
To be consistent with the revised revenue target and the Fifth
Plan's objective to maintain our financial stabi'lity, the overall development
expenditures for the entire plan period have been revised downward from
799.3 billion baht to 673.9 billion baht (or about 15%). This is deemed
necessary and appropriate since the revenue targets have been revised down-
ward and at the same time Government deficits are to be reduced substantially.
Also export earning shortfalls during the past few years have reduced the
scope for foreign borrowing, and pending a review of Thailand's borrowing
strategy the Government has reduced its annual public foreign borrowing
ceiling by about 14% from US$2,400 million to US$2,060 million. To bring
the investment program within the limits imposed by the available resources,
the NESDB, Government agencies and public enterprises have, with assistance
from the Bank, performed a major investment review. In the past, such
investment programming had only provided sectoral ceilings. This review has
for the first time developed an overall domestic and foreign resource
picture, integrating central and local government and state enterprise
investment and financing. On the expenditure side it has gone into much
greater detail, and has integrated major projects and agency programs into
the overall picture. A similar review has progressed in the area of current
expenditures.
As a major commitment under SAL I, the initial formulation of a
medium-term fiscal strategy has therefore now for the first time set the
stage for systematic improvements in the efficiency with which the resources
would be mobilized and expenditures managed. The Government would like to



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 2?'
- 70 -
treat it as a rolling three-year strategy, enabling adjustment to rapidly
changing domestic and international economic conditions while at the same
time providing a medium-term perspective.
Institutional Development
The overall program initiated under SAL I on the improvement of
planning, budgeting, accounting and performance auditing is generally on
schedule. On planning, an analysis has been made of thle problems and
procedures associated with planning at the central and provincial levels, and
in a number of areas the design of improved systems has been virtually
completed. On the basis of this work a new project proposal and appraisal
system and a three-year rolling investment system including state enterprises
have been completed :in the NESDB. Substantial progress has also been made in
the area of budgeting. For FY83 there have been substantial reductions of
budgetary controls, including adoption of a system of ministerial ceilings,
adoption of a multiyear capital development budget system, decentralization of
some provincial budgetary decision making, and relaxation of some central
budgetary controls during the execution process. Program budget documents
were prepared on a trial basis for the Ministry of Agri'culture and
Cooperatives and the Ministry of Education. Meanwhile,, a management
information center has already been established in the Bureau of the Budget
to provide basic information and improve the control and supervision of all
operations.
In accounting, the results of the work in the Comptroller General's
Department on the analysis of the present accounting system and its weaknesses
are gradually becoming available and are being reviewed. With regards to
performance auditing, by the end of 1982, standards have been developed and
operations manuals finalized by the Office of Auditor General. To begin the
work on introduction of a performance audit system, the training of trainers
was undertaken in January 1983.
The Government recognizes the need to coordinate and follow-up the
various activities under SAL and to organize the flow of information to the
policy level. Proper mechanisms have already been identified which involve
the restructuring of the SAL working group to include members from the core
and line agencies and a new joint secretariat between NESDB and the Fiscal
Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance. The planning units in both the
NESDB and the Fiscal Policy Office will also be strengthened to guide and
monitor overall SAL activities.
Industry
Our major policy objectives in this sector are to induce efficient
growth through promotion of export-oriented industries, adjustments in the
protective structure and incentive framework and application of investment
criteria. To ensure more effective coordination, an Industrial Restructuring
Committee has been established with a joint secretariat staffed by the



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 20
- 71 -
Ministry of Industry and the NESDB. Coordination with the private sector is
also being strengthened, and we have adopted ad hoc arrangements to review
and screen large projects of national importance, with the assistance of
external consultants.
(a) Export Promotion
Significant measures to promote exports have already been taken.
With the implementation of the Import Duty Drawback and Export Tax Refund
Schemes, industrial export activities are now no longer being taxed. In
addition, progress towards the promotion of exports has also been made in
other areas, such as improvement of procedures in the Customs Department,
improved Customs Department facilities and the initiation of operations of
the export development fund. Thus, all SAL I industrial export measures
have been implemented.
(b) Protective Structure
To realize our ultimate aim of achieving lower levels and greater
uniformity in effective protection we have, in February 1982, undertaken
important reductions in tariffs for foodstuffs and electrical appliances.
In October 1982, further important actions have been undertaken to modify all
tariff rates at the extreme ends so that all imports will be subject to
tariffs no higher than 60% and no lower than 5%, except in special cases.
Within this range, tariffs on several major categories were further narrowed.
A sub-sector approach is also considered essential to effective
implementation of industrial restructuring. The first sub-sector study on
electronics and electrical goods has been completed. Its recommendations have
been adopted in principle by the Cabinet, and agencies concerned have been
instructed to implement them; such implementation has already started. In
addition, the Cabinet has also endorsed the policy guidelines for passenger
car assembly. The policy decision has been made not to increase the required
local content percentage of automobiles any further.
(c) Investment Incentives
A review of the existing system of incentives was completed in
1981, followed by a Cabinet decision in August 1982 to revise the investment
incentive structure to support the major objectives of industrial restruc-
turing and to promote priority industries in the Fifth National Economic and
Social Development Plan. The Office of the BOI has prepared a draft action
plan and further details will be available by May. The Board has also
spelled out the new policy framework for investment promotion in a new BOI
announcement. Under the new policy framework, a certain degree of
automaticity is being built into the guidelines by clearly spelling out the
privileges that could be obtained from investing.



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 20
- 72 -
Energy
To reduce the demand for largely imported energy and to eliminate
underpricing of energy, we have implemented large adjustments in energy
prices. By 1982 the average power tariffs and petroleum prices had been
raised by about 120% over the average level in March 1979, and they are now
generally in line with economic costs.
The studies on energy pricing, conservation and strategy
formulation, programmed under SAL I, are for many valid reasons still in an
early stage of implementation. On the petroleum product pricing study, its
terms of reference have been consolidated with those for a natural gas
study and expanded to include the findings of the lignite pricing study; this
has led to a delay.   In order to achieve coordination with the ADB's
technical assistance program focusing on energy audits in a number of
energy-intensive industries, the study on incentives for energy conservation
has been phased so as to take advantage of the data collection in the course
of the ADB technicaL assistance. Finally, the study on energy strategy to
prepare an integrated medium-term sector strategy and to promote
coordination of sector policies and programs has also been delayed to permit
a reassessment of various earlier studies.
Agriculture
To increase productivity in agriculture, the Government has under
its structural adjustment program taken far reaching new initiatives to
improve the efficiency of land use, and it has made equally important changes
in its agriculture marketing and pricing policies to iLmprove returns and
incentives to farmers. In June 1982, the Cabinet approved a set of guidelines
on land use and landE rights policy to serve as a framework for a rationali-
zation of land utilization in Thailand. To begin the process of regularizing
land use in all encroached forest reserve areas, the Ministry of Agriculture
has also completed an implementation program for the Fifth Plan period, and a
detailed operational program for FY83 has been formulated and is being
implemented.
Many other far reaching measures were also undertaken under SAL I
to improve returns and incentives to farmers.  Rubber export taxes have
been substantially reduced. Quotas for rice and maize export as well as
minimum export prices for all commodities have been abolished. A number of
responsibilities for regulation of exports have been transferred from the
Ministry of Commerce! to the mostly private sector Board of Trade.  The burden
on rice exports has been reduced in several steps, leaLding to the current
situation where it represents no more than 10% of FOB prices. On the other
hand, at the domestic front, the rice price support program was continued,
with some improvements, the cheap rice distribution program was phased out
and a start was made on the deregulation of livestock marketing by permitting
the establishment of private slaughterhouse facilities for export.



ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 20
- 73 -
IV. SAL II: Further Elements of the Adjustment Mechanism
As explained in Section II above, in carrying out the SAL II
program, the Government must, of necessity, continue to give considerable
attention to the increasingly international orientation of the Thai economy.
Moreover, because of the difficult and uncertain conditions of the external
environment, a central concentration of the SAL II program will be on
improving the processes for planning and making more efficient uses of
resources. This will occur in three broad areas: First, in strengthening
fiscal policy formulation and execution of overall public sector institutional
management; second, in the industrial, energy and agricultural sectors, where
a more rational, equitable system of incentives and the removal of economic
impediments are needed to further stimulate and encourage new growth in the
private sector; third, the first round of studies and program development
efforts are to be completed, thus forming the basis for further structural
adjustment activities for the next two years of the Fifth Plan. Finally, a
new and more effective organizational mechanism will be established to guide
and evaluate the structural adjustment process itself.
Public Sector Management
(a) Fiscal Strategy
Under SAL II the Government will continue to develop and implement
an integrated fiscal strategy for the entire public sector for the remainder
of the Fifth Plan. On the revenue side, this will cover a strengthening of
the link, by revenue source, between the new revenue targets, and the tax
policy and tax administration changes on which they are predicated. On the
expenditure side, the methods to project central government outlays will be
improved. Medium-term projections will be made for the financial operations
of public enterprises. Those, as well as the projections for extra-budgetary
funds and for local government will then be integrated into an overall
financial strategy for the entire public sector. With IMF assistance, we
will also develop a program for broadening and intensifying the role of the
Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance as a central fiscal planning
unit.
Medium-term Fiscal Reform. Actions which we intend to
undertake, in the context of our medium-term fiscal reform program, include:
(i) the implementation of a phased program for simplification of
business taxes and excise duties;
(ii) the enactment of selected revisions of the revenue code and
customs laws, to enhance their scope and impact;
(iii) the enactment of the new consolidated excise tax law;



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 20
- 74 -
(iv)  the initiation of a study on the feasibility of introducing
value-added taxation on selected items;
(v)  the development of an action program to strengthen local finances by
bringing up-to-date land housing assessment values, local fines
and fee structures, and improve coordination between the Interior
and Finance Ministries on local taxes; and
(vi)  an analysis of the operation and effectiveness of the various
extrabudgetary funds, and the implementation of appropriate
recommendations.
(c).      Tax Administration.  We will further enhance the effectiveness of
the Revenue Department by computerizing its operations and by further
decentralization on the basis of evaluation of experience gained from area
offices already established. In the Customs Department, actions will be
taken to rationalize import/export forms and documents to eliminate
unnecessary papers and to decentralize as well as reorganize this Department
to facilitate trade flows.  Based on IMF proposals and following the
enactment of the new excise laws, the Excise Department will also be
reorganized during 1983, to eliminate overlaps in several departments and
enhance efficiency. Over the medium term, we expect aLll these actions to make
significant contributions to our revenue mobilization effort. Of course, the
tightening of the tax net may increase attempts at evaLsion, especially if the
tax system is perceived to be unfair. This has prompted the Government to
establish, in October 1982, a high level Committee for Tax Rulings to help
solve assessment and tax liability problems and to formulate a tax arrears
policy. Another important step in tax administration will be the creation
of a Tax Training Institute for tax, excise and customs specialists.
(d).      State Enterprises (SEs).  With regard to commercially-oriented
public enterprises, the Government-s policy, as announced by the Prime
Minister, is that no new public enterprises competing with the private sector
will be set up in future, and that all commercially-oriented public
enterprises will have to stand on their own feet or be liquidated. In 1983,
the Government will formulate an action program to implement this policy.
With regard to public utilities, the Government will iin 1983 determine which
public utilities it will be willing to assist financially, and to what
extent.  All other public enterprises will, by the end of the Fifth Plan,
have to earn appropriate returns on assets.
In the meantime, however, it is noted that some SEs are incurring
considerable losses   The Government therefore intends to assess and project
forward the overall magnitude of these losses and will develop, with Bank
assistance, a firm medium-term plan to reduce these losses gradually over
the period 1983-86 as part of the overall financial strategy. To attain
this objective, the government is not only relying on rate increases, but it
is also making a determined effort to increase the efficiency of SEs. In
this area the new policy directions are that:



ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 20
- 75 -
(i)   each major SE will be subjected to a comprehensive program of
efficiency-enhancing measures;
(ii)   salary structures will be reviewed to attract
capable managers;
(iii)   technical efficiency will be improved by better
maintenance, modernization of accounting and billing
systems; and
(iv)   operations will be decentralized and management by objectives
(including program budgeting) introduced.
Also in many enterprises more dynamic, business-minded Chief Executives and
Board Members have already been brought in to spearhead basic changes and to
increase efficiency both at the top and middle management levels. While these
policy directives are already being implemented on an ad hoc basis, a study
will be initiated to introduce them on a more systematic and permanent basis,
particularly in the major enterprises. In summary, therefore, with regard to
state enterprises, we intend to introduce new mechanisms to ensure, firstly,
that SE activities and investment decisions are made consistent with national
economic policy (as indicated under fiscal strategy above) and, secondly, that
SE management practices are improved.
(e) Foreign Debt
Specific actions which the Government intends to take to improve
the management of foreign debt include:
(i)   The formulation of a three-year rolling plan for planning,
evaluation and monitoring of the Government's external borrowing
program, in conjunction with the formulation of the three-year
fiscal strategy discussed under (a) above;
(ii)   an improvement in the external debt data base and
external debt analysis; and
(iii)   improvement in the coordinating mechanism for external
resources mobilization which has been put into operation
by the Committee on External Debt Policy in June, 1982.
Institutional Development
Major activities were initiated under SAL I to foster improved
management of public programs and resources. A team of consultants was
engaged to assist in implementing coordinated system improvements in
planning, budgeting, accounting and performance auditing. This effort will
continue under SAL II with the design and implementation of new project
proposal and rolling investment systems, and with monitoring and evaluation
systems to meet the needs of central core and line agencies. A program



ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 20
- 76 -
budget system has been designed and will be implemented in fiscal year 1984,
and this will be linked with the planning systems.
A comprehensive report on necessary changes in the Governmental
accounting system will be completed in 1983. Recommendations have also been
made for improvement in systems for provincial financial reporting; these are
being implemented. New procedures and standards for performance auditing
have been designed by the Office of the Auditor General and a study on the
introduction of comprehensive auditing will be undertaken. Staff training
programs in all of these central management functions will be formulated
during 1983.
Under SAL II, a broad study will be undertaken on the organization,
compensation and personnel administration of the civil service. The study
will also identify weaknesses of the governmental machinery in departmental
reorganization procedures and processes.
The NESDB has initiated a reorganization study which, inter alia,
will call for a realignment of several of its functions. In the meantime, a
study of the staffing needs and arrangements for NESDB and of selected
ministerial planning units has begun. In the area of policy analysis and
formulation, the Government encountered difficulties in establishing an
independent research/development institute. As an alternative mechanism
the Government has decided to enhance the NESDB-s capacity to coordinate and
manage the conduct of this important activity. Under the new approach,
outside research institutes and universities would be contracted to do the
actual studies, while NESDB would provide the Plan perspective, priorities
and possibly, funding. The setting up of a preinvestment fund in NESDB would
complement this objective.
Reform Process in Major Sectors
Industry
In major sectors, much of the activity will follow the broad
objectives of the Fifth Plan, which have also been the chief focus of the
steps already taken under SAL I. In the industry sector these include the
stimulation of efficient growth through promotion of export oriented
industries relative to import substitution, adjustme!nts in the protective
structure and incentive framework, and application of economic investment
criteria for large-scale industrial projects.
In the area of export promotion, we will continue to improve the
incentive mechanisms, reduce the bias against exporting vis-a-vis import
substitution, and establish export processing zones in industrial estates.
Given the financial needs of new exporters especially of non-traditional
manufactured items, the Government also intends to explore the feasibility
of export credit and guarantee schemes.



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 20
- 77 -
In the area of protective reform, the policy objective remains an
overall reduction and greater uniformity of effective protection, through
general and/or subsectoral actions. With regard to the latter we are also
implementing a program of restructuring feasibility studies, per subsector.
We have finalized arrangements with UNIDO to carry on this task further.
The study on the automotive sub-sector has been initiated, and will be
followed by similar studies concerning the chemical, plastic products and
textile industries in 1983. We have decided to expand the scope of these
studies to include the nature and extent of incentives to be granted by the
BOI. As the number of subsector studies cumulates and covers a rising
proportion of the total industrial sector, it will increasingly become
possible to initiate detailed programs for strengthening the industrial
structure and competitive position, through further rationalization of
incentives as well as more direct support. In the meantime, the Government
will begin implementation of appropriate non-tariff reform policies in the
sub-sectors under review.
Thus, the Government's policy to improve the efficiency of the
industrial structure is now well entrenched, and in fact has gained
considerable momentum over the past year. We are eager to maintain this
momentum, and push forward with this task within the constraints that the Thai
economy is facing. In that context it needs to be recognized that it may be
necessary, given the international economic situation, to impose temporary
tariff increases to ward off temporary changes in competitive position, and/or
to serve other priority policy objectives of the Government. Specifically,
for FY83, in the light of deteriorating external conditions and a widening
budgetary deficit, the Government has imposed a one-year import duty surcharge
of 10% of existing duties. Also the Ministry of Finance has been authorized
to temporarily increase export duties. It is the Government's firm intention,
however, not to allow these temporary interventions to become permanent.
With regard to investment incentives, as indicated before, an
action plan for the reform of the activities of the Board of Investment
is presently being worked out in greater detail. The implementation of
these reforms has started. In parallel, the BOI and Ministry of Finanace
are now initiating a study on the fiscal and investment consequences of the
revised investment promotion structure.
Given Thailand's increasing resource constraints, it has become
increasingly important to ensure that large-scale projects are economically
viable. Thus, the Government has set out to ensure that a decision to proceed
with large-scale projects will always be contingent upon a thorough review.
Since the NESDB, BOI and the Ministry of Industry are not yet in a position to
undertake comprehensive economic and technical evaluations, ad hoc
arrangements have been put in place to undertake this task. Sometimes the
Bank or IFC have been assisting in the evaluations. The NESDB has recently
short-listed a number of consulting firms and invited proposals for in-depth
technical and economic reviews of the remaining large industrial projects. In
addition a study is being undertaken which will make recommendations on the



ANNEX IV
Page 13 of
- 78 -
ways in which NESDB's capacity to undertake preliminary evaluations of
proposed major investments can be strengthened.
Energy
Under SAL II, we will, after the studies on energy pricing, conser-
vation and strategy formulation become available around September 1983,
identify appropriate actions and begin to implement them.
In addition, we will:
(i)  take appropriate steps to gradually moderate the present
large price differential between gasoline and diesel fuel
prices;
(ii)  formulate policies and implement measures to reduce energy
consumption directly, as well as to rationa:Lize the incentive
structure in major end-user sectors; and
(iii)  strengthen the ability of NEA to prepare, maintain and update
the mediumn-term energy strategy.
We will further the efficiency of energy use in the industry and
transport sectors. For the industrial sector we have established an energy
conservation center of Thailand (ECCT) which has already been providing
limited technical and technology assistance to industries for energy
conservation. Private sector participation in this effort is also envisaged.
To reduce ECCT's start-up period and to make it operationally effective,
we hope that the Bank would be prepared to provide technical and financial
support. In the transport sector, which consumes the largest share of
petroleum supply, two major studies on energy policies and on road user
taxation have been completed. We will prepare an action program to implement
appropriate recommendations on transport energy conservation, initially in the
roads subsector, and we will proceed to finalize the program and implement it.
Agriculture
In the agriculture sector also, much of the activity under SAL II
will be a continuation and expansion of policies and programs begun under
SAL I. In the area of land use policy, for example, the Government will
continue its program for issuance of "right-to-farm" (STK) certificates
in forest reserve areas suitable for cultivation. While the STK certificates
are at the present time legally limited to 15 rai per family, landholdings
of up to 50 rai will be recognized by the granting of indefinite leases
(under conditions similar to those of the STKs) for up to 35 rai over and
above the 15 rai covered by the STK certificates. There will be no
recognition of land rights for areas in excess of 50 rai per family occupy-
ing forest reserves. During implementation of the land reclassification



ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 20
- 79 -
program in each forest reserve area, the Government will ascertain the
extent and location of excess land in holdings over 50 rai. It will also
ascertain encroachment in areas determined to be unsuitable for sustained
yield agriculture.
The Government is also considering the feasibility of establish-
ing a Land Bank which would enable transfer of land covered by STKs and leases
and thereby improve access to credit by STK certificate holders; the Land Bank
would also function as the financial arm of the Government's land tenure and
land reform policies. A study of the feasibility and desirability of
establishing such a Land Bank will be carried out under the supervision of
National Rural Development Committee's Land Policy Subcommittee.
In agricultural marketing and pricing policy, the main focus will
continue to be on ways to improve cash returns and production incentives to
farmers. It is the Government's intention not to increase the taxation of
agricultural exports beyond present levels. The Rice Policy Committee will
conduct an evaluation of the 1982/83 rice price support program and propose
measures to improve it, consistent with the objectives of price stabilization
and providing adequate returns to farmers. A new committee has been
established to review the whole marketing infrastructure and to develop an
agricultural trade information system.
In the new SAL area of water resource development and management
the main focus will be on formulating a more comprehensive system for
development planning, for coordinating the work of the agencies involved in
water resource utilization and for resolving the conflicts between alternative
water uses, in the light of national social and economic priorities. The
initial stages of this approach will include studies of organizational, legal,
development potential and information needs. In addition staff and
institutional support for water resource development and management will be
strengthened.
The Structural Adjustment Evaluation and Implementation Mechanism
It has become increasingly evident that structural adjustment is a
long-term process - one that requires continuing coordination and direction at
both a policy and operating level. The broad approach to structural
adjustment being taken in Thailand has many interrelated facets, and for them
to achieve their intended results will require continuing oversight and
evaluation. Therefore, in addition to the high level policy committee
chaired by the Prime Minister, the present SAL working group will be expanded
to include all the concerned ministries and central core agencies, with
procedures established to ensure continuous monitoring and evaluation of the
many diverse programs and activities. To assist in this activity a small
joint staff from NESDB and the Ministry of Finance will be assigned to
collect information, prepare reports and serve as the overall secretariat to
the policy committee and the expanded working group. The secretariat will
monitor regularly the progress of implementing the SALs and evaluate the



ANNEX IV
Page 15of 20
- 80 -
impact of SALs I and II, reporting the results to both the policy committee
and the Bank.
This description of the SAL II components demonstrates the broad
scope of the structural adjustment process. It also conveys, we believe, the
reality that this is a long-term, continuing effort to which the Government is
strongly committed. Schedules and responsibilities for the various program
components discussed above are given in the Annex to this Letter of
Development Policy. On behalf of the Royal Thai Govetrnment I would like to
ask you hereby to support our efforts by extending a second Structural
Adjustment Loan to Thailand at the earliest possible date.
With best regards,
Yoursi sincerely,
/s/ Sommai Hoontrakool
Minister of Finance



ANNEX IV
- 81 -                                 Page 16 of 20
Letter of Development Policy: Annex
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy area                          Activity                           Timetable        Agency-Y
Overall Fiscal   PF: Major policies for central government revenue    Done 1/83    MOF/NESDB/BOB
Strategy         and expenditures for Plan period
PD: Aggregative, consolidated public sector finan-   Complete        MOF/NESDB/BOB
cing including SEs and Extra-Budgetary Funds           9/83
PD: To broaden fiscal planning function of Fiscal    Complete            MOF
Policy Office                                         ,9/83
Tax strategy     PF: Initial medium-term revenue policies and            Done 1/83         MOF
necessary measures
PD: Further elaboration of revenue strategy, by        Complete          MOF
major tax, during Plan period                           9/83
Tax measures     Action: Implementation FY83 tax package                 Done 10/82        MOF
Action: Further enactment of selected tax               Complete         MOF
measures                                                9/83
Action: Enactment of new consolidated excise tax        Complete         MOF
and of selected revisions in revenue code and          12/83
customs laws
Action: Simplification of business tax and excise    Complete            MOF
duties                                                  12/83
Study: To determine suitability of principles          Start 10/83       MOF
of VAT on selected items
Tax admini-      Action: Establishment of Committee for Tax              Done 10/82        MOF
stration         Rulings
Action: (i) Revenue Dept.: Further implementation    Ongoing             MOP
of computerization and decentralization; (ii) Cus-   1983
toms Dept.: reorganization and decentralization;
(iii) Excise Dept.: reorganization
PD: To create Training Institute for tax               Complete          MOF
officials                                              12/83
Local taxation   PD: To review and update real estate valuation           Complete         MOF
and local fees, and improve coordination between       12/83
MOF and Ministry of Interior
Expenditure      PF: Further elaboration and reconciliation of           Complete      MOF/NESDB/BOB
Policy            recurrent expenditure policies                           4/83
PD:  Further elaboration of expenditure strategy       Complete      MOF/NESDB/BOB
for Plan period and three-year rolling investment    9/83
and foreign borrowing program
a/ PF = Policy Formulation
PD = Program Development
b/  ATI = Association of Thai Industrialists             MOC - Ministry of Commerce
BOB = Bureau of Budget                               TOF = Ministry of Finance
BOT = Bank of Thailand                              OAE = Office of Agricultural Economics
DBE = Department of Business Economics              RFD = Royal Forestry Department
LDD = Land Development Department                   RTG   Royal Thai Government
MOAC = Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives   SE = State Enterprise



ANNEX IV
-82 -                                  Page 17 of 20
Letter of Development Policy: Annex
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy area                           Activity                          Timetable        Agency
State enter-    PF: Program to achieve financial viability or            Complete      MOF/NESDB/BOB
prises (SEs)    liquidat:Lon of commercially oriented state              12/83
enterprises
PF: Identification of public utilities which may        Complete      MOF/NESDB/BOB
receive RTG financial assistance                        12/83
PD: Deve:Lopment of concrete program for elimina-       Complete
-tion of unwarranted SE losses over medium term          7/83
Action: Implementation of program to reduce             During 83    MOF/NESDB/BOB
losses through improved efficiency and management                     Ministries, SEs
and rate increases
Study: Anaalysis of institutional mechanisms to         Complete      MOF/NESDB/BOB
strengthen efficiency of SEs                            12/83
Extrabudget-    Study: Review of individual funds                        During 83          MOF
ary funds       Action: Implementation of appropriate recommenda-    During 83/84           MOF
tions
External debt   Action: Establishment of joint processing sub-           Done 10/82   MOF/BOT/NTPSDB
committee on external resources
PD: Program to improve external data base and           Complete      MOF/BOT/NESDB
analysis                                                3/83
Action: Implementation of scheduled improvement         Complete      MOF/BOT/NESDB
in external debt data and analysis                      12/83
PD: To improve interagency procedures for               Complete      MOF/BOT/NESDB
external resource mobilization and use, taking          5/83
account of differences in concessionality
Institutional
Development
Planning         Action: Design of project appraisal and invest--        Done 1/83          NESDB
ment planning
Action: Implementation of project appraisal and         Complete          NESDB
investment planning systems                             12/83
PD: Program to improve monitoring and evaluation        Complete          NESDB
system                                                  4/83
Action: Selected application of improved                Complete           NESDB
monitoring and evaluation system                        12/83
PD: Program for NESDB reorganization                    Complete          NESDB
4/83
Study: NESDB staffing needs                             Complete          NESDB
7/83
PD: NESDB staffing improvement                          Complete           NESDB
10/83
Study: Staffing needs of selected ministerial           6-12/83       NESDB/Respec-
planning units                                                        tive Ministries



ANNEX IV
- 83 -                                Page 18 of 20
Letter of Development Policy: Annex
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy area                          Activity                         Timetable        Agency
Budgeting       Action: Introduction of program budgeting               For FY84         BOB
budget
PD: Staff training on program budgeting                Complete          BOB
3/83
Action: Initiation of staff training                   Start 7/83        BOB
Action: Improvement of monitoring and evaluation       Complete          BOB
system for budget implementation                       12/83
Accounting      Action: Implementation of recommendations of            3-9/83           MOF
report on provincial finances
Study: Master report on central government             Complete and     MOF
accounting system                                      review sec-
tions during 83
Performance     Action: Completion of operational manual on per-        Done 12/82     Auditor Gen.
auditing        formance auditing standards
Action: Implementation of new performance audit        4-7/83         Auditor Gen.
system
Action: Staff training on performance audit            Initiated      Auditor Gen.
1/83
Study: Feasibility of comprehensive audit system       Finalize       Auditor Gen.
to improve links between Auditor General and           TORs 7/83
various internal audit agencies
Civil           Study: Civil Service organization, compensation,        7/83-1/84     Civil Service
set-,ice        administration and reorganization procedures                              Comm.
Policy          PD: To identify new approach to conduct policy          Complete         NESDB
Formulation     analysis and formulation                                6/83
PD:     To establish a preinvestment fund to           12/83             NESDB
finance policy and sectoral studies
Implementa-     PD: To improve SAL implementation                      Complete        NESDB/MOF
tion of SAL                                                             4/83
Action: Implementation of above program                Complete       NESDB/MOF
Industry                                                               9/83
Protective      Action: Thailand's membershin in G.ATT                  Effective 11/82    RTG
structure       Action: Freeze on domestic content in automobile       Done 10/82          MOF
assembly
Study: Automobile subsector study                      Started 10/82  MOI/NESDB



ANNEX IV
- 84 -                                 Page 19 of 20
Letter of Development Policy: Annex
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy area                           Activity                          Timetable        Agency
Action: Implementation of first phase of restruc--   Ongoing 82-83         MOF
turing in electrical goods subsector
Action: Further progress toward greater uniformity   During 1983           MOF
of effective protection through general and/or
subsectoral tariff reforms
Studies: Chemical and textile subsectors (inclu-        During 1983        MOI
ding BOI incentives)
Investment      PD: BOI Action Program (Phase. I)                        Done 1/83          BOI
incentives       PD: BOI Ac:tion Program (Phase II)                      Complete           BOI
5/83
Action: Implementation of BOI Action Program            Ongoing 83         BOI
Study: Fiscal and other implications of investment   Start 6/83          BOI/MOF
incentives
Export pro-     Actions: Establishment of Export Council; up-            Ongoing 82-83   MOC/MOF
motion           grading of Export Services; establishment of
Export Processing Zones
Studies: Feasibility of export credit and               Complete         MOF/BOT
guarantee schemes                                       10/83
Large-scale      Studies: Consultants to evaluate remaining large-    Complete             NESDB
projects         scale projects, and to strengthen NESDB's in-           12/83
house capability to do so
Energy
Pricing,         Studies: Expanded energy pricing studies, inte-         3-10/83            MOF
taxation         gration of lignite pricing study
PD: Action Program to implement recommendations         Complete           MOF
of energy pricing studies                               12/83
Energy          Action: National Energy Conservation Center, with    Institute             NEA/ATI
Efficiency       public/private sector collaboration                     6/83
Study: Industry energy conservation study, in           5-9/83             NEA
coordination with ADB
PD: Action Program for energy conservation study        Complete           NEA
12/83
PD: Action Program for energy conservation in           Draft done 1/83,  Min. Com-
road transport                                          finalize 4/83      munications
Action: Implementation of program for energy con--    During 83            Min. Com-
servation in road transport                                                munications



ANNEX IV
- 85-                                   Page 20 of 20
Letter of Development Policy: Annex
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy area                           Activity                         Timetable        Agency
Energy           Study: Local consultants engaged to prepare            Done 1/83          NEA
Strategy        data base
Study: International consultants to perform            4-9/83             NEA
strategy study
PD: Action Program to improve sector planning           Complete          NEA
and policy coordination                                12/83
Agriculture
Land use        Action: Implementation of FY83 program for land         Ongoing 83        RFD/LDD
policy          reclassification and "right to farm" certificates
Study: Desirability and feasibility of Land Bank       3-12/83           NESDB
PD: Inventories of excess land in holdings over        Throughout im-   RFD/LDD
50 rai and of encroached forests unsuitable for        plementation of
agriculture                                            land reclassifi-
cation program
Marketing and   Study: To improve fertilizer and stimulate its use   1-11/83              OAE(MOAC)
pricing          Studies: To improve marketing information and          Ongoing 83        DBE(MOC)
infrastructure
Study: To evaluate rice price policy and improve       5-8/83              RTG
its effectiveness
Water resource  PD: Approach and program of studies                     Done 1/83          NESDB
management       Studies: To improve water resource development          3-12/83           NESDB
and management, investigate legal issues and
strengthen information systems



- 86 -
TRAILAND                                 ANNEX V
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAiN
Thailand: Use of IMF Resources, 1976-1991
(In millions of SDRs)
Gross credit drawings                                                          Undrawn
Compensa-  Buffer               Trust                                   Net      balance
tory     stock    Stand-    fund           /a   Repay-         /c  credit/d  of agreed
drawings  drawings    by    borrowing  Total  ments /b  Charges  drawings  stand-by
(1)       (2)       (3)      (4)        (5)      (6)        (7)      (8)        (9)
1976     67.0                                     67.0                0.6      67.0
1977                                  14.3        14.3                1.5        --
1978     68.8                         41.2       110.0                4.'9     68.8        45.3
1979                          45.3    40.6.       85.9                8.3      37.0
1980                                  34.3"       34.3    16.8        9.4     -16.8
1981    186.0               345.0        .5      531.5    67.4      15X6.    463.6        469.5
1982               17.0       47.4                64.4    34.4      45.0       30.0       224.1
1983               20.0     224.1                244.1    38.9      57.7      208.9
1984                                                       70.1      73.8     -57.3
1985                                                      242.6     70.7    -220.6
1986                                                      260.4     53.9    -234.3
1987                                                      177.9     37.7    -151.8
1988                                                      122.2     23.5      -99.9
1989                                                       60.6     11.8      -47.3
1990                                                       38.0       5.0     -33.9
1991                                                        0.5       0.6        --
Ia Use of Fund Credit (regular and borrowed stand-by drawings, and compensatory facility
and buffer stock facility drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
/b Repayments through Repurchase Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing. (5) - (6), cumulative
difference between total purchases and repayments in period 1976-1991 is due to a reduction in
repurchase commitments as a result of the quota payment of SDR 21.6 million in 1980.
/c Interest and service charges on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
Id Gross credit drawings less repayments through Repurchases (excluding Trust Fund).



lBRD 13565 R2
100                                           ~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~04'  FEBRUARY 19 80
B UP 0. A  /                                                          ~~~THAILAND
20'                                          AOVER 20,0O0 BAHAT20
6, 000- 8,000 BAt-AY
0                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,000 - 6000 EAH-AT
U'   "     1.  ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~4,000 OR LESS EAHAT
a"                    -.  -  ~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
to.   '                                          ------ ~~~~~~~~~~SUE-REGION BOUNDARIES
LAO                        ~~~~~~~CHANGWAT (PROVINCIAL) BOUNDARIES
P EOP L E'S-   REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
-asptrr               -    DEM   REP
L   J1l5;Pr,0,ir        /                                             -
S   I   /  --'  .r'            'tUt~~~~~~~~~~7o    >> Q\~~~
-'-N~~~ ~ ~~~ 7
'§  >-4'<7     /-\4       OLin      2~~~~~Ek                .. E
7-z
SE"                -t~~~~~            ,            I         /      ~ ~ ~ ~ '    o>--A /~., 
(                  fl-jORsLt            -                          0'~~~
&Ys~o Ke          1
/  -NI                  r'        r ~ ~~~               ~~~ O~-~ s.
552~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
,4-g o       aTssarah-u"Qy   %      A        Nes s'
'S     t,,,IrssObr,t     OW s, h,st,s             A -N.ft
___U"-              rt~ ---5       -d '1  h
p~ ~~~~tsrsoo                                '-----  >-         " '
-  -             Ofayssq >C5t5t55550rSiji., -
--                                    OEMQCVA'IC KAMPUC~~~HBAIL
S/UH   4                                                                                   -x~~~ _  ---
W'~~~~~~~~~                                                           A'5Y'ANU 6NE   



