DOCU MENTS     LOAN NUMBER 2256 TH
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                d, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2256 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             7, 1983, between KINGDOM
OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 7,
1983, from the Borrower (hereinafter called the Letter of
Development Policy) describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment in the
Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of that program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in the financing of essential imports and other activities
associated with the execution of such program; and
(B) on the basis of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in
support of such program to provide assistance to the Borrower by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept a.. the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loa. and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"The term Project means the imports and other
activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-2-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Baht" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975);
(c) "Bank of Thailand" means the central bank of the King-
dom of Thailand established and operating pursuant to the Bank of
Thailand Act, B.E. 2485 (1942), as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred  seventy-five  million   five  hundred  thousand   dollars
($175,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of the goods which may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule and in respect of the fee specified in Section 2.05
(a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿引


﻿4
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June I and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section  2.10.  (a) Bank    of  Thailand  is  designated   as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.       i
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby delegates to Bank of Thailand the authority for
the coordination and collection of relevant documentation, and
the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the Loan; such
withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
grouped so that the proceeds of the Loan shall be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000
equivalent,
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section   3.01.  The   Borrower  undertakes   that   adequate
provision will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indcmnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either. party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program for structural


﻿-5-
adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement. Prior
to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out said program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)  The first such exchange of views shall take place not
later than October 31, 1983 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank may otherwise agree.
Section 3.03. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and secur-
ing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of thp Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such


﻿-6-
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Upon the award of any contract, costing the
equivalent of $7,500,000 or more, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that an event has
occurred which shall make ', improbable that the program set
forth in the Letter of Deve.opment Policy, or a significant part
thereof, shall be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date       01A    3 , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 1 .0 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINANCE                             82823-TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                    *"k
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   All goods imported into the Kingdom of Thailand may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, except that no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing institution
or any other agency shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(b) expenditures for goods intended      for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(c) without limitation to the foregoing paragraph        (b),
expenditures for items included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group          Sub-group         Description of Items
112               -             Alcoholic beverages
121               -             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122               -             Tobacco, manufactured
667               -             Pearls, precious and semi-              9
precious stones, unworked
or worked
668                             Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿-9-
Group          Sub-group         Description of Items
718             718.7           Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897             897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver
or binum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' ware (in-
cluding set gems)
971.0           Gold, non-monetary (exclud-
ing gold ores and concen-
trates)
(d) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(e) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(f) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the  Borrower   on  goods,   or  on   the   importation,
procurement or supply thereof;
(g) expenditures for goods procured under contracts or
purchase orders costing less than $50,000 equivalent
each; and
(h) expenditures for items included in any single SITC
group or sub-group which exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of $50,000,000.
2.   If the Bank    shall have reasonably    determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan, as in the
Bank's  reasonable   opinion,  represents   the  amount  of   such
expenditures  which   would  otherwise  have  been   eligible  for
financitIS out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1988
through   June 1, 2003                     5,850,000
*    The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 11 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  0.15
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  0.30
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  0.55
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  0.80
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  0.90
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  1.00


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule,
contracts for the procurement of goods shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community shall be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for subpara-
graph (a) of the following:


﻿- 13 -
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the
following:
"Customs duties and import taxes shall be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of
goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragarph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of price quotations available from organized interna-
tional commodity markets.
3.   Goods procured under a contract or purchase order estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $7,500,000 each shall be
procured on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragaph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall fur-
nish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect thereof, any relevant documentation the Bank may rea-
sonably request to support withdrawal applications thereunder.
e.    The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or documentation received, as the case may be, was not con-
sistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  IfL     day of AA4%4, 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


