Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL U'SE ONlI
/    g/*\                                              Report No. 8965-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 15, 1991
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 = W 710
(February 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
AD        - Administration Division (KBSC)
CNB       -  Citizens National Bank
IBK       -  Industrial Bank of Korea
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
KAIST     -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KBSC      -  Korea Basic Science Center
KDB       -  Korea Development Bank
KIET      -  Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KIST      -  Korea Institute of Science and Technology
KLB       -  Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KOSEF     -  Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
KSRI      -  Korea Standards Research Institute
KTDC      -  Korea Technology Development Corporation
LPIU      -  Loan Project Implementation Unit
MOST      - Ministry of Science and Technology
MTI       - Ministry of Trade and Industry
NIRI      -  National Industrial Research Institute
O&M       -  Operations and Maintenance
OSROK     -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PITC      -  Provincial Industrial Training Center
PPAR      -  Project Performance Audit Report
R&D       -  Research and Development
S&T       -  Science and Technology
SMI       -  Small and Medium Industry
SMIB      -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC     -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF     -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
TDR       -  Technology Development Reserve



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY'
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pagte No
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       iii
I.   INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPI-ENT IN KOREA . . . . . . .1
A.    Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
B.  Research and Development Infrastructure  . . . . . . .         2
C.  The Development of R&D Personnel . . . . . . . . . . .         4
D.  Policies for Promoting Research and Development  . . .         6
E.  Project Institutions ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
F. Bank's Role in Technology Development and Skills
Advancement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
II.   THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
A.  Origin of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
B.  Project Rationale  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
C.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . .         18
A.  Costs  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  18
B.  Financing  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . .        21
D.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        25
E. Impact on Women .25
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .25
A. Benefits .25
B. Risks .25
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .         26
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during February-March 1990 and an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. W.E. Rees (mission leader), S.Z. Sung and V.G. Desa (consultants),
which visited Korea during June 1990. Peer reviewers were Messrs. E.
Thulstrup (ASTPH) and R. Ellis (EMTPH). The documents were reviewed by
Messrs. Bradley 0. Babson, Chief, AS2PH, and Gautam S. Kaji, Director, AS2.
This document has a restricted distributiona nd mat he used bt recipiients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed %ithout World Bank authorization



^ ii -
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1   Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . .        19
3.2   Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  .        19
3.3   Financing Plan . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
3.4   Project Expenditure by Procurement Category  . . . . .       23
ANNEXES
l.    Organization Chart - Ministry of Science and Technology
2.    Organization Chart - Korea Institute of Science and
Technology
3.    Organization Chart - Korea Basic Science Center
4.    Organization Chart - National Industrial Research Institute
5.    Detailed Project Costs
6.    Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
7.    Implementation Schedule
8.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP    IBRD 22679



- iii -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower           : Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries      : Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST)
Korea Bas-ic Science Center: (KSC)
National Institute of Industrial Research (NIRI)
Amount               US$60.0 million equivalent
Terms                Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description        The broad aim of the project is to reinforce Government's
priority for technology-intensive industrial development
by strengthening industrial R&D and basic research capac-
ity and enhancing the application of industrial stsndards
to raise the quality of products. The project would
finance specialized equipment (base cost, US$60.0 mil-
lion) and complementary inputs comprising facilities to
house some of the equipment (US$6.5 million), and the
costs of installation, consumables and O&M expenditures
related to the equipment (US$16.5 million) for three
national institutions which play important roles in
Korea's industrial/technological development -- KIST,
KBSC and NIRI. The project would: (a) improve the qual-
ity of research programs in KIST to enhance its ability
to assist industry in developing advanced technologies;
(b) improve opportunities for joint research activities
in the basic sciences through strengthening common
research facilities at KBSC; and (c) enhance the develop-
ment and application of industrial standards through
strengthening NIRI.
Benefits and Risks:  The strengthening of KIST's research capacity would
improve its ability to support industry in developing
advanced technologies thereby reinforcing technology
development as the engine of growth in the Korean
economy. Opportunities for joint research efforts in
basic sciences would be enhanced through the
strengthening of KBSC. This in turn would lead to
improved research coordination between institutions and a
more efficient utilization of resources for basic
research. The strengthening of NIRI would lead to the
development and application of more rigorous industrial
standards which would contribute to raising the quality
of industrial products. There are no major risks
associated with the project.



iv
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
--      (US$ million)------
Korea Institute of Science and
Technology                                4.0        15.4        19.4
Korea Basic Science Center                   6.6        16.2        22.8
National Industrial Research
Institute                                  9.4        31.4        40.8
Baseline Cost                               20.0        63.0        83.0
Contingencies
Physical                                   1.0         3.1         4.1
Price increase                             1.7         3.4         5.1
Subtotal                                2.7         6.5         9.2
Total Project Cost /a                         22.7        69.5        92.2
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign       Total
----(US$ million)-------
Government                                  22.7         9.5        32.2
IBRD                                           -        60.0        60.0
Total                                    22.7        69.5        92.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1992   1993   1994   1995
Bank FY
Annual                                     6.0   36.0    17.0   1.0
Cumulative                                 6.0   42.0    59.0  60.0
la Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$5.1 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 22679



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
1. INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1       Inauguration of the First Five Year Plan in 1962 marked the beginn-
ing of Korea's rapid industrialization. At that stage, per capita GNP was
less than US$100 and primary industries accounted for 65Z of total employment
with only about 7Z employed in manufacturing and mining. The initial thrust
towards industrialization was built upon the development of labor-intensive
light industries (textiles, footwear, apparel, plywood) aimed at import
replacement and the development of export capacity. At the same time,
increased emphasis was given to developing basic industrial infrastructure
through-investments in electric power generation, transportation and
communications and in the production of basic industrial goods (cement,
fertilizers, refined oils) that were imported previously. Towards the end of
the 1960s, labor-intensive export industries such as consumer electronics and
synthetic textiles were well-established.
1.2       The 1970s saw a shift in industrial strategy towards the rapid
development of capital-intensive heavy and chemical industries - machinery,
shipbuilding, iron and steel, non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals. This
stage moved industry beyond the simple assembly of products towards the import
and adaptation of more complex production technologies. The 1980s saw a
further shift towards knowledge-intensive high technology industries (preci-
sion machines, fine chemicals, biotechnology, industrial electronics) as Korea
sought to maintain its momentum in high value-added industrial production and
preserve its competitiveness in export markets.
1.3       In the earlier stages of industrialization, Korea focussed on the
assimilation and improvement of imported technology. But as industry has
become more technology-intensive, there has been an increasing need to develop
the local capacity for technological innovation thereby reducing reliance on
imported technology. This requires an increasing commitment to the basic
research programs which underlie technological innovation. It also requires
the capacity to undertake research in state-of-the-art fields such as micro-
electronics, new materials, biotechnology etc. Such research focusses on
topics which may be beyond the capacity of the private sector for reasons of
affordability andlor lack of advanced facilities and qualified researchers.
However, the research benefits private enterprises with their capacity to
further refine the results through applied and developmental research.
Enhanced research leads to more advanced products and this requires more
rigorous standards of quality. Thus Korea has placed increasing emphasis on
refining measurement standards and developing a national system of calibra-
tion, both of which are fundamental to establishing rigorous quality
standards.



2 -
1.4       Underlying the restructuring of Korean industry towards high
technology-intensive production have been three major developments--the rapid
growth of.an industrial research and development (R&D) infrastructure, the
expansion of training of scientists and engineers in the universities and the
development of a framework of policies and incentives to encourage the private
sector to expand R&D activities. Taken together, these developments form an
R&D strategy which has been the underpinning of Korea's spectacular achieve-
ments in rapid industrialization. The strategy has resulted in an R&D system
which reserves an important role for the public sector but gives to the
private sector the major responsibility for R&D activities. Reinforcing this
is the continuous expansion and quality improvement in the universities,
especially at the graduate level, which is ensuring an increasing supply of
key high-level scientific and engineering personnel to staff the research
institutes and graduate schools.
B. Research and Development Infrastructure
1.5       The basic infrastructure of industrial R&D in Korea consists of
three components--the public sector research institutes, universities and
private sector research institutes. The growth of R&D in Korea was led by the
public sector research institutes which served key sectors such as
electronics, energy and machinery. The institutes were established to
concentrate scarce technological personnel and optimize its utilization,
strengthen the technological infrastructure and, as centers of excellence, to
stimulate R&D, provide technical advice and services to industry, and to
encourage the return of Korean scientists and engineers working overseas. By
1981, sixteen institutes had been established but their ability to meet
industry's rapidly growing and increasingly complex needs for research support
was limited. Financial and human resources were spread too thinly over too
many institutions and there were overlaps in some R&D fields. A consolidation
program in 1981 reduced the number of institutes to nine and brought them
under the general oversight of the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MOST).1/ The system is now more clearly focussed on industry's needs but
there is still considerable scope for improving staffing and equipment needs
in order to meet adequately industry's needs for advice and technical
services. In response, most institutes now have staffing and re-equipment
plans under implementation.
1.6       Direct links with industry are also being strengthened through
improved outreach programs focussed especially on small and medium industries
(SMIs). Many institutes have set up special outreach divisions to expand and
improve the provision of services to industry. To strengthen further the
links between industry and the institutes, the Government initiated a program
1/   There are now 12 institutes under MOST following the recent spinoff from
KAIST of the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (para. 1.15) and
the Genetic Engineering Center, and the establishment of the Korea Basic
Science Center. Two other institutes come under the authority of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) namely the National Industrial
Research Institute and the Korea Academy of Industrial Technology.



3-3
of 'national projects' in 1982. The program is financed by the Government and
the private sector and focusses on developing technology itn key strategic
areas which are beyond the capacity of industry alone. The scheme includes
both Government-initiated and industry-initiated projects, which are mainly
joint ventures between SMIs and an institute. The criteria for selecting
national R&D projects include knowledge-intensiveness, energy and resources
conservation, contribution to exports and import substitution, and growth
potential.  Projects have been initiated so far in the fields o-f semi-conduc-
tors, computers, fine chemicals and materials science.  The program was funded
at US$133 million in 1988 with about 402 being financed by industry. The
program of national projects is carefully targeted on the priority areas of
technology development and a list of-appropriate research topics is updated
annually by the Ministry of Science and Technology which also is responsible
for obtaining Government approval of national projects and for providing the
Government's share of financing.
1.7       The universities have played an important, if subsidiary, role in
the growth of R&D activities. The universities have the prime responzibility
for basic research programs according to the Government's research policy
which calls for a rough division of responsibility for R&D activities between
the universities (basic research) and the research institutes and industry for
applied and developmental research. However, while the universities have a
preponderance of R&D personnel, limited research funds have kept per capita
research spending at only about one-quarter that of industry and the research
institutes. In 1987, the universities accounted for only 492 of total
expenditures on basic research compared with 292 for the research institutes
and 22Z for industry. Thus, the universities are not yet playing the
predominant role envisaged for them in basic research. However, there is an
improving trend. In recent years, greatly increased Dublic and private
support to university research has led to a rapid rise in expenditure per
researcher--since 1981 such expenditures have more than tripled. The Bank has
also played a role in this improvement under the second education sector loan
(2427-KO) which assisted in strengthening research and graduate programs in
science and technology in the universities (para. 1.34).
1.8       Although R&D efforts were largely financed initially by the
Government, tax and other financial incentives were offered from the early
1970s to encourage the private sector to undertake investments in R&D. These
began to take effect from the late 1970s and are reflected dramatically in R&D
expenditure patterns. In 1976, industry accounted for only 25% of total R&D
expenditures; this had reached 50 by 1980 and is currently around 80X. This
growth is also reflected in the development of private sector R&D institutes
which increased from 43 in 1979 to 539 in 1988. While many of these
institutes are small, 29 of them have over 100 research personnel and are
concentrated mainly in electronics, communications and automobile technology.
The SMIs, which in general lack the resources to support research institutes,
have been encouraged to create research associations to pool scarce human and
financial resources, and to take advantage of government funds and tax
incentives for R&D. In 1988, 37 such associations were in operation,
concentrated mainly in the electrics, electronics, machinery and metals
sectors. The above trends have led to a rapid increase in total R&D expendi-



-4-
ture, which increased from 0.6? of GNP in 1980 to 2.6? in 1989 and is planned
to reach 31 by 1991 and 5? by 2001.
C.  The Development of R&D Personnel
1.9       The base for developing Korea's R&D personnel is to be found mainly
in the science and technology programs in the universities. It is the outputs
from these programs, especially at the graduate level, that provide the human
resources which are essential to support the drive towards high technology
industrial development. About 100 colleges and universities offer degree
programs in (non-medical) science and technology with enrollments of about
401,000 in 1989. This represents about 392 of total undergraduate enroll-
ments.   At the graduate level, about 23,800 students are enrolled in science
and technology programs, representing about 29? of total graduate enrollments.
1.10      In line with the pursuit of increasing technological sophistication
in recent years, programs in science and technology in the universities have
expanded rapidly. Enrollments in undergraduate programs increased by nearly
50% between 1982 and 1989 and the number of graduates more than doubled. In
the same period, even greater emphasis was given to graduate programs. Their
number nearly doubled and enrollments rose by nearly two-thirds; enrollments
in doctoral programs increased at a higher rate of over 90? during the period.
The output of candidates with graduate degrees in science and engineering has
increased at an even higher rate--nearly 2.9 times between 1982 and 1989.
Again, doctorates showed a still higher increase--about 3.9 times during the
period. These trends are indicative of the strong emphasis Korea is giving to
producing the high-level R&D personnel necessary to support ambitious plans
for technological development. The particularly high rates of increase in
doctoral enrollments and graduates reflect both the priority for pursuing
state-of-the art technology as well as strengthening the faculty in graduate
schools of science and technology.
1.11      As the universities expanded rapidly in the seventies and early
eighties in response to economic growth, the increase in enrollments was
accompanied by declining quality. This was especially so in science and
technology programs which were heavily dependent on properly equipped and up-
to-date laboratories and highly trained faculty. Quality varies widely among
the 100 higher institutions offering science and technology programs but
standards are high in only a handful of leading universities. Elsewhere.
qualified faculty are in short supply leading to heavy teaching loads,
student/teacher ratios are too high (e.g., averaging 38:1 in engineering
colleges), expenditures on facilities and equipment have not kept pace with
enrollments and faculty research funds are limited. The Government is
addressing these issues by expanding faculty recruitment to reach an average
student/teacher ratio of 20:1 and an average weekly teaching load of 10 hours
by 1990, increasing research funds and upgrading laboratories. In addition,
the Government has targeted a limited number of graduate schools to be
developed to the highest standards to support the momentum in the growth of
technology-intensive industry in Korea. Support for these efforts was
provided under Loan 2427-K0.



-5
1.12      The growth of R&D efforts has been impressive and Korea now compares
favorably with industrialized coutntries in terms of the proportion of GNP
allocated to R&D.  However, in terms of its endowment of R&D-personnel, Korea
lags well behind the advanced countries. In spite of the rapid expansion of
graduates from science and technology programs in recent years, the number of
Korean researchers per ten thousand population is little more than one-third
the number in Japan and the United States. The Government plans to raise the
ratio of scientists and engineers from 13 per 10,000 population in 1986 to 30
per 10,000 by 2001, a level comparable to the U.S. and Japan in 1985. To
achieve this goal, Korea will need to employ about 150,000 scientists and
engineers by 2001 compared withi 52,000 in employment in 1986. Of these about
iOZ or 15,00 -will have doctorates= and will be expected to provide leadership
in advanced R&D activities. Given current output trends from science and
engineering programs, the target is feasible.
1.13      How;ever, there will need to be a strong commitment to improving the
quality of graduates. As noted above, quality has emerged as a crucial
problem and is being addressed through programs to modernize equipment,
upgrade teaching staff and reduce teaching loads and teacher/student ratios
(para. 1.11). At the graduate level, the move to develop a limited number of
institutions as centers of excellence will raise the standards of teaching and
produce better quality graduates. Quality will be further enhanced in the
universities through the continuing program to repatriate Korean scientists
and engineers. The program, financed by the Government (and assisted under
Loan 2427-KO), has attracted over 1,500 senior personnel, many of whom have
entered teaching and research positions in the leading universities.
1.14      An improvement in the quality of faculty, at least in terms of the
numbers holding doctorates, is already evident. Currently about 75X of
graduate school faculty have a doctorate compared with around 50Z in the early
eighties. Contact hours for faculty are also declining. Historically these
have been high in graduate schools of science and technology, averaging around
12-15 hours. However, the average had been reduced to about 11 hours per week
by 1987 through expanded faculty recruitment programs and a target of 10 hours
per week is expected to be achieved in 1990. Efforts to improve the viability
of programs are also underway. Many graduate programs are undersize in terms
of enrollments and faculty and therefore lack the 'critical mass" to be viable
teaching and research units. Graduate programs averaged 15 students in 1988,
unchanged from the figure in 1982. This means that as the number of programs
expanded rapidly in the eighties (para. 1.10), there was little concentration
or expanding large programs but rather a proliferation of smali ones.  The
Government's policy of concentrating resources in a limited number of graduate
schools to ensure high quality and cost effective performance in teaching and
research will help to alleviate the problem.
1.15      Although the universities are responsible for training most of the
research personnel for the science and technology sector, one other institu-
tion also plays a crucial role in training high-level scientists and
engineers, namely the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.
KAIST operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Science and Technology
and over the years has developed into Korea's leading center of excellence for
graduate education and research in science and technology. Due to rapid



6
growth in the education and research parts of KAIST, the Government decided in
June 1989 to divide the institution into independent parts - the research part
hecoming the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) and remaining on
the Seoul campus, with the education part (at present retaining the designa-
tion KAIST) moving to a new campus, recently completed at Daeduk. Although
KAIST is now a center for graduate educatiotn in science and engineering, a
strong commitment to research will continue as an integral part of graduate
programs. This commitment will help to ensure that top quality faculty will
be attracted to Daeduk. The Daeduk campus of KAIST is being assisted under
the Second Technology Advancement Project (Loan 32OZ-KO) and KIST is receiving
support under the proposed project.
D. Policies for Promoting Research and Development
1.16      In the late 1960s, the Government began to focus on the need for
restructuring industry towards more technology-intensive fields as the
prospects for further expansion of labor-intensive industries became more
limited. To achieve this objective, the Government created an elaborate legal
and institutional framework which established an important public sector role
in coordinating and carrying out R&D programs, provided incentives for the
private sector to expand investments in R&D, strengthened and expanded the
provision of credit to finance R&D programs in the private sector and placed
special emphasis on developing technology-based small and medium industries.
1.17      The process started in 1967 with the establishment of the Ministry
of Science and Technology as the central agency charged with planning and
coordinating the development of science and technology (S&T). MOST has
diverse responsibilities as implied in its organization chart (Annex 1) but
three activities are crucial in defining its impact on S&T planning, personnel
development and oversight of public sector industrial R&D activities. First,
the key to MOST's planning function is the preparation and implementation of a
five year S&T plan which complements the five year national economic plan.
The close links between the two plans ensure that the S&T plan reflects the
country's economic and development priorities ard also that the economic plan
takes full account of the investment requirements in science and technology.
MOST is also responsible for long range planning and strategy in S&T to the
year 2000. Major priority areas have been identified in which R&D investments
will be concentrated such as microelectronics, specialty chemicals,
biotechnology etc. The long range plan provides the framework for the five
year plans which define the R&D programs necessary to meet the long term
objectives.
1.18      Second, MOST plays an important role in the development of
scientific and technological personnel. It is responsible for forecasting the
demand for scientists and engineers and proposing appropriate supply
strategies. Regarding the latter, MOST advises the universities on program
development and enrollment strategies. MOST also has a direct impact on high-
level education in science and technology through its oversight of KAIST, the
premier institution for graduate teaching in S&T, and the Korea Institute of
Technology, a center of excellence for the undergraduate teaching of
scientifically gifted children. Third, MOST has oversight of the public
sector industrial research institutes (para. 1.5) which gives it the respon-



-7.
sibility for approving their budgets and staffing levels and for evaluating
their annual perfrtmance.  MOST also influences the direction and type ot
research undertaken by the institutes through its responsibility for approv-
ing, monitoring and evaluating national research projects (para. 1.6) and for
financing the Government's contribution to these projects.
1.19      To foster research and improve science and technology education, the
Korea Science and Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) was founded in 1977 to
provide research grants for basic and applied research and to finance graduate
research fellowships and fellowships for advanced study abroad. KOSEF employs
rigorous selection procedures for financing research projects including peer
review groups and outs'ide consultants'.  KOSEF regularly reviews major research
fields to ensure that the overall direction of its research funding is
consistent with development priorities. KOSEF receives its resources from
several sources--income from an endowment fund, budget allocations under the
auspices of MOST and donations. (KOSEF also received assistance under Loan
2427-KO.) The growth of KOSEF's budget in recent years reflects the high
priority given to R&D in Korea. From Won 6.3 billion in 1981, KOSEF's budget
had reached nearly Won 20 billion by 1986 and is planned to reach Won 100
billion by 1992.
1.20      Concern for upgrading basic research capacities has increased in
recent years as industrial restructuring towards more technology intensive
production has moved Korea from a stage characterized by the local assimila-
tion and improvement of imported technology, to one which is emphasizing
increasingly the pursuit of indigenous technological innovation. During the
period of technology assimilation, Korea concentrated on mastering basic
production technologies and the need for technological innovation was modest.
But as Korea continues its industrial development towards technologically
sophisticated, higher value-added production this trend must be accompanied by
a strong commitment to create the capacity for technological innovation and to
support the programs in basic research which underlie it. Furthermore Korea,
in facing an increasingly competitive world, needs to promote technological
self-sufficiency to reduce dependence on imported technology and the basic
research/technological innovation linkage is essential to achieve this.2/
Higher priority for basic research is reflected in thc rapid increase in total
expenditures in this field which tripled between 1983 and 1988. In addition,
the Government moved to strengthen the basic research infrastructure by
establishing the Korea Basic Science Center. KBSC will provide opportunities
2/   Nevertheless, imports of technology will continue to play an important role
in Korea's industrialization. To enhance this process, the Government has
recently addressed important issues in the protection of intellectual
property rights.   Legislation was introduced in 1987 which inter alia
permitted product as well as process patents, extended patent rights from
12 to 15 years with possible extension to 20 years and strengthened
enforcement activities. The latter now includes 51 special prosecutors and
squads of specially trained police. Strengthened enforcement resulted in
2,221 people being brought to trial for alleged violation of intellectual
property rights in 1989 compared with 1,102 in 1988 and 828 in 1987.



for the universities and research institutes (public and private) to carry out
basic research using advanced equipment which, for reasons af cost and/or
utilization, is more efficiently placed in a central facility. KBSC is being
assisted under the proposed project.
1.21      At the other end of the spectrum from basic research activities, is
a rising concern for the quality of industrial products. As Korea entered the
stage of mass production, the standardization of products became an increas-
ingly important requirement. As export markets opened, quality improvement
became crucial to export expansion. The rising complexity of technology in
Korean industry was accompanied by an increasing need for greater precision in
measurement technQlogy. In response to these trends the Government has built
up the National Standards System to maintain international measuremen-t
standards (mass, length, voltage, etc) and established the National Calibra-
tion System to undertake precision measurements for public and private
enterprises. At the center of these national systems is the Korea Standards
Research Institute (KSRI-being assisted under the Second Technology Advance-
ment Project, Loan 3202-KO) which is responsible for maintaining international
standards of measurement and for calibration of instruments in major research
agencies and laboratories. The latter constitute the secondary calibration
level and include the National Industrial Research Institute (NIRI-being
assisted under the proposed project). These developments represent clear
recognition that national measurement standards are crucial determinants of
the level of technological achievement. Thus as Korea continues on its path
of high-technology based industrial development, national measurement
standards must continue to improve accordingly, with tolerance limits narrow-
ing continuously towards the levels of Korea's major competitors. To keep
abreast of overseas trends, KSRI maintains close relations with the standards
institutions in the major industrialized countries.
1.22      While creating a role for the public sector in technology develop-
ment, the Government decided that the main effort in expanding R&D should be
the responsibility of the private sector, although in the mid-seventies the
latter accounted for only about 25Z of total R&D spending. The Government
therefore set out to establish incentives for the private sector to develop an
R&D capability and to expand credit for financing R&D programs, especially in
risky fields. The center-piece of the incentive system is the Technology
Development Reserve (TDR) which was set up under the Acceleration of
Technology Act in 1972. The TDR allows companies to set aside up to 30% of
profits or 1.5% of revenues which are tax exempt provided the funds are used
for a MOST-approved R&D program. Other tax incentives include tax credits for
technological upgrading and the commercialization of R&D results, reduced
duties on imported R&D equipment, accelerated depreciation for R&D related
capital investment and tax deductions for current expenditures (e.g. training)
on R&D.
1.23      The provision of credit specifically for R&D activities was
inaugurated in 1976 when the Korea Development Bank (KDB) launched its program
of Technology Development Loans. Lending volume increased rapidly and had
reached Won 92 billion by .987.  Currently, a maximum of Won 120 billion is
available for loans annually. Complementing KDB's operations has been the
rapid rise of venture capital financing for technology development. From a



base of almost zero in 1980, 29 venture capital firms are now operating with a
lending volume which had reached Won 151 billion in 1988. The leading
institution involved in venture capital financing is the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) which has played a particularly important role
in financing risky R&D programs and is the beneficiary of three Bank loans
(2112-KO, 2473-KO, 2913-KO). It also has a broader role in promoting
industrial technology through identifying and appraising R&D projects
initiated by industry as well as in supplying credit.
1.24      In developing financing arrangements, the Government has placed
strong emphasis on technology development among SMIs. Although the large
conglomerates have led Korea's industrialization and dominate the economy--the
dozen leading groups account for nearly one-quarter of GNP--the SMIs also make
a significant contribution. In 1988, SMIs accounted for 572 of manufacturing
employment and 392 of value added. The Government is emphasizing the role of
SMIs as suppliers of components and materials for large enterprises. This
policy aims to reduce import dependence, increase employment and lead to more
balanced regional development. SMIs are also being promoted as exporters in
their own right in recognition that smaller enterprises are more flexible than
large ones in responding to rapidly changing technology and product demand.
Consequently a number of special arrangements have been introduced to support
the development of SMIs.
1.25      SMIs have preferential access to credit in commercial banks and are
served also by specialized financial institutions. The Compulsory Lending
Ratio requires that at least 35Z of the loans of major commercial banks must
be directed to SMIs; for local and regional banks, the proportion is 802.
Financial resources for the SMIs are provided by the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Fund (SMIPF) and two specialized banks--the Industrial Bank of Korea
(IBK) and the Citizens National Bank (CNB). The SMIPF was established to
improve access to long-term credit which it provides at slightly below-market
rates. The IBK serves small and medium enterprises while the CNB is
restricted to small enterprises (less than 100 employees) as well as household
consumers. The two banks finance about half the SMIs' long-term capital
requirements. Loan limits were increased in 1990 to Won 2.5 trillion for IBK
and to Won 2.3 trillion for CNB. A loan guarantee scheme for SMIs is also
available through the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund. Total loans provided by
banks and financial institutions serving the SMIs increased from Won 7.4
billion in 1988 to Won 13.4 billion in 1989, a rise of nearly 502.
1.26      In addition to financial arrangements introduced in support of SMI
development, several other initiatives have been undertaken. The Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC, which controls the SMIPF) also
provides technical assistance and training for SMIs. There is also a program
of 'designated areas" under the Ministry of Trade and Industry which reserves
certain fields for SMI production and prevents entry to them by large
enterprises so as not to crowd out smaller ones. The list currently includes
205 areas such as auto parts, consumer electronics components, etc. The Rural
Industry Development Program develops small-scale industrial estates
throughout rural areas and SMIs which relocate to them receive special tax
incentives and assistance from SMIPC.



- 10 _
1.27      The Government has recognized that as industry in general bec-omes
more technology intensive, SMIs must inevitably follow the same path if they
are to continue as suppliers to large enterprises. Moreover, if SMIs are to
develop as exporters, they must move increasingly into high-technology
production. To encourage this process, the Productivity Improvement and
Technology Development Program assists SMIs to move into more technology-
intensive fields and also supports productivity improvement in SMIs to
maintain their competitiveness in the face of rising wage levels and won
appreciation. To achieve the successful movement of SMIs into more technology
intensive products, either for export or as import replacement of parts and
materials for large enterprises, SMIs must achieve quality standards
comparable with overseas suppliers and produce products of sufficient quality
to be able to compete in export markets. More rigorous quality standards will
be enhanced by the Government's policy of strengthening the standards'
institutes which provide advice and technical services to SMIs.
E. Project Institutions
1.28      Within the infrastructure of R&D institutions, the proposed project
would support three--KIST,KBSC and NIRI. These institutions are described in
more detail below:
1.29      Korea Institute of Science and Technology.  KIST was established in
1966 as Korea's first modern multi-disciplinary research institute covering a
broad spectrum of applied research activities. It was also charged with
providing technical services to small and medium industries. KIST was
successful in these activities as witnessed by the extensive commercialization
of R&D results and the licensing of industrial know-how to industrial firms.
However, as Korea's industry expanded rapidly in size and complexity, KIST
became unable to meet the increased demands for R&D and technical assistance.
Thus a number of public research institutes were established to serve particu-
lar sectors of industry (para. 1.5). At the same time the R&D capacity of the
private sector was also expanding rapidly in response to incentives introduced
by the Government. RIST continued as Korea's leading multisectoral R&D
institution and in order to bring together R&D activities and the advanced
training of scientists and engineers, KIST was merged in 1980 with the Korea
Advanced Institute of Science. The latter had been established in 1971 as a
center of excellence for graduate education in science and engineering. The
merger of the two institutions produced the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology. Expectations from the merger were that graduate
students would gain direct industrial research experience and the interchange
between research and academic staff would strengthen both research activities
and teaching. However, these benefits were not fully achieved largely because
researchers and academics were evaluated according to different criteria and
this made interaction difficult. Rapid growth in the research and teaching
parts of KAIST also made them more difficult to manage within one institution.
The result therefore was to split the institution in 1989 into the research
arm (to be titled KIST) and the graduate teaching arm (to retain the title
KAIST). The latter has moved as a separate institution to Daeduk and is being
assisted under Loan 3202-R0.



- 11 -
1.30      KIST is staffed with a highly qualified group of 458 researchers
almost all of whom have graduate degrees including 38Z with doctorates. The
researchers are supported by a technical staff of 172 engineers and
technicians. Recruitment plans call for an annual increase of around 15Z for
research staff over the next five years.  KIST is divided into 7 scientific
divisions comprising 56 laboratories (Annex 2). KIST's research efforts are
of two main types: (a) national R&D projects undertaken in conjunction with
public sector agencies and private firms; and (b) industry-sponsored research
financed entirely by private firms. These research programs amounted to about
962 of KIST's research expenditures in 1989. The remainder were in-house
research programs financed entirely by KIST.  In 1989, KIST carried out 298
research projects valued at US$19.5 million.  Of this total, national R&D
projects aceounted -for US$15.4 mai-lion and- sma-ller-scale, mainly industry-
sponsored projects, US$4.1 million. Within KIST's industry-sponsored research
program, special emphasis is placed on assistance to SMIs. In 1989, 36
projects valued at about US$3.5 million were undertaken on behalf of SMIs
which represents a considerable increase from 1986 when the program was
estimated at US$2.1 million.  KIST's overall research expenditures have grown
rapidly in recent years--60Z during 1985-89, with national R&D projects
increasing by 67Z in the same period. National R&D projects result in
significant transfers of basic and core technologies to industry and in
patents under which technology is licensed to industry. KIST transfers about
10 technologies and registers about 25-30 patents per year (33 in 1989) and
these increasingly benefit SMIs as the major conglomerates are now responsible
for much of their own R&D work in company-owned research centers. It is
estimated that KIST's research effort will more than double during the next
five years to reach US$45.0 million by 1995. KIST's recurrent budget is
expected to reflect the institution's rapid growth. Recurrent expenditures
are expected to increase by 63Z during 1982-92 but around 582 of expenditures
will continue to be met from income received from R&D services, licensing
fees, sale of prototypes etc.
1.31      Korea Basic Science Center.  In order to promote a more rational and
efficient use of expensive research equipment in the basic sciences, MOST made
the decision in 1988 to set up KBSC. It was established under the auspices of
the Korea Science and Engineering Foundation (para. 1.19) but is responsible
directly to MOST on matters of policy, budget, personnel etc. KBSC is to be
based in Daeduk on a campus currently under construction. It is situated at
present in temporary facilities in Seoul. In due course, KBSC will have six
regional centers with the Seoul center taking over KBSC's present facilities.
KBSC's major functions are to: (a) provide common facilities and equipment
for basic research for use by researchers from universities and research
institutes; (b) develop, in consultation with local and overseas authorities,
operational procedures and techniques for the most effective use of-expensive,
large-scale equipment; and (c) develop and maintain a scientific information
and data base including the provision of scientific papers to researchers in
the universities and research institutes. Management of KBSC is the
responsibility of the Director who is assisted by an Operational Council of
which he is chairman.
1.32      KBSC consists of four instrument divisions, one for each of the
basic sciences namely, physics, chemistry, biology and earth sciences



- 12 _
-(Annex -3).  There is also a Science Information Resources Division which is
responsible for the collection and dissemination of scientific information and
data.  The Techrical Support Division is staffed with engineers and
technicians responsible for maintaining the scientific equipment and
instrumentation.  Each instrument division is staffed by part-time principal
researchers, drawn mainly from the universities, who are responsible for
advising on the research programs to be undertaken by KBSC.3/ Full-time
researchers are responsible for operating the scientific equipment to
specified levels of accuracy and sensitivity. They also conduct seminars for
potential users of the equipment on operational procedures, measurement
methodologies and safety precautions. Each user team will have a full-time
researcher attached -to it.  It is anticipated that when KBSC becomes fully
-established, full-time resear4her-s will be able to. undertake sponsored-
research projects, especially those that advance measurement techniques and
improve equipment operating systems. At present research staff total 27
comprising 11 full-time and 16 part-time personnel. All researchers have
graduate degrees including 15 with doctorates. Researchers are assisted by a
technical support group of 10 engineers and technicians. As a newly
established institution, rapid expansion is planned for KBSC in its early
years. Overall staffing is expected to increase 7.5 times by 1992, including
178 full-time and 180 part-time researchers. KBSC's recurrent budget also
reflects the planned expansion with expenditures estimated to increase 6.3
times in 1989-91. It is expected that when KBSC becomes fully operational,
income from fees levied for the use of its equipment will increase from US$0.2
million in 1990 to USO.8 million in 1993.
1.33      National Industrial Research Institute.  NIRI in its present form
dates from 1976 when it was designated an institution at the secondary
calibration level in the National Calibration System (para. 1.21). NIRI
derives its functions from its legal responsibility to carry out tests and
analyses under laws relating to weights and measures, industrial standards,
industrial product quality control, safety and energy consumption. Its main
functions are: (a) testing of quality and performance of products in accor-
dance with foreign standards and testing of domestic products in comparison
with foreign products; (b) calibration and verification of weighing and
measuring instruments; (c) technical guidance to SMIs including provision of
reference materials, specifications and product standards, providing on-site
solutions to production problems, providing test facilities for use by firms
which lack the appropriate equipment etc; and (d) R&D activities especially
those related to improving measurement techniques and methodologies for
testing and analysis. NIRI has always played an important role in supporting
SMIs but with the Government's increasing emphasis on SMI development, NIRI's
3/   Overall research priorities for KBSC are set in relation to MOST's long
term plan for the development of science and technology (para. 1.17).
Research priorities are determined by the Operational Council. Individual
research programs are identified by the principal researchers in conference
and submitted to the Operational Council. The principal researchers are
also responsible for the internal evaluation of these projects.



- 13 :
support role-is also expanding especially in the field of technology-intensive
SMIs.  The latter are placing new demands on NIRI's services which require the
development of greater reliability and accuracy in testing, new standards for
new materials and products, improved data on quality and standards etc. In
response to these demands, NIRI is increasing its staffing and re-equipping
its laboratories to improve its capacity to support the expansion of
technology-intensive SMIs.
1.34      The main ope'rational parts of NIRI comprise a main center in Seoul
with 5 technical departments consisting of 19 divisions, 9 Provincial
Industrial Testing Centers (PITCs} and a specialized test center for ceramics
research and testing (Annex 4). NIRI's main center is responsible for
-undertaking -the more complex testing and-measurement activities and carrying
out research while the PITCs provide technical services to SMIs on a day-to-
day basis. NIRI has an overall research and testing staff of 311 of which 542
are in the PITCs. About one-third of the research staff have graduate
degrees. In line with the planned growth of NIRI in support of the priority
for SMI development, the research staff is planned to increase by 153 or about
502 by 1994. Of these, 90 will be assigned to NIRI's main center and 63 to
the PITCs. In support of NIRIVs expansion, its recurrent budget is increasing
by about 14Z p.a. Fees from testing and income from research projects
amounted to about US$2.5 million in 1988 and this was equivalent to about 25Z
of the recurrent budget. Income is expected to increase steadily, especially
from testing fees. The number of tests carried out by NIRI is increasing
rapidly and rose 342 during 1983-87.
F. Bank's Role in Technology Development and Skills Advancement
1.35      The Bank has supported technology development through direct
assistance in promoting R&D as well as through an active dialogue with
Government on technology policy and institutional issues. The Bank's first
direct involvement in technology development was in 1979 with Bank financing
for the Electronics Technology Project (Loan 1676-K0) which aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
(KIET) to lead industry in acquiring and developing semiconductor technologies
and provide support services in R&D, technical training and the identification
of overseas market opportunities. The project completion report (PCR) for the
project indicates that the rapid development of the private semiconductor
industry in the early 1980s largely obviated the need for the services that
KIET aimed to supply. As a result, KIET did not become a profit-making, self-
financing institution with a leadership role as envisaged at appraisal.
Nevertheless, the PCR concludes that KIET probably did play a useful catalytic
role in showing the Korean electronics industry that the acquisition of
advanced technologies and capabilities was feasible.
1.36      Assistance to the electronics industry was followed by two projects
which provided direct support for strengthening SMIs. Loan 2215-KO assisted
the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation in expanding technical
assistance and training services to SMIs in the machinery subsectors and in
the provision of credit to SMIs through several financial intermediaries. The
PCR indicates that the credit component was not fully disbursed due to the
availability of local credit at more competitive rates. However, the



- 14 -
technical assistanco and training components were implemented satisfactorily
although the loan allocation for the latter was underutilized due to the.
avaiiability of bilateral grant funds.  Loan 2515-KO provided further support
to'SMIPC's technical assistance and training activities and assistance for
expanding and improving credit services and strengthening subcontracting
arrangements between SMIs and large contractors. The PCR indicates that over
80Z of the loan was cancelled due to the availability of local and overseas
funds at more competitive rates. The technical assistance component was only
partially successful due to the reluctance of SMIPC's clientele to hire and
pay for foreign experts. The PCR concluded that the loan was untimely and
excessive in amount.
1.37      Three loans to KXTiC (Loans 211Z-KO, Z473T-K, Z9I3-KO'have saccess-
fully filled a gap in the financial system by providing assistance for risky
technology-intensive industrial R&D projects. The IFC has also made an
investment in the Korea Development Investment Company, a venture capital
company which invests, inter alia, in the commercialization of new technology.
These technology-financing projects were in line with Bank recommendations to
move industrial policy away from one in which the Government takes the lead in
identifying specific industries for development towards one which emphasizes
intervention in functional areas such as R&D and the development of SMI and
venture capital, where market imperfections and externalities exist.
1.38      The Bank has provided more general support for financing industrial
development and assisted in strengthening financial intermediaries providing
long-term resources for industrial enterprises. The Bank has lent about
US$1.4 billion through these intermediaries.41 Project completion reports
and PPARs available for a number of these projects conclude that in general
projects were efficiently implemented and that the Bank's objectives of
resource transfer and institution building were achieved satisfactorily.
Underlying these operations, the continued dialogue between the Bank and the
Government on Korea's industrial development has resulted in the preparation
of a number of important reports including Managing Korea's Industrial
Transition (Report No. 6138-KO; July 31, 1986). This report helped the
Government think through its program for trade and financial sector liberali-
zation as well as industrial policy.
1.39      To complement direct assistance and financial and institutional
support for technology development, the Bank has financed six loans to assist
the development of technical personnel. The restructuring of industry towards
more skill-intensive, high-technology production requires the continuous
expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Bank lending in education has
closely paralleled the increasing sophistication of the Korean economy. The
Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/credits, focussed on
4/   Nine loans for $528.3 million have been made to KLB, five loans for $482.5
million have gone to KDB; SMIB has received four loans for $205 million and
two loans for $60 million have been made to CNB.   Loan 2215-KO (SMI
machinery) allocated $59 million through SMIB ($29 million), KLB ($20
million) and CNB ($10 million).



the development of vocational and-technical education at the secondary and
postsecondary levels to build a firm base to the system for producing
technical personnel.  PPARs fotr these projects concluded that t.hey we're in
general well-conceived and successfully implemented.  The reports also
concluded that future projects would benefit from: (a) advanced project
preparation before approval; (b) improved local management procedures to
expedite procurement; and (c) greater focus on policy analysis anl evaiuation.
These lessons were built into the two subsequent operations which were pollcy-
oriented sector loans.
1.40      The first education sector loan (Loan 1800-KO), concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of enginee'ring and
management -through -the.supply of-equipment, staff. developmeat. and institution-
al improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252; May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learnt were: (a) a stable
and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful implementa-
tion of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker and more
sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the additional
time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient implemen-
tation.
1.41      The second sector loan (Loan 2427-KO), which incorporated these
lessons, supported improvements in graduate education in science and engineer-
ing, upgraded secondary school and college science programs, expanded graduate
research programs and improved sector management, manpower monitoring and
strengthening the financial base of private educational institutions.
Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it closed on schedule
(June 30, 1989) with its major policy objectives having been achieved. A PCR
is currently under preparation. The first Technology Advancement Project
(Loan 3037-KO) combines assistance to improve science and engineering educa-
tion with strengthening the R&D capacity of two national research institutes
relating to metals and machinery, and electrotechnology. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactor'ily. The recently approved Second
Technology Advancement Project (Loan 3202-KO) has similar objectives and
design and supports a graduate institution in science and technology and three
national research institutes relating to genetic engineering, metrology and
energy and resources. The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector is
documented in the OED report titled Review of the Impact of World Bank Lending
for Educational Development in Korea (Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The Government included the project in its FY91 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
December 1989. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
according to guidelines formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised
in February-March 1990 and appraised in June 1990.



B.  P-roject Rationale
2.2       Bank support for technology development in Korea during the last
decade has focused mainly on financing R&D projects through financial inter-
mediaries, strengthening those intermediaries and the development of technical
and scientific education.  More tecently the Bank has started to assist R&D
activities in the universities and the national research institutes. The
policy environment in which the proposed project is being designed is
generally sound, having developed over the last decade with the Bank's
assistance under two education sector loans which supported improvements in
the policy framework governing education and research in science and
technology.  Within this policy framework, Bank assistance is still required
to fiiit -gaps in i-nvestmel't programs of research institutions which tr-di-
tionally have relied on external financing to meet equipment upgre:ding needs.
2.3       The two previous technology advancement projects have strengthened
the R&D capacity of public sector research institutes thereby improving their
ability to provide advice, technical and research services to industry. The
proposed project is the third in a series of projects which are closely-spaced
in order to maximize their impact on improving support to industry. The
project would continue to addres3 the needs of specific R&D institutions which
the Government has identified as requiring additional quality-improving
investments and which the Bank is well-qualified to provide. The three
projects, taken together, would provide assistance to 10 of the 14 national
research institutes (para. 1.5) thus making an important contribution to
meeting the equipment needs of key laboratories in the institutes. Further-
more, Bank involvement in the project allows it to bring value-added to the
project design process. Processing of the project (and its two predecessors),
has led to the development of standardized preparation documents which contain
the basic information necessary for project appraisal. This has reduced
project preparation time substantially thus increasing the cost-effectiveness
of the process. The project would also continue the opportunity for the Bank
to learn lessons from Korea's experience in technology development which could
be utilized elsewhere.
C. Project Description
2.4       The broad aim of the project is to reinforce Government's priority
for technology-intensive industrial development by strengthening industrial
R&D and basic research capacity and enhancing the application of industrial
standards to raise the quality of products. More specifically the project, to
be carried out over a period of 3.5 years, would finance specialized equipment
through the Bank loan and complementary inputs (civil works, consumables,
etc.) to be financed by the Government to:
(a) improve the quality of research programs in KIST to enhance its
ability to assist industry in developing advanced technologies;
(b) improve opportunities for joint research activities in the basic
sciences through strengthening common research facilities at KBSC;
and



- .17 -
(c)  enhance the development and application of industrial standards
through strengthening NIR},
Korea -Institute of Science and Technology (EstiMated baseline cost,
US$19.4 million)
2.5       Equipment to be financed under the project for KIST (US$15.0 million
excluding contingencies) will be allocated in two groups--first, items for the
common use of all research departments (US$5.0 million) and second,
specialized equipment for the individual research divisions (US$10 million).
A special committee within KIST surveyed the research, departments to determine
-the need for common use equipment.  Items and outline specifications were
_ identified,- t-e. utilization- of the items evaluated andd an assessment made of
the adequacy of staff available to operate the equipment. The list was
prioritized and items allocated for financing under the proposed loan.
Equipment items for the research divisions were identified by each division in
relation to the research projects planned for each division. The two equip-
ment lists were then aggregated and reviewed in accordance with KIST's
standard internal review procedures for equipment. This review is carried out
by the Research Review Committee whose recommendations are made to the
President of KIST. The common use equipment list covers 10 items with a major
emphasis on electron spectroscopy and microscopy. Equipment for the research
divisions covers a range of research activities but with a focus on materials
science (ceramics, polymers) and applied sciences (mechanical and chemical
engineering). The project would also finance the costs of transportation and
installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related
to the equipment.
Korea Basic Science Center (Estimated baseline cost, US$22.8 million)
2.6       The identification of appropriate equipment for KBSC has been
pursued methodically. KBSC surveyed professional associations involved with
the basic sciences, universities and research institutes to ascertain the
demand for basic research equipment. KBSC then set up a number of ad hoc
committees to screen the lists for selection of equipment to be installed in
its laboratories. The equipment was classified into three groups: Group A -
very expensive equipment (US$1.0 million unit cost and above) that could only
be maintained in a national facility; Group B - expensive equipment whose
frequency of use could not justify its purchase by most institutions (US$0.1
million - 0.9 million); and Group C - less expensive equipment needed in quite
large numbers and frequently used and therefore suitable for purchase by
universities and research institutes (up to US$0.1 million). It was decided
that Group C would be the responsibility of individual institutions while
Group A equipment would be procured for KBSO's national center at Daeduk and
Group B equipment would be installed at both the national and regional centers
of KBSC. The equipment lists were submitted for review to MOST which decided,
with reference to long-term priorities in science and technology, that
priority ir. the purchase of equipment would be accorded to Group B. A first
phase equipment procurement program (US$7.0 million) has been financed for
KBSC by HOST.   The second phase of procurement will be financed under the
proposed loan.  The Bank-financed equipment (US$15.0 million excluding
contingencies), would be installed in KBSC's new campus at Daeduk. About one-
half of the equipment would comprise analytical instrumentation for chemical,
bio-molecular and surface analysis. One-third would support plasma



- 18
diagnostics and the remainder would be  for physical quantity measurement.
Civil works, financed by the Government. to house the equipment (estimated
cost US$3.8 million excluding cortingencies) are at present under construction-
at Daeduk and will be completed in time for the install-ation of equ-ipment.
The project would also finance the costs of transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related to the equipment.
National Institute of Industrial Research (Estimated baseline cost,
US$40.8 million)
2.7       The equipment list for NIRI,-including the PITCs, was drawn up by a
special task force of staff members established specially for the task.  An
adviser-ycommittee of 25 internal and external specialists was set up to
review the lists and make recommendations to the Director, NIRI.  Both the
task force and the advisory committee represent the major specialized fields
within NIRI. The latter is advised by the permanent Facilities Review
Committee which is responsible for planning facilities development and
equipment acquisition. About two-thirds of the equipment (US$20.0 million
excluding contingencies) will be allocated to NIRI's main center. It will be
installed in the five technical departments and the Ceramics Test Center. The
major emphasis in equipment procurement will be on chemistry, machinery/
metallurgy and electronics which will receive nearly three-quarters of the
equipment with the remainder being mainly special test and analysis equipment.
The PITCs will receive equipment (estimated cost US$10.0 million excluding
contingencies) related mainly to basic analysis to reinforce quality control
and legal tasks required by applicable legislation (para. 2.11). Equipment
received by each PITC will be related to the level and structure of industry
in its command area. For example, the equipment received by the Kyonggi PITC
will reflect the concentration of electrical and electronic industries in its
command area. Special emphasis will be given to ensuring that the PITCs'
equipment reflects the needs of local SMIs and reinforces their special
services for SMIs such as the provision of open-house laboratories for testing
and analysis for enterpriFes with no such facilities. Civil works, financed
by the Government, to accommodate some of the Bank-financed equipment are at
present under construction at the NIRI main center. They are estimated to
cost US$2.7 million (excluding contingencies) and will be completed in time
for the installation of equipment. The project would also finance the costs
of transportation and installation of equipment, consumable materials and 0&M
expenditures related to the equipment.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$92.2 million
equivalent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component
is summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2.
Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 5 and project
expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 6.



19
_Tobtc &.1. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS SY COMPONENT
Foreign
-r -n Mn 6tl110n           USaUtitJ_ns X of
Local   For-ign    ot;tT    Local   Foreign   Total   Total
Korea Institute of
Sctonc* and Technology          2.8      11.0     13.8    4.0      16.4   19.4         78
Korea Basic Science
C-nter                          4.7      11.6     16.2     6.8    16.2    22.8         71
-Ntional Industriel-
-Resaarch Institute              8,7     22.3      29.0     9.4    31.4   40.8          ?-
Boseline cost                   14.2      44.8     69.0   20.0    83.0    83.0          78
Contingenc ls
Physical                       0.7       2.2      2.9    1.0       3.1    4.1         76
Price incraese                 1.2       2.4      3.8     1.7      3.4     6.1        67
Subtotal                     1.9      4.8       6.5     2.7      8.6     9.2        71
Total Project Cost la           18.1      49.4    65.5.   22.7    89.6   92.2           is
L* Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at USS6.1 million.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Billion                 US$ Million         as X of
Local   Foreign   Tota7    Local   Foreign   Total    Total
Equipment                        -        42.8    42.6      -       80.0   60.0        100
Equlpment transportation
and instaltation                2.3       0.3      2.6     3.4      0.6     3.9        10
Civil works                      3.7       0.9      4.8     5.2      1.3    6.6         20
Operations and
maintenance                     4.1       0.6      4.6     5.7      0.8    6.3         10
Consumable mate;rial             4.1       0.s      4.8    6.7       0.8    6.3         10
Baseline cost                 14.2      44.8     59.0   20.0    03.0   83.0           76
Contingencies
Physical                       0.7       2.2      2.9     1.0      3.1    4.1         76
Price increase                 1.2       2.4      3.8     1.7      3.4     5.1        67
Subtotal                       1.9       4.8      6.5     2.7      6.5     9.2        71
Total project cost              18.1      49.4     e656   22.7    e9.6   92.2           75
3.2         Base costs are estimated at February 1991 prices.   Construction
costs were provided by the Government and are based on contract awards for
similar facilities in Korea. Equipment costs are estimated on the basis of
master lists already drawn up and recent catalogue prices. Transportation and
installation costs are based on recent experience with these activities in the
project institutions. The initial supply of consumables and the costs of
operations and maintenance were estimated by the institutions using standard



- 20                         ,
procedures.  Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at
US$5.1 million.
3.3       The contingency allowance of USS9.2 million (about 11? of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 52 of
baseline costs for civil works, equipment,  transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materiaLs and,O&M expenditures.  Price increase
contingencies were calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance
with the following expected annual average price increase percentages; foreign
cost, 3.6Z in FY91,and thereafter and local cost, 5.02 p.a. throughout.
Accordingly. aggregated price increases are estimated at about 5.9Z of
basellne Costs plus- physical'contingencies. -
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$69.5 million (about 752 of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 202, equipment - 1002,
transportation and installation - 10%, consumables - 102, and O&M - 102.
B.  Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$60.0 million equivalent would finance about
86% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 651 of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 352 or about US$32.2 million equivalent. The
loan amount is limited to US$60.0 million by the foreign borrowing program and
is therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan
amount would be allocated as follows: KIST, US$15.0 million; KBSC, US$15.0
million; and NIRI, US$30.0 million. The loan would finance 1OOZ of the
baseline cost of equipment, with all contingencies to be financed by the
Government.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                Government        IBRD        Total
--US$ million-----------
Equipment                                  -             60.0           60.0
Equipment transportation
and installation                          3.9            -             3.9
Civil works                                6.5            -              6.5
Operations and maintenance                 6.3            -              6.3
Consumable materials                       6.3            -              6.3
Contingencies                              9.2            -              9.2
Total                                 32.2           60.0          92.2



- 21 -
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       The only incremental recurrent expenditures generated when the
project is fully operational would be for consumables and operations and
maintenance. These would amount to about US$6.0 million p.a., which
represents about 4.32 of the estimated combined recurrent budgets of the three
project institutions in 1993. These additional expenditures can be
accommodated by the institutions without difficulty.
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Each project institutiGn would be responsible for the implementation
of its part of the project. The institutions are autonomous bodies managing
their own operations under the general budgetary oversight of the Ministry of
Science and Technology for KIST and KBSC and the Ministry of Trade and
Industry (MTI) for NIRI. Thus MOST and MTI would play only an overall
coordinating role in project implementation. They would not become involved
in day-to-day implementation activities but would be kept informed by the Bank
and the institutions on the general progress of project implementation. MOST
and MTI would become involved directly only in project-wide issues which
would require a coordinated response from the three institutions, such as any
change of project description, preparation of the project completion report,
etc.
3.8       The project institutions are adequately staffed with experienced
personnel in accounting and procurement although KBSC and NIRI have not yet
had the exposure to Bank implementation procedures that KIST gained under
Loan 2427-KO. However, the bulk of the work in equipment procurement would be
undertaken by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK), the procurement
agency of the Government which is highly experienced in procuring equipment
under the Bank's international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. On the
basis of equipment specifications provided by the institutions, OSROK would
prepare bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction with the
institutions and make contract awards with the agreement of the institutions.
The project implementation schedule is s wn in Annex 7.
3.9       Implementation of the RIST component would be undertaken by the Loan
Project Implementation Unit (LPIU) located within the Office of International
Cooperation and Public Affairs. The LPIU would have a full-time project
manager who would draw on the part-time assistance of staff from the Division
of Administration to handle such activities as project accounting, reporting,
correspondence and procurement. The implementation of the KBSC component
would also be undertaken by a LPIU which would be located within the
Administration Division (AD). The project manager would be the chief of the
Planning Section of the AD and he would be assisted by specialist staff from
the other sections of the AD. NIRI's component would be implemented by an
IBRD Project Headquarters which would be managed by a senior division chief of
NIRI and staffed part-time by specialist staff from the General Administration
and Planning Divisions of NIRI. The Bank would supervise the project twice
yearly around March and September which would coincide as far as possible with
preparation of the semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.16). Overall
implementation issues would be handled by the task manager with technical
aspects being the responsibility of technical specialists.



22 -
Status of Project Pregaration
3.10      The physical facilities required to house the equipment to be
procured under the proposed project already exist at KUST and similar
facilities for KBSC will be completed by late 199l.  Some extensions to NIRI
are being constructed but these will be completed in time to install the
equipment. Equipment lists and specifications have been reviewed and found to
be satisfactory. Schedules of procurement have also been prepared. Project
management authorities have been identified within the project institutions
and supporting staff are also available. The advanced stage of project
preparation would allow implementation to commence immediately after loan
signing.
Procurement
3.11      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  Civil works, to be
financed by the Government, would be procured through established local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.  About 85Z of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in contracts valued at less than
US$200,000 may be procured through international or local shopping with an
aggregate ceiling of US$9.0 million. Local equipment manufacturers would be
extended a 152 preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever
is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Transportation, operations and
maintenance costs on equipment would be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not included in
the equipment contracts, would also be financed by the Government.



- 23 -
Table 3.4:  PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure        ICB       LCB    Other /a      NIA   contingencies
----  (US$ million) -
Equipment                      56.3      -          9.9       -           66.2
(51.0)               (9.0)                 (60.0)
- -Equipment transportation         -        -                 4,4-       - 4.4
and installation                                           (0.0)        (0.0)
Civil works                     -        7.2        -         -            7.2
(0.0)                             (0.0)
Operations and                  -        -          -         7.2          7.2
maintenance                                                (0.0)        (0.0)
Consumable materials            -        -          -         7.2          7.2
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                    56.3       7.2       9.9       18.8         92.2
(51.0)    (0.0)      (9.0)     (0.0)       (60.0)
/a Includes international and local shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.
3.12      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards. However, complete bidding documents
including commercial terms, schedule of requirements and technical specifica-
tions would be sent to the Bank for reference and record before each invita-
tion to bid. Bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be
retained by OSROK for ex-post review by Bank missions.
Disbursements
3.13      The proposed loan of US$60.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of 3.5 years (Annex 8). This is less than the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The proposed
shorter profile is justified on the basis of the advanced stage of project
preparation (para. 3.10) and the long experience OSROK has had in procuring
equipment under the Bank's ICB procedures. The completion date of the project
would be December 31, 1993 and the closing date June 30, 1994. Disbursements
would be made on the basis of (a) 1002 of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment or 1002 of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufac-
tured equipment; and (b) 652 of local expenditures for other equipment items



- 24 _
procure-d locally.  All reimbursement would be made against statements of
expenditure for which full supporting documentation would be retained in the
project institutions-, for review as requested, by visiting Bank missions.
Adm-inistrative and accounting capability is adequate to support the SOE
procedure.
3.14      To facilitate disbursements, special accounts, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up separately for KIST, KBSC, and NIRI at the Korea
Exchange Bank in amounts of US$1.5 million, US$1.5 million. and US$3.0
million, respectively. These amounts represent the estimated average amount
required to finance project expenditures for the next four months. Applica-
tions for replenishment of each special account would be submitted to the Bank
on a quarterly basis or t'henevei the ambunt requested exceeds 50  of the
initial deposit, whichever comes first.
Evaluation
3.15      Because research projects require a combination of inputs
(researchers, equipment, consumables, computer time, etc.), it is not feasible
to evaluate the contribution of equipment to the outcomes of research projects
in isolation from the other inputs. Research equipment to be financed for
KIST and RBSC under the project and utilized in specific research projects
would be included in the evaluation of these projects in accordance with
procedures in force in the research institutes.  Evaluation is the
responsibility of a research review committee in each institute using criteria
approved by MOST.  These procedures vary depending upon whether the project is
classified as a national or an institute project. Evaluation of the latter is
the responsibility of individual institutes which apply criteria relating to
the number of publications generated by the project, number of patents awarded
and the degree to which the project has met its objectives. National projects
are subjected to similar evaluation criteria, but also are required to undergo
a mid-term review to assess whether progress has been sufficient to warrant
further funding. A final evaluation is also required for national projects
and these reports are sent to MOST for review. The amount of funds generated
from research (patents, licensing fees, etc.) becomes an importsnt criterion
in the MOST evaluation. The overall evaluation of research institutes is
carried out by MOST on the basis of performance reports which each institute
has to submit annually. Equipment to be procured for NIRI would be used on a
continuous basis for testing and measurement of industrial equipment and
products rather than research and thus its evaluation would be an ongoing
process of assessing its operational effectiveness.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
3.16      The Government would cause KIST, KBSC and NIRI to maintain separate
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that audited accounts and financial statements
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year.
The Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank in about
March and September, provide status reports for visiting missions and, within
six months of the closing date, submit Part II of the project completion
report.



- 25 -
D. Environmental Impact
3.17      The project will not have any negative impact oft the envitonment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project would be located in properly
designed laboratories which operate under standard safety requirements.
E. Impact on Women
3.18      The project would have little direct impact on the status of women.
Woman are poorly represented in the R&D sector in Korea, due largely to the
traditional reluctance of women to enter graduate programs in science and
technology.-  Iowever,- the trend is improving. --The- utputof women from
graduate programs in non-medical science and engineering programs increased
nearly four times between 1982 and 1989 although the numbers are still small--
1,005 in 1989 or 92 of total outputs. Some universities are now becoming more
sensitive to the need to increase the enrollment of women in science and
engineering programs. For example, the Korea Institute of Technology, which
is being assisted under the Bank's First Technology Advancement Project, has
introduced a program aimed at attracting more women students. This includes
visits by faculty to girls' high schools, information packages for parents and
student counsellors, and visits by female students to KIT.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The strengthening of KIST's research capacity would improve its
ability to support industry in developing advanced technologies thereby
reinforcing technology development, especially among SMIs, as the engine of
growth in the Korean economy. Opportunities for joint research efforts in
basic sciences would be enhanced through the strengthening of KBSC. This in
turn would lead to improved research coordination between institutions and a
more efficient utilization of resources for basic research. The strengthening
of NIRI would lead to the development and application of more rigorous
industrial standards which would contribute to raising the quality of
industrial products. This would be particularly beneficisl for exports.
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.



-~ ~~-Z -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATION       -
5.1       The Government has agreed to-the following:
(a) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.16);
(b) within six months of the closing date, Part II of the project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.16).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$60.- million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years. inc-luding.5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Ministry of Sclence and Technology
r    .           }                .         +     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nuclear Sdeaty As _ouw    a  1o
Ifts5pclor &nrwal 1-..
lanni=ga *                       R&D Coordinadon         .
Mar~~agsm.,w Office          Office
Af _     Planni and                      Coordator, Bast                               l.
aIomn             I                    c        .ns                 Pokcy P oanni               Bueaut
-4
I              |       <   ~~~~~~~~~Coodnatr,                   bdre             |I
MXanagmen    OIc       |             Maechanical and     l      H      T d   o tP lt      j;
Geea Affars    _aLegal Aals                       _         Coordinator,           _       Dlredor    M,
ONlsbn                    Olilber                      Eletrnis Eng Mnoe o 
Energy and                    *    (Orgnzfon under 11  _din#tatN  Control of MostX                  t>
NaturalResources.
* KAISt, KAERI. KIER, K8RI. MMU, ETRI.
(Subsidkary orgaizations to MOST)
KRICT, KGTRl. KIT, KOSEF
Cenral      i F    Nation  Scb                  D aeduk Science      *   Korea Science and Engineering Promntion Fourtation
Mweteorological   II l    at Me                  Town Admistation   | *   Korea Industrial Technolgy Promotln Socioty
OIndustIal Ted.wWo  Research Associations (23
*   Korea Federation of Scence and Technology Soieties (181)
*   Korea Tenology Development Coratlon
5K . . _



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Korea Institute of Science and Technology
[    Board of Trustees
I   .          I            I~~~~~~~~~A dio
Preddent
Korea Ocean R  a D Institute                                                          Sdence & trchnoiogy Policy Center
Systerns Engheering Reearch Instt te                   Vics President                          Genetit Engineering Center
Division of Research Planning    J
Division of MeWts                                            Office of Project Planning
Division of Ceramisn
Division of Polymer Scince & Engineering
Division of Chemidstry                                  ____________
Division of Applied Physics & Electronics
Division of Mechanical Engineering                           Division of Administation
Divson of Chemical Engheering
Office of Intemational
Cooperation & Public Relations
Loan Project
mIrplementabon Unit
Doping Control Center     j
.1 



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Korea Basic Science Center
( KOSEF Board of Trustees
KBSC Direcor       l
Operabonal Counal                                     t
Sub-Committees for.
Screening of
Equipment Requests
1st Instrument Division (Physbc5)
2nd Instrument Division (Chemistry)
3rd Instrument Division (Biology)
4th Instrument Division (Earth Science)
Administration Dvision
General Affairs Section
Accounting Secton
Constructon Secotio
Planning Secbon
Loan Plqect .        
Implementation Unit



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
National Industrial Research Institute
Minister of Trade
and Industry
Industrial Advancement 1
Administration
Director General NIRI
Factiity E-xpansion Advisoty Committee
Chemistry ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ . Det            .. 5 Diison
MachineryG gwon                                                                                        Division
Chemisnry l       ro?enpt.l           S                                                          HO
aneocam        Test Censer
Kyonggtery                                                                              Intallation .  Operat.o
Kusang wPonli
Cheungu
_________u _______g___a_                                                               FutuR e ProDevn apmoSt H.ection
Jeonstitute forCeramindstResearch                                                              Sec_i
Jenafn d Crmc Test Cne  _.;
Kyonggik         Cetr                                                                 Pntalanning &  S4reenngSetion |
Busan            (PITCS)                                                         eSeltionl                              
Cheju. 
|Future Developmoent Section |



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
Transportation      Civil            Consumable    Total Cost
Equipment     and Installation    works    O&M    Materials    Won M   US$ M
Korea Institute of Science
and Technology                   10,650              696              -    1,228      1,228-       13,802    19.4
Korea Basic Science Center        10,650              696          2,670    1,086      1,086        16,188    22.8
National Industrial Research
Institute                      21,300            1,377          1,945    2,166       2,166.      28,954    40.8
Baseline Cost               42,600            2,769          4,615    4,480       4,480-      58,944    83.0
Contingencies
Physical                        2,130               139            231      224        224         2.948    .4.1
Price increase                  2,294               203            244      423        423         3.587     5.1
Subtotal contingencies       4,424               342           475       647        647        6.535      9.2
Total Proiect Cost
Won million              47,024            3,111          5,090    5.127       5,127       65,479
US$ million                66.2              4.4            7.2       7.2        7.2                  92.2



-32-                                ANNEX 6
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Project ExPenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Wan million}          Total Cost
Schools                       911 --   Glt92-  92193  93194 -    Won- m   US$
Korea Institute of
Science and Technology      6,213      4,253      3,336     13,802       19.4
Korea Basic Science
Center                       7,13-6    4,359      4,693     16,188       22.8
National Industrial
Research Center             8,272    11,161       9,521     28,954       40.8
Baseline Cost              21,621    19,773    17,550       58,944       83.0
Contingencies
Physical                    1,081        989        878      2,948        4.1
Price increase                 442     1,241      1,904      3,587        5.1
Total Project Cost         23,144    22,003    20,332       65,479        9.2
Foreign Exchange           18,238    16,705    14,396       49,339       69.5



KOREA
THIRD TECHNCLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY  1990      1991         1992          1993         1994
BANK FY     91            92            2            3        95
OUARTER(CY) 3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  a          4
CIVIL WORKS
WORKING DRAWNGS AND SPECIFICATIONS
INVITATION FOR BID
BID EVALUATED                              _
CONTRACT AWARD                              _
CONSTRUCTION                                          - _       
INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT
PREPARATION OF EQUIPMENT LISTS
WRITING SPECIFICATIONS
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS
INVITATION FOR BID
BIDS EVALUATED                                       _      _       . 6
AWARD OF CONTRACTS                                    _
EQUIPMENT DELIVERED. INSTALLED & TESTED
WARRANTY PERIOD
LOAN PROCESSING & GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION
NEGOTIATIONS                                   *
BOARD PRESENTATION
LOAN SIGNING                                      A
EFFECTIVENESS
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE ADVERTISED
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE                                                                                             1!
PROJECT CLOSING DATE..       .
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT DUE DATE
- - -w47689                  -



ANNEX &
FOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Disbursements            -
IBRD Fiscal                       Disbursements                    Disbursement
Year and             Semester      Cumulative        as Z         profile /a
Semester             -      US$ million -----    of total              (2)
1992
1                     6.0 /b          6.0           10.0             1
2                     0.0             6.0           10.0             3
1993
1                    17.0            23.0           38.3             5
2                    19.0            42.0           70.0            10
1994
1                    10.0            52.0           86.7            23
2                     7.0            59.0           98.0            44
1995
1                     1.0           60.0           100.0            70
2                                                                   81
1996
1                                                                   92
2                                                                   97
1997
1                                                                  100
la Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
/b Initial deposit in Special Account.



-35-
ANNEX 9
Page I of 2
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.     Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1*   Introduction to Science and Technology - Republic of Korea, MOST, 1988
A-2*   Science and Technology Handbook, MOST, 1987
A-3*   A Study on the Long Term Development Plan of Graduate Education in the
Field of Science and Engineering in Korea, MOE, July 1985.
A-4*   Industrial and Technology Policy for the Sixth Five-year Plan Period,
Kyoung-Hwi Mihn, KIET, September 1985.
A-5*   Korea - Managing Industrial Transition, 2 vols. IBRD, March 1987
A-6*   Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982.
A-7*   Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea:  A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985.
A-8** Strategies and Policies of Science and Technology Development in Korea,
Hai-Sool Chin, MOST, February 1988.
A-9** Technology Policies and Planning, Republic of Korea, APCTT, 1986.
A-10** Promotion of Technology Transfer for Small and Medium Industry in
Korea, Han-choi Kang, KIET, 1989.
A-ll* Science and Technology in Korea, Hakze Chan, KAIST, September 14, 1988
A-12   Plan to Support Technology Development with an Emphasis on Small and
Medium Industry, MOST, 1990.
B.     Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1    KIST - Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Handbook, 1989.
B-2    Loan Request to IBRD, KIST, December 1989.
*  -   See Project File for the First Technology Advancement Project (Loan
3037-KO).
** -   See Project File for the Second Technology Advancement Project (Loan
3202-KO).



-36-
AhNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
B-3    Loan Request to IBRD, KBSC, January 1990.
B-4    NIRI - National Institute of Industrial Research, Handbook, undated.
B-5    Expansion Project for Test, Analysis and Assessment Facilities, NIRI,
February 1990.
B-6    Business Relevant Data for the IBRD Loan, _NIRI, February 1990.
C.     Selected Working Papers
C-1    IBRD Working Paper - Equipment



IBRD 22679
Si- -.3--                                                         -                                                      ..  
t~~~~~~~~~                                     3'                 3' -
St~~~ ~ ~ .,+-* 1' "                                                                                         1
f
7~~ ~       ~~~'   9 _)_ .  ..   3.y}  
h w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.
'*' "S   ON- -                                            N R    Ks Under   truction
CENTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvr
~~~~'~~~  2   _~                                                             -     Airports
ol      K.~~~~~~~~~~pcalCte
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~ ,-, nterainlBudr
/-/\ HEJu 5_   20t  4C 3&>   SC   CC '25                                            )
F 3se Chnz(JJiJ-$   -1                                                                             SC      IC        'C)f 
I p 1     ,    /       Y0% ,Y! SAri          
25h                       26                        77'                      '28                        '29 M1
CHOL   N                                                                       199C
</  Noidon >>                 ~~~~~K O  R E A
I                          <                               ~~~~~~~~THIRD TECHNOLOGY
t                              i*                         Z~~~~~~AVANCEMENT PROJECT
~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ Roilroods
1,. > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railrroads Ufndler Construction                                            3
-   nw,,^___,            s                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
Airr,arts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Speciol Cities
rze_ nw_                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
Ssn*__                    ~~~~~~~Cho*i                                                Infernotioniol Soundories
_  _            F   { MCH EJtJ                           D    W~~~~~~~~~~~  2    40   6C   SC   'X  '2D   42  -6C
\  S-o                           D~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 2a  so F  60          SC
I ,                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOByER 1990 



. .~ _                .                  .   .    _       ,BRD 22679
~~~~~~Ev   _ . _ . .,   .-                                                                            *3 1
,,~~~~~~~~~~~-                                   :       ,            a-3
-#                            t~~~~~~~~~~ 
1- 3s*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KO~~'F.-A ~A-SADVANCEMENT PRNJEC
- '- '                                                      Y\- Huchm -    Radroads
il't-* S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - alod nerCntut
4  Airports ~ ~ o~w
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seial.,    Cities
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                        -  Pro*vivnce SoundortehsnSzr 
oW~~~~~~~          ~~~~         --o^ e" ,  _- ' nentoa 8oudoi
Okk           tLenIiuK                                         K e  -< 
k-~~~~~~I4EJU,                      h       A        0f  Svl'_ CETE >t~  .~   >C   2*    4\
10 tf t CHCt,SNAAA 20 0n  C h                          loe
i                                               1                        9NOW  K O R E A
i                       <                              ~~~~~~~~THIRD TECHNOLOGY
i                                 \7~~~~~~O-                ADVA,NCEMENT PROJECT
.                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primcy Roods
- ~~~~ s                               * ~~~~~~~ | ~~Roilroctds             r
3 * s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroods Undr Construction
_                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rirrers
_   n"t_*                                                 '       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Special Cities
r:-74_                                                         -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundartes
~~~~^~~'-~~~*MO                                                         -  ---lnternohionol Boundories
_  >.          n   / MCHEJIJ}                        o~~~~~~~~~~ 2w  *0   6",50 IX  2C 52?
*25-       ,26-                     'S~~~~~~~I?7-           128.                    129,
OCrOBER IWO0



