Page  1
                                                     March 3, 1992
H.E. Rhee, Yong Man
Minister of Finance
Republic of Korea
Seoul Republic of Korea
     We refer to the Loan Agreement (Third Technology Advancement
Project) between the Republic of Korea (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
dated June 3, 1991.   We refer also to the letter from the Ministry
of Finance dated March 2, 1992, requesting the Bank for the
financing of Technical Assistance for Part A of the Project and
informing us that the name of National Industrial Research Institute
("NIRI") has changed to the National Industrial Technology Institute
("NITI").
     The Bank is pleased to inform you that, after due
consideration, it has agreed to the above request.  Therefore the
Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.    In Section 1.02, paragraph (c) the wording is deleted and
substituted by the following:
"(c)  "NIT I" means the National Institute of Technology and
Industry;"
     All references to "NIRI" in the Loan Agreement shall be
substituted by references to "NITI" accordingly.
2.    Part A of the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Category                Amount of the Bank                  % of
                        Allocated (Expressed                Expenditures
                        in Dollar Equivalent)               To be Financed
Part A: KIST
(1) Equipment and
    materials                 13,500,000                    100% of foreign
                                                            expenditures
                                                            100% of local
                                                            expenditures
                                                            (ex-factory cost)
                                                            and 65% of local
                                                            expenditures
                                                            for other items
                                                            procured locally
(2) Technical Assistance        1,000,000                   100% of foreign
    (a)  Overseas training                                  expenditures
         and consultants
         services
    (b)  Books and Journals      500,000                    100% of foreign
                                                            expenditures
3.    Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended
to read as follows:
"The carrying out of a program by KIST to improve the quality of its
research programs to enhance its ability to assist industry in
developing  advanced  technologies  through  (i)  acquisition  of
specialized equipment and consumable materials and (ii) overseas
training,  use of foreign experts and acquisition of books and
materials."
Page  2
     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments
by signing and dating the form of confirmation on the attached
duplicate letter and returning it to us.
                         Sincerely, yours,
                           Vineet Nayyar
                          Acting Director
                       Country Department 1
                   East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By
   Authorized Representative
Date  March 12, 1992
