Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17074-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT mI PROJECT
September 30, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Real (R$)
US$1.00      =     RS1.05
RS1,00      =     US$0.95
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Sao Paulo)
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ACRONYMS
BANESPA            (Sao Paulo State Bank)
BB                 Banco do Brasil / (Bank of Brazil)
CA                 Casa Agficola /(Municipal Office)
CATI               Coordenadoria de Assistincia Tecnica Integral
(Technical Assistance Coordinating Unit)
CC                 Conselho Consultivo / (Consultative Committee)
CETESB             (State Technological Company for Environmental Protection)
CMDR               Commisclo Municipal de Desenvolvimento Rural / (Municipal Microcatclument Commission)
CODASP             Companhia de Entrepostos e Annazens Gerais do Estado de Sdo Paulo
(Sao Paulo Agricultural Development Company)
CRDR               Commisdo Regional de Desenvolvimento Rural / (Regional Microcatchment Commission)
(Regional Technical Committee)
DDA                Departamento de Defesa Agropecudria / (Plant and Animal Protection Department)
DEXTRU             Divisao de Extensdo Rural / (Technical Assistance Department)
DSMM               Departamento de Sementes, Mudas e Matrizes
(Department for Quality Control of Seeds, Planting Material and Breeding Stock)
EDR                Escrit6rios de Desenvolvimento Rural / (Regional Rural Development Division)
IBRD               (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development)
IBGE               Funda,co Instituto Brasileiro de Geografla e Estadistica
ICB                Licita,cdo Internacional / (Intemational Competitive Bidding)
IP                 (Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and Pollution Control)
IPAE               Instituto de Pesquisa Aplicada / (Institute of Applied Research)
LUPA               Projeto de Levantamento Censitario de Unidades de Produ,cJo Agropecudria do Estado de Sdo Paulo
MERCOSUL           Mercado Comain del Sur/ (Southern Cone Common Market)
NCB                Licitafdo Nacional / (National Competitive Bidding)
PEC                Projeto de Emprendimento Comunitdrio / (Plan for Collective Activity)
PEMBH              Programa Estadual de Microbacias Hidrografi cas de Sdo Paulo
(State Program of Microcatchments)
PGM                Piano de Desenvolvimento Global deMicrobacias
(Microcatchment Development Plan)
PIP                Projeto Individual da Prpriedade
(Individual Farm Land Use Plans)
SAA                Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento
(Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply)
SMA                Secretaria de Meto Ambiente
(State Secretariat of Environment)
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
UGP                Unidade do Gerenciamento do Projeto
(Project Coordination Unit)
USP                Universidade Estadual de Sdo Paulo
(State University of Sao Paulo)
Vice President                  Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director                 Ms. Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager                    Ms. Graciela Lituma



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
SAO PAULO
Table of Contents
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                                             . . ......1
A. AGRICULTURE IN THE NATIONAL ECONOMY.............................................................
B. AGRICULTURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICiES . .....................................1
C. EXPERENCE WITH PAST BANK LENDING .................                                ..............................2
D. THE STATE OF SAO PAULO ................................................3
2. THIE  PROJECT  .................................................................................................................8
A. ORIGIN AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ..............................................8
B. PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICiARiES ...............................................9
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................                                               10
D. PROJECT DESCRPTION ...........................................                                                   10
Technology and Institutional Development .........................                     .................. 11
Adaptive Agricultural Research ...........................................                                14
Incentive Program  for Natural Resource Management and Conservation ......... 15
Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads ...................................................... 20
Training and Communuication ........................................................................... 21
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .............                       ............................ 22
E. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND ImPLEMENTATION .................................................... 24
F. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ............................................................................. 26
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................................................................. 31
H. PROJECT RISKS .............................................................................                      33
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............. 35
4. ANNEXES ...............................................................                                                    37
A. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
B. STRATEGY FOR IMPROVED NON-RURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
D. MONITORING TARGETS AND INDICATORS
Map: IBRD N 24504
fbc projed is basdon the findings of an apisl mission that visited So Paulo November 2 -16,1992 which was comprised of Messrs. Jean-Piare
Ddelle (Mision Lader), Marcelo Mender, Apriculturl Econoist (Contn) and Nestor Bagao lo, Land Management SpecialisI
(Comultant). A post-negotiations miiion took place from April 28 to May 9, 1997 and was conprised of MessrsMmes. Graciela Lituma (Mission
Leader), Vittorio Silvestri (FAO/CP), and he consultants Nestor Brgwolo (Land Management Specalist), Marta Iving (Envimnental Science
Specialist), Zander Navawo (Rural Sociologist), Francisco Hoyos (Roads Specialist) and Angel Malaxechevanria (Financial Analyst).






BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
SAO PAULO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   State of Sao Paulo
Guarantor:                  Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:           State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply (SAA)
Beneficiaries:              Farmers in about 1,500 microcatchments including a target
population of 90,000 farm families of which 85 percent have less
than 100 Ha.
Poverty:                    Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                     US$55 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayable over 15 years, on a fixed amortization schedule with
a 5-year grace period.
Commitment Fee:             0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:            Not applicable
Economic Rate of Return:    20%, for directly productive components activities
Staff Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1i074-BR
Map:                        IBRD No. 24504
Project Identification No.:    BR-PE-6474



Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
LIa          Foaieign         Total
(USS mill
Eaduiated Pmject Comb
Technology and Inittiowal Delpment          28.2          4.7           32.9
Adaptive Agricultural Research               2.6          0.4            3.0
Inctive foNr ahnaal Resou  Management       27.2          4.2           31.4
Conseratim
Erosion Control Works in Rural Roads        23.2          4.2           27.4
Taiinng andDieminatio                       10.4          1.1            11.5
Caordinatim and Adminisratio                 5.0          1.3            6.3
Total Baeline Cosb                             96.6         15.9           112.5
Phsica Cotigncies                            4.3          0.9            5.2
Price Cotingencies                           6.1          0.9            7.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            107.0         17.7           124.7
FINANCINGPLAN                                 Local        Foreign          Total
Sbi Paulo Swae Governmnent                  69.7          -             69.7"w
World Bank                                  37.3         17.7           55.0
TOTAL                                         107.0         17.7          124.7
Estimated Bank Disbursements
Fiscal Year    1998     1999    2000    2001        2002    20003    2004
Annual            2.0k     7.5      11.4     10.1      8.8      8.2      7.0
Cumulative        2.0      9.5     20.9     31.0      39.8     48.0     55.0
a/Including inital deposit of US$2.0 million into the Special Account



1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. AGRICULTURE IN THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
1.1   Throughout the postwar period and until the 1980s, the Brazilian economy grew at
an average annual rate of 90/o. Over the same period, the agricultural sector, although
achieving an average annual growth rate of about 4%, fell behind the outputs of both the
industrial and service sectors which increased at much faster rates. As a result, from 1950
to 1980, agriculture's share of total GDP declined from 25% to 10%. Agricultural
development prior to 1980 was led by the growth of non-traditional exports (mainly
soybean and citrus). Production increases came almost entirely from expansion into new
lands, although yield increases over the period were also significant. Growth was
particularly dynamic in the frontier states of the Center-West (Goias and Mato Grosso do
Sul) and parts of Minas Gerais.
1.2  In the early 1980s the economy slowed down, reflecting declining industrial
production and relative stagnation in agriculture. Expansion of the agricultural frontier
came to a virtual halt with the exception of certain areas in the North. Between 1980 and
1986, the total crop area grew at only 1.7% per year, and the output of many basic food
crops remained constant or rose only moderately (as in 1984 and 1985). Agricultural
export earnings showed virtually no growth, except for 1984 when coffee and
concentrated citrus exports were aided by favorable price movements.
1.3   From 1986 to 1991, agricultural growth rebounded strongly, but the sources of
growth appeared to be changing. With the recent introduction of new varieties made
possible by technological advances in agricultural research, and increased investment in
irrigation in some areas, yields of traditional export crops (cotton, tobacco and coffee) and
many food crops (rice and wheat) have increased significantly. Expansion of the
agricultural frontier has been giving way to intensification of production on existing farm
land. Between 1992 and 1996, the most successful crops have been sugarcane, citrus and
soybeans, while the production of cotton, rice, beans, maize, sorghum and coffee has
declined. The central and western states of the country (Goias and Mato Grosso do Sul)
continued to experience the strongest growth in the agricultural sector. By 1996, the
agricultural sector generated 23% of the total employment of the country and accounted
for about 0-11% of GDP.
B. AGRICULTURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
1.4   Government policies have had an important impact on the performance of
agriculture. Probably the most important action in this regard was Brazil's decision in the
postwar era to embark on an industrialization strategy based on import substitution. This
strategy was pursued through a variety of measures, including an overvalued currency,
restrictive trade policies and, from time to time, outright bans and quotas on agricultural



- 2 -
exports. The effect was implicitly to tax agriculture. But this era of massive government
intervention in agriculture is now over. The Government-initiated reforms in the late
1980s are being strengthened and extended by the present administration. The Bank has
supported these reforms in two ways. First, through its lending program, the Bank is
supporting the development of more efficient and modern systems of agricultural delivery
services with greater beneficiary and private sector participation, enhanced by privatization
and decentralization efforts. Second, the Bank has maintained an intensive policy dialogue
with policy-makers, academics and the private sector to extend the partial reforms in the
sector and prevent policy reversals.
1.5   While the Government policy agenda during the early 1990s continues to be
dominated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, policies with respect to agriculture,
rural poverty and the environment have been emphasized in recent years.  The
Government assigns high priority to protecting the environment, having become
increasingly aware of the effect that some agricultural policies were having on the
environment. In addition, farmers, faced with the increasing need to take advantage of the
opportunities created by the MERCOSUL, have begun to seek more cost-effective and
environmentally benign technologies and to intensify the use of existing farm land and
rural infrastructure. This trend is already evident in the country's major agricultural areas
in the South and the Southeast. There is growing interest in irrigation, soil conservation,
environmental protection, livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage,
and more widespread application of the results of agricultural research. The increasing
exposure of the agricultural sector to more open markets, combined on the one hand with
Government initiatives to withdraw various fiscal incentives that encouraged expansion
into areas less suitable from an agro-ecological standpoint, and on the other declining
productivity due to widespread soil erosion, have created an urgent need for the sector to
increase its efficiency by developing more land-intensive and environmentally benign
production methods.
C. EXPERIENCE WIfH PAST BANK LENDING
1.6   The Bank has been involved in improved natural resources management and
micro-watershed development projects in southern Brazil since 1989, when it approved
the Parana Land Management I Project (Loan 3018-BR for US$63.0 million). In July
1991, the Bank approved the second project in the neighboring state of Santa Catarina,
the Land Management II Project (Loan 3160-BR for US$33.0).  These projects,
implemented with the full participation of local farmers--organized around
microcatchments--and with active participation of municipal governments and the private
sector, validated the microcatchment as an effective unit for planning and implementing
improved natural resource management activities. They have served as excellent models
for projects in different parts of Latin America and Africa, and for two additional projects
approved by the Bank in Brazil in recent years, the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural
Resources Management Project for the State of Parana (Loan 4060-BR for US$175.0



million) approved on June 27, 1996, and the Natural Resources Management and Rural
Poverty Project for the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Loan 4148-BR for US $100.0
million) approved on July 11, 1997.
1.7   The Parana Land Management I Project, which closed in March 1997, has
effectively supported the State of Parana's effort to reduce soil degradation and erosion
and improve soil fertility, moisture and storage capacity by introducing innovative
technical approaches for economically viable investments in soil conservation and
management. As a result, production of major crops and income of farm households have
improved significantly.' More importantly, not only did participating farmers assimilate
and integrate the project's soil management techniques, but, through the demonstration
effect of these techniques, farmers in the region followed their example and demanded
other States to formulate similar projects. The Land Management I project has recently
been identified as one of the ten best projects currently financed by the Bank.
1.8   The implementation of the Land Management II Project, having suffered an initial
two-year setback due to delays in loan effectiveness, accelerated once the project concept
was disseminated at the local and microcatchment levels due to farmers' very positive
response to the project strategy. The Mid-Term evaluation carried out during 1996
confirmed that a number of project-promoted soil and water conservation practices are
substantially above appraisal estimates. Project achievements as of today have also
demonstrated that the natural resources depletion process resulting from inadequate land
husbandry could be reversed in a relatively short period of time. The project methodology
and its results have motivated the Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development to
elaborate a sustainable, multisectoral rural development strategy, with participation of
representatives of all sectors of society, at local, municipal and regional levels. However,
in spite of these advances, the project will need an additional year to make up for the start-
up delay so as to fully achieve its objectives and make full use of available financial
resources.
D. THE STATE OF SAo PAULO
1.9   Location and Natural Features. Sio Paulo, the second largest of the four states
of the Southeast Region, with a total area of 248,600 km2 (3% of Brazil), is bordered by
the States of Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul and Parana, and the Atlantic Ocean. Its
territory includes four main regions: (a) the coastal area, a narrow band of sedimentary
soils along the 600 kIm coast; (b) the planalto atldntico, an area with broken topography
and altitudes ranging from 300 m to 1,000 m; (c) the peripheral depression, a densely
Preliminary estimates on the microcatchment areas benefited under the project indicate productivity
increases ranging from 10 to 40%/o while the preliminary results on the 16 pilot microcatchment areas
monitored under the project indicate a reduction of about 500/. of the turbidity rate measured at the
microcatchment level over a 24-month period, and reduction of up to 50% in road maintenance cost.



-4-
populated narrow strip of land between 500 m and 700 m in altitude, predominantly
industrial; and (d)the planalto ocidental (60% of the State's total area), the most
intensively cultivated area on sedimentary and sandstone-derived soils. Its location
between latitudes 190 and 250 south makes Sao Paulo suitable for both tropical and
temperate agriculture. Most annual rainfall, which ranges from 1,200 mm to 2,000 mm,
falls in summer, often in the form of intense storms. Medium fertility soils (such as
latosols, and podzols) represent 77% of the state's soils.
1.10 Economic and Social Conditions. Sao Paulo is Brazil's richest and most
populated state, currently with 35% of the national GDP and 22% of the total population.
Despite the state's huge industrial sector (45% of the national industrial output), which
makes it the nations economic powerhouse, agriculture remains important; it contributes
nearly 15% to national agricultural output (Annex A, Table A.1) and 4% to the state's
GDP, and generates about 15% of the state's employment. Currently 90/% of Sao Paulo's
economically active population of about 14.3 million lives in rural areas, less than one-
third of the figure for 1960.
1.11 Land Tenure, Use and Production. Sao Paulo's land ownership pattern is one of
medium concentration in the Brazilian context (Annex A, Table A.2). Farms under 100 ha
(88% of all farms) occupy 29%/o of total farmland, and farms over 1,000 ha (less than one
percent of all farms) cover 28% of total farmland. In 1986 about 69%/o of the 282,500
rural properties were owner-operated. At present 6% of farmland is planted to perennial
crops, 21% to annual crops, 42% is under improved or natural pasture, and 17% is under
native or planted forest; the balance represents uncultivable land. In addition to being the
main producer of citrus and derivatives (84% of national output), the State is also the
major producer of peanuts (89%), sugarcane (54%), onions (26%), tomatoes (36%),
potatoes (23%), eggs (28%), and the second largest producer of cotton, beans, sorghum,
grapes, milk and honey. It also contributes a substantial share of the national production
of coffee (14%), maize (13%), beef (20%) and poultry meat (15%). The State has in use
24% of Brazil's total number of tractors, and its consumption share of inputs is 30% for
fertilizers and 36% for pesticides.
1.12  Agriculture and Natural Resources Protection Services. The State Secretariat
of Agriculture and Supply (SAA) is responsible, through four coordinating bodies and two
decentralized agencies, for sectoral planning, agricultural research and all government
support services, including rural extension. The four coordinating units are: the
Agricultural Research Coordinating Unit, the Technical Assistance Coordinating Unit
(CATI); the Input Supply Coordinating Unit, and the Socio-Economic Coordinating Unit.
The latter is responsible through its Agriculture Economics Institute for collecting and
updating all socio-economic data.  The Agricultural Research Coordinating Unit
encompasses five specialized research institutes: the Campinas Agronomic Institute, the
Zootechnology Institute, the Biological Institute for Plant and Animal Health, the Food



- 5 -
Technology bntitute, and the Fishery Institute. CATI2, which was recently restructured to
increase its efficiency and decentralize its services, provides extension services to farmers
with 1,180 field extensionists distributed among 40 Regional Rural Development Divisions
(EDR) and 575 Municipal Offices (CAs) (chart B.2). CATI coordinates four departments:
(i) the technical assistance department (DEXIRU) which coordinates with the Socio-
Economic Coordinating Unit and provides technical back-up to the EDR's extensionists;
(ii) the department for quality control of seeds, planting material and breeding stock
(DSMW) which also undertakes applied research; (iii) the plant and animal protection
department (DDA); and (iv) the training and communications department. It also has the
Administrative Center. The two decentralized SAA entities are the Sao Paulo Agricultural
Development Company (CODASP) which, through its four regional offices, provides
heavy machinery services to municipalities, and the Sao Paulo Storage Company,
responsible for government storage. These two companies are in the process of being
privatized.
1.13  Farm credit is channeled through the Sao Paulo State Bank (BANESPA), the State
Savings Bank, the Bank of Brazil, and many private banks. As would be expected in a
state with highly developed agriculture, producer cooperatives and the private sector in
general are well organized and handle most of the input supply, output storage and
marketing. The private sector also provides a large share of technical assistance to
farmers: the 170 producer cooperatives, grouping 160,000 members, have some 700 field
extensionists, and there are about 130 private agricultural "planning" companies with some
250 extension advisory staff. In addition, a number of municipalities have their own
agricultural departments.
1.14  Three other state secretariats are directly involved in the protection of natural
resources: (a) the State Secretariat of Environment (SMA), through its Environmental
Protection Coordinating Unit, and through two decentralized agencies, the Foundation for
Forest Conservation and Production and the State Technological Company for
Environmental Protection, responsible for monitoring land use control and reforestation
programs and enforcing environmental state law; (b) the State Secretariat of Science and
Technology; and (c) the State Secretariat of Energy and Sanitation. The latter is more
specifically involved in water conservation, storage and pollution control. The Water and
Electrical Energy Department within SES is responsible in particular for planning and
coordinating water resource studies and establishing water conservation policies.
1.15 State's Past Experience in Agricultural Development and Soil Conservation.
Over the past 50 years Sio Paulo's agriculture has changed from a pioneering phase to
become settled, increasingly technically advanced, and highly commercial. The great
majority of the state's 282,500 farms are now partially or fully mechanized. Animal
2 Created by Decree N0 48.133 of June 20, 1967, and restructured under Decree N° 41.608 of February
24, 1997.



-6-
traction is increasiny being superseded. Manual cultivation, still common in other states,
is rare.
1.16  Intensification of agriculture has brought about increasing pressure on natural
resources. Sio Paulo's forests, which originally covered over 65% of its total area, now
extend to only about 11% (2.8 million ha); 7% (1.8 million ha) is native forest found on
the coastal ridges of the Serra do Mar and Serra Mantiqueira. Cultivable soils cover 62%
of the state area, but nearly all are of only moderate quality, and large areas have been
under continuous cultivation for a generation or more. The familiar symptoms of land
degeneration are becoming an increasing concern to farmers and the state government:
loss of soil structure, compaction, surface sealing and crusting, excessive rainfall runoff
sheet and gully (vo,orocas) erosion, flooding, silting of riverbeds and reservoirs, rising
costs of production as lost nutrients have to be replaced, generally declining growth rates
in yields of main crops such as cotton, soybean, sugarcane, and citrus (Annex A, Table
A.3) and, as a consequence, lowered farm profitability.
1.17 Growing concern for these problems led Sio Paulo in 1986 to launch a study
under the coordination of the Electrical Energy Department, to map the erosion risk in the
watershed of the Peixe-Paranapanema River which covers about one-third of the state
area, and to evaluate erosion damage and its impact on the region. In 1997, it also created
the Water Resources Council,3 with conditions for a decentralized State Water Resource
Manaement System, while the SAA started, on a pilot scale, the State Mlcrocatchment
Program (PEMBH) based on the microcatchment (microbacia hidrografica) approach to
soil conservation, similar to the one initiated in 1983 in the neighboring State of Parana
(para 1.6). As a complement to these initiatives, in 1988 the State promulgated the Land
Use and Conservation Law4. Since then, 122 microcatchments, selected from among Sao
Paulo's 40 EDRs, have been supported through incentive programs aimed primarily at
promoting mechanical (mainly terracing) soil conservation practices. The recommended
works, although planned at the microcatchment level, have been undertaken, for the most
part, on an individual basis and without sufficient community participation. In addition,
not only was the pilot too small to have a demonstration effect at the state level but, most
importantly, the Land Use and Conservation Law was not regulated until April 7, 19975
and therefore it could not be enforced.
1.18 The improved land management practices theoretically available to Sio Paulo's
farmers are not yet used for the most part. This has been partly due to the legacy of the
3 Decree N0 27.576 of November 11, 1997, expanded by Decree N' 32.954 of February 7, 1991. Since
then, basin comnuittees for all but two state water basing have been created.
4  Law N0 6.171 of July 4, 1988 was amended by Law N0 8.421 of November 1993 as a condition to
negotiae the loan.
5  Decree NP 41.719 of April 16, 1997.



-7-
pioneering past, when exhausted land could readily be replaced by the clearing of new
areas, and partly due to the lack of advice to farmers on the integrated and interdependent
nature of the remedies which are recommended; public and private extension is still mainly
based on individual commodities or inputs. In spite of a growing demand from farmer
communities and local authorities for an expanded PEMBH, lessons learned underline the
need to (a) intensify community environmental awareness and participation in
environmental protection at the microcatchment level; (b) change the philosophy of
traditional agricultural extension programs toward natural resource management and
sustainable rural development strategies, emphasizing participatory planning
methodologies; (c) increase research to adapt soil and moisture conservation techniques to
various local communities; (d) improve the targeting, transparency and effectiveness of
state incentive programs to promote on-farm land management, soil conservation, and
pollution control activities; and (e) enhance enforcement of the recently regulated State
Soil Conservation Law. The State of Sao Paulo has quite an enterprising farming
community interested in improving land management. The private sector is heavily
involved in the supply of inputs, machinery, seeds and planting material, and in associated
research and extension, but is mainly based on commodity-based services. The project
will complement these efforts by undertaking an integrated approach towards natural
resource management at the grassroots level, directed mainly to the more vulnerable areas
and population.



-8-
2. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGINAND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1   The Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil, which was discussed by the Executive
Directors on June 12, 1997, places poverty reduction and equitable growth as its central
objectives. It aims at supporting (i) structural reforms to consolidate stabilization and
growth to set the stage for private sector-led growth; (ii) poverty alleviation through
broad-based growth and targeted health, education, and rural and urban programs;
(iii) promotion and financing of infrastructure expansion; and (iv) promotion of
environmentally sustainable development. Soil erosion problems in the mechanized South,
Southeast and Central-West threaten to undermine past efficiency gains on the country's
most productive farm lands and to seriously affect the equilibrium of local ecosystems
through pollution of water sources and sedimentation of rivers. In addition, a significant
number of small farmers are located in zones with the highest susceptibility to erosion.
Through its support for the proposed project, the fifth in a series of pioneer state projects,
the Bank will be instrumental in helping the State of Sao Paulo to develop innovative and
economically viable investments in soil conservation, water pollution control and overall
land management to implement a decentralized and transparent natural resource
management policy.
2.2   The proposed project had its origin in the alarming conclusions of the Peixe-
Paranapanema River study (para 1.17), confirmed by Sao Paulo farmers' increasing
concern about the most obvious symptoms of soil erosion such as sheet and gully erosion
and silting of river beds and reservoirs.  Recognizing the effectiveness of the
mnicrocatchment strategy being tested in the State, and applied more extensively in
neighboring states, to arrest the serious and increasing erosion problem affecting a large
portion of its territory, the State Government sought Bank support to finance the
proposed project. The project was appraised by the Bank in November 1992 and
negotiated in February-March 1994. However, due mainly to the financial difficulties
prevailing in the State at that time, the project could not be presented to the Board. Soon
after the State concluded its debt restructuring with the Federal Government, and at the
request of the Government, a post-negotiation mission took place in May 1997. While the
priority of the project was confirmed by the Bank and the Government, there was a need
to adjust the project to reflect: (a) the institutional, economic, and political changes that
occurred in the State since project negotiations; (b) the lessons learned from implementing
similar projects in the neighboring states of Parana and Santa Catarina (paras. 1.7-1.8);
and (c) the experience gained by the state from implementing the PEMBH in a limited
number of microcatchments while awaiting Bank financing (para 1.18). In particular,
there was a need for greater transparency and decentralization of project activities.
Renegotiation of the proposed project took place from September 8 to 12, 1997.



-9 -
B  PRoJEcT AREA AND BENEFICIARIEs
2.3    The proposed project will include about 1,500 microcatchments covering an area
of about 4.5 million ha, to be selected among the State's 40 EDR The project will benefit
about 90,000 farms, 85% of them with holdings of less than 100 ha, representing 30%
of the state's fanmers. It will concentrate its efforts in highly eroded areas or those highly
susceptible to erosion which at the same time present the highest concentration of poverty.
To that end, each EDR has been ranked based on two factors: (a) susceptibility to soil
erosion6, a coefficient which takes into  consideration potential for erosion, soil
degradation expectation, existing erosion, and concentration of small and medium farmers
in the region, and level of farmers' response to the pilot program; and (b) concentration of
poverty7, a coefficient that measures the concentration of families with less than two basic
salaries per month. Municipalities within each region, and microcatchments in each
municipality, will be selected by the Regional Rural Development Councils (CRDR) and
the Municipal Rural Development Councils (CMDR) respectively, based on criteria
specified in the Project Implementation Manual Operational Manual (para 2.10 and Annex
B). These organizations will be the focal point for planning and implementation of project
activities. All 40 CRDRs and 288 of the 646 CMDRs have now been created and are in
operation. Project intervention will require the existence of a CMDR, and the project will
assist in the creation of such entities..
Table 2.1 Project Interventio by Priority Areas
Piorty            No. of            No. of          % of Total
Area          Municipalities  Mlcrocatchments    Microcatchments
1                 310             1,050               70.0
2                 234               405               27.0
3                 102               45                 3.0
Total               646             1,500              100.0
6   Based on a technical survey carried out in 1992 by the Institute of Technology Research as the basis
for the formulation of the project.
7   Based on information extracted from "Conjuntura Alimentaria" prepared by the SAA, and based on
information from "Mapa da Fome" of the IPAE, Instituto de Pesquisa Aplicada.
8   Regional and Municipal Rural Development Councils were created by Decree N" 40.103 of May 25,
1995 and modified with Decree 41.718 of April 16, 1997, as part of the Integrated Agricultural and
Supply System seeking to decentralize government services with full participation of beneficiaries.



-10-
C. PROJECT OBJECriVES
2.4   The objectives of the proposed project will be to increase and sustain agricultural
production, productivity and farm incomes and assist in the conservation of natural
resources by: (a) promoting the adoption of sustainable, modem forms of land
management and soil, water and forest conservation planned and implemented at the
microcatchment level and with full involvement of the farming community; (b) developing
community environmental awareness and participation in environmental protection efforts;
(c) increasing the extent and duration of vegetative soil cover, thus better protecting the
soil against sealing under intense summer rainfill; and (d) improving internal soil structure
and drainage, thus increasing water infiltration, and safely disposing of any remaining
runoff. The results will be increased farm profitability, and reduced loss of top soil, silting
of reservoirs and stream beds, floods, destruction of rural roads, falling water tables,
poliution of water sources and depletion of natural resources. The project will also
strengthen the State of Sao Paulo's capacity to implement more efficiently an expanded
natural resource management and conservation program.
D. PRoJEcT DESCRIPTION
2.5   Building on the model developed for previous projects in this series (paras. 1.6-
1.8), and on theV State's PEMBH pilot experience (paras. 1.17-1.18), the proposed project
strategy will promote the adoption of integrated measures for natural resource
management and conservation using the microcatchment area as the unit for participatory
planning, monitoring and collective implementation. This participatory philosophy will
include farmers, local authorities, and private and public entities, and will be supported by
an effective incentive program and trained extension agents. The design of the State
Government's intervention at the microcatchment level is based on the proven benefits of
collective and properly planned action in soil erosion control and other conservation and
management techniques, while it also recognizes that economic benefits derived from
sound conservation practices are captured not only by the individual farmers but also by
the community at large.
2.6   The proposed project will include six components: (a) a Technology and
Institutional Development component, which will finance (i) Rural Extension; (ii) Rural
Organization; and (iii) Agro-Ecological Mapping at the microcatchment level; (b) an
Adaptive Agricultural Research component; (c) an Incentive Program for Natural
Resource Management and Conservation component, which will finance:
(i) Environmental Education; (ii) Incentives Fund for Soil Management and Conservation
and Pollution Control, (iii) Incentive for Recovery of Degraded Lands; (iv) Reforestation;
and (v) Enforcement of the Soil Use Law and of the above-mentioned Project Incentives;
(d) Erosion Control Works in the Rural Roads component, which is an integral part of the
microcatchment interventions; (e) Training and Dissemination; and (f) a Project



- 11 -
Coordination and Administration component, which will finance (i)rmonitoring and
evauation, and (ii) Internal and External Auditing
Technology and Instonld Development (2& 8% of total costs)
2.7   This component will facilitate the implementation of the project's technical
strategy and provide technical assistance to farmers to encourage their adoption of the
recommended natural resource management practices.  It will aim  to develop
microcatchment land users' awareness and technical knowledge to improve natural
resource management and promote active participation of the farmers and their families in
the planning and execution of their programs for improved land management and soil
conservation, through the financing of the following subcomponents: (a) Rural Extension;
(b) Rural Orgaiization; and (c) Agro-ecological Mapping.
2.8   Rural Extension: (21.4% of total cost). Implementation of this subcomponent
will be the responsibility of CATI's Extension Service through the CAs, while technical
assistance to microcatchment farmers will be provided from four main sources: CATI's
extension officers, technical staff of participating municipal governments, private
extensionists from producers' cooperatives or associations, and private agricultural
planning firms. The project will encourage and bring about a new form of agricultural
extension that involves methodological modifications of the current product-focused
extension, towards one focused on the microcatchment productivity systems in which the
fnailies and rural communities are active participants. In order to seek greater overall
efficiency, cost reduction and decentralization of the public system, a key objective of the
project-supported rural extension subcomponent will be to promote more active
beneficiary participation using the microcatchment as a working unit. To that end, the
project will provide operational and technical guidelines and intensive training to all
extension staff including municipal and private extensionists, to transform traditional
extension programs into modem programs of sustainable development.
2.9   To ensure that the project achieves its main objectives, it will be essential that the
agricultural community and the public at large understand the technical strategy of the
project.  Therefore, in its initial stages the project will provide for an intensive
dissemination campaign (para. 2.30).  CATI extensionists will be responsible for
promoting farmers' participation and ensuring the formation of the CMDR in
municipalities where this committee has not yet been formed, and of producers'
associations in project microcatchments. They will also be responsible for identify"ing the
farmers' organizations and informal farmer leaders and private technical assistants who
will be trained to serve as facilitators in the implementation of the project. The selection
of the municipalities to participate in the program will be the responsibility of the CRDR,
while the microcatchments within particular municipalities will be selected by the CMDR,
based on objective criteria as specified in the Implementation Manual (Annex B). Prior to
initiating project activities in a selected municipality, the latter will enter into an agreement



- 12 -
with SAA specifying, inter alia, its commitment to implement the project in accordance
with the Project Implementation Manual, including maintenance of roads rehabilitated
under the project (para. 2.29), and to monitor implementation of improved natural
resource management practices at the microcatchment level. The agreement to be signed
between these two institutions was approved by Decree N° 41.990 of July 23, 1997 and is
part of the Implemetation Manual. Once the agreement is signed, a participatory
socioeconomic survey of each new microcatchment will be conducted under the
coordination of the project extensionists. In areas in which there is no CA extensionist
available, the project will contract private extensionists with the participation of the
CMDR and the microcatchment association. It is estimated that about 150 of the 300
extensionists required under the project will be hired under these municipal arrangements.
2.10  Based on the results of a participatory socioeconomic and agro-ecological survey
to be carried out under the responsibility of the project extensionist9, and on the
agroecological maps to be produced under the project (para. 2.13, 2.14), the project
extensionist, together with the microcatchment beneficiaries, will prepare a mutually-
agreed Microcatchment Development Plan (PGM) which identifies the principal
agronomic and environmental problems and proposes solutions through collective land
and water management activities. The PGM will set technical targets for all community
works and interventions recommended at the farm-level and will be supported by
individual farm land-use plans (PIPs) and by plans for collective activities (PECs) when
applicable (para 2.22). It will also identify any recommended intervention that will require
environmental licensing. The project extensionist, assisted by the EDR and the Project
Administration Unit (UJGP) (para. 2.32), will seek the environmental license for the PGM
as a wholel0. The PGM will then be submitted to the CMDR for its appreciation and
forwarded to the CRDR and UGP for approval (paras. 2.36-2.38). Once the PIPs and
PECs have been approved, farmers and associations will be required to sign contracts with
CATI to receive project financial benefits (paras. 2.20-2.25). The PGM for each
microcatchment will follow technical and procedural guidelines provided in the
Implementation Manual prepared by CATI with substantial input from research entities,
universities and progressive farmers to orient and integrate project interventions at the
microcatchment level. It identifies recommended technologies for the most common
problems currently identified in the microcatchment project area (Annex B).  The
Implementation Manual (Technical and Operational) originally approved by SAA
Resolution N0 6171 of July 4, 1994 has been extensively reviewed and revised to take into
account lessons learned during the implementation of the Sao Paulo pilot and the projects
9  Field suvey will be complemented with information from the Projeto de Levantamento Consit6rio
de Unidades de Produftlo Agropecu6ria do Estado de Sao Paulo (L UPA) of April 26, 1995 and
Survey of the Agricultural Productive Units of the State of Sao Paulo carried out by CATI and SAA
during 1995-1996.
10 Joint Resolution SMA/SAA-4 of April 4, 1997 regulates the environmental licensing under the
PEMBH.



- 13 -
in the neighboring States of Parana and Santa Catarina (para. 2.2). The revised version of
the Manual was approved with SAA Resolution N 4 of September 19, 1997. Assurances
have been obtained from the State Government that: (a) the Implementation Manual
will be followed by project staff, extensionists, technicians, CRDR, CMDR and
municipalities while implementing project-related activities, and regularly updated in
agreement with the Bank; (b) prior to initiating project activities in a selected municipality,
SAA and the municipal government will enter into an agreement for the implementation of
all aspects of the project; and (c) prior to any on-farm project intervention, the farmer
and/or farmers' association will enter into an agreement with SAA for such
implementation (para. 3.2 (a)). Models of such agreements are part of the Implementation
Manual.
2.11   The work of project extension agents is central to the successful implementation of
the projects technical and operational strategies. In addition to providing technical
assistance to producers, extensionists will act as executive secretaries of the CMDRs and
will support the implementation of other components by assisting with the organization of
farmers' associations, testing and dissemination of adaptive research, the promotion of
environment-related activities, the preparation of PIPs and farmers' applications of project
incentives, and the planning and implementation of road improvement activities. The
project will provide for orientation meetings and field excursions to transfer and
demonstrate recommended technology and project objectives to benefiting farmers. CATI
extensionists, jointly with municipal extensionists, will provide active assistance and
training in conservation techniques to farmers' associations in each new microcatchment
area during the first three years, and follow-up assistance and monitoring for two years
thereafter.  CATI extensionists and municipal extensionists will provide individual
assistance to small-scale farmers as available capacity permits. Private extensionists and
private agricultural planning firms will provide complementary assistance to their
respective clients, principally medium- and large-scale farmers, at the individual farm level.
2.11  To accomplish these activities, the subcomponent will finance: (a) vehicles, computer
equipment, and appropriate field equipment for CATI's extension staff assigned to project
activities; (c) incremental operating costs for about 150 CATI professionals; and (d) services
contracted out to some 150 extensionists to be recruited by selected municipalities with the
participation of farmers' associations.
2.12 Rural Organization: (2.9% of total cost). The existence of strong farmers'
associations within a microcatchment is of strategic importance for the implementation of
the project concept. It will help to ensure the continuity of actions after the life of the
project, as well as to achieve the component's decentralization and efficiency objectives.
Therefore, under this subcomponent the project will provide up to US$3,500 per
association to finance selective administrative and managerial equipment (including office
equipment, microcomputers, etc.) and consultant services to strengthen the institutional
capacity of farmers' associations. To access such benefits, associations will: (a) have to be



- 14 -
formally constituted; (b) have at least 70% of its members within the microcatchment
benefiting from the project; (c) have been in the program, and implementing the activities
caUed for in the PGM, for at least one year; and (d) have prepared a project justifying the
requested services and approved by at least 70%  of its members.  The project
Administration Unit (UGP) within CATI (para. 2.32) will be responsible for the
implementation of this subcomponent with the assistance of the EDRs, project
extensionists, and CMDR, as described in the Project Implementation Manual.
2.13 Agro-ecological Mapping: (4.5% of the totil cost). A set of maps will be
produced under this subconponent, which will constitute key technical instruments to
field extensionists in soil classification and land use planning, and up-to-date resource
information to the state technicians and the farmer community. Five maps will be produced
for each microcatchment to be benefited under the project. They will be a basic technical input
for the strategic planning of activities to be developed in each microcatchment under the PGM
(para. 2.10) and will be used, in particular, for environmental education, recommendation of
more benign agncultural practices, recommended changes in land use and in the production
system, selection of degraded areas to be recovered, identification of the segments of roads to
be rehabilitated, and for enforcement of land use laws. The maps to be prepared under this
subomponent are a map of the municipality, idetifyg the location of the microcatchment
with reference to the municipajity, and the following microcatchment maps: (a) a topographical
map; (b) a soils map; (c) land tenire structure; and (d) an analytical map of environmental risk.
These maps are descnbed in the Project Implementation Manual.
2.14 Implementation of this subcomponent will be the responsibility of CATI's regional
technical unit under direct supervision of the Technical Unit of the UGP (para. 2.37).
However, during the first two years of the project, the production of these maps wili be
contracted to private firms while CATI's regional technical staff is being trained. This
subcomponent will finance vehicles and field equipment for 40 regional technical units,
consultant services for the production of the maps during the first two years of the project;
and incremental recurrent costs for the 40 regional technical units that will be incorporated
gradually into the program.
Adaptive Agricultural Research (2.6% of total cost)
2.15  The principal objective of the research component is to endorse the project's
technical strategy by developing or adapting adequate technological solutions for problems
identified by the farming community at the microcatchment level. The component will test
and demonstrate the effectiveness of existing technology (Annex B, Table B.3) in soil
conservation, land management and pollution control, and will generate new applied
technology suitable for different types of soil and agroeconomic conditions. In response
to the project's target population and to amplify the demonstration effect, emphasis will be
placed on executing research trials on the property of small-scale farmers. To this end, the
project will finance some 40 research projects and about 270 adaptive research trials.



- 15 -
Efforts will be centered mainly on: soil management practices, rational use of inputs and
residual disposal, focusing on combinations of soil preparation methods, mnimum- and
no-tillage techniques, crop rotations, green manuring, soil fertility, soil cover practices,
integrated pest management, sustainable production systems for small farmers, crop
diversification with alternative annual and perennial crops; waste disposal; integrated pest
management; and improved pasture management, among others.
2.16 The Agricultural Adaptive Research Unit within the UGP (para. 2.32) will be
responsible for implementing and monitoring the adaptive research program. This unit
will be assisted by an Adaptive Research Committee, comprised of five highly qualified
researchers, two from the SAA and three from the State Universities. This Committee,
together with the Adaptive Research Unit, will: identify research projects based on
demands coming from the benefiting microcatchments and EDRs; identify prospective
researchers; review research proposals; monitor their implementation; and evaluate results.
Applied research projects will be carried out by various research institutes contracted out
by the UGP to public and private research institutes, universities and other competent
public or private entities. Research trials will be carried out by the project extensionists
under the direct supervision of individual researchers from either CATI or SAA, or
contracted out as required, and will be under the supervision of the Adaptive Research
Unit with assistance from the EDRs and project extensionists. The proposed research
program will be demand-driven and participatory: the evaluation of on-going trials and the
planning of annual programs will be discussed with farmers' representatives, extensionists
and representatives of private and public research institutions at regional- and state-level
workshops organized by the UGP. Research results will be transferred to extensionists
and farmers through seminars and field days and brochures, organized by CATI with the
collaboration of the research entities and or individuals responsible for the particular
projects. Selection criteria to evaluate the research as well as its operational procedures
are part of the Implementation Manual.
2.17 To carry out the aforementioned tasks, the project will finance: (a) contracting of
specialized services for specific research projects, specific field experiments, socio-
economic and soil surveys; (b) infrastructure, field equipment and inputs for research
trials; and (c) incremental operating costs to accompany the field trial.
Incentive Program for Natural Resource Management and Conservation (27% of total
costs)
2.18  The main objective of this component will be to induce and accelerate the adoption
of improved natural resource management and conservation techniques by
microcatchment communities. To that end, through this component the project will:
(i) develop community environmental awareness and participation in environmental
protection through a decentralized program of environmental education; (ii) stimulate an
early and integrated adoption of improved natural resource management and conservation



- 16-
techniques, through the provision of incentive grants on a demonstration basis, in
particular m soil and water conservation, recovery of degraded lands and reforestation of
areas, mainly on steeper slopes and strips along water courses, and (iii) enforce the land
use and conservation legislation. This component will promote the adoption of the
recommended practices in the PGM through an integrated program of environmental
education and incentive grants for small- and medium-size farms and a program to enforce
correct use of the natural resources. The design of the incentive grants reflects the fact
that economic benefits derived from sound conservation practices are captured not only by
the individual farmers but also by the community as a whole. The maximum grant per
beneficiary will be US$3,000 including individual and collective project incentives.
Talk 2.2 Clmdiccad of RaI P?rodn
CATEGORY                                   CRITERIA
maH1 Prodhwer                   *  Exploits up to 50 ha
*  80% offarm icome deived from agncultural ativities
*  Atthe mot, 2% laborers
* Lives on the fam or in the neighboring municipality
Medium Prodocr                  *  Exploits fiom 51 to 200 ha
*  Withlesn 50 ha but does not meett ewiteria to quaifyas a mna
Lre Producer                    *  More than 200 ha
2.19   Environmental Education: (0.6% of total cost). The environmental education
activities of the project will contribute to the sustainability of project interventions. It will
induce a change in social behavior with respect to the use and conservation of natural
resources by creating suitable environmental awareness in the microcatchment community
and among the public at large. The subcomponent's methodology will be based on
decentralized actions and will reinforce project activities at the field level. The project's
environmental education will be directed toward microcatchment farmers and associated
communities. It will support the project's microcatchment activities and technical strategy
and will fall under the responsibility of the project extensionist, with support from
environmental monitors identified in each microcatchment by their respective communities
and trained under the project. They will be supervised by the head of the Environmental
Unit within the UGP (para. 2.32). With the assistance of the environmental monitor and
the CMDR, the project will also include support to formal environmental education
programs, directed toward schools in participating municipalities, with respect to the
planning and management of natural resource use in their respective microcatchments. As
required by the CMDR, the project will train local leaders and teachers in the use of
educational materials and games designed to introduce children to their local environment
and  spark  their interest in its preservation.   The subcomponent will finance:
(a) purchasing and/or contracting of private entities to prepare environmental education



-17-
programs and games, videos and teaching materials; (b) audio-visual equipment;
(c) technical assistance; and (d) incremental operating costs.
2.20 Incentive Fund for Soil Management and Conservation and Pollution
Control: (13.6% of total cost). To promote a rapid and integrated adoption of modem
techniques of land management, soil conservation and pollution control practices as
recommended in the technical strategy (Annex B), the project will finance the Incentive
Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and Pollution Control (1P) created by
Law 8421 of November 1993". The IP will provide limited financial support in the form
of grants to eligible small- and medium-scale farmers for specific activities which are
necessary to accomplish the project's technical strategy as recommended in the PGM, and
which require collective investments generating only long-term returns or yield benefits to
society at large. The demonstration effect engendered by the activities financed under the
IP will accelerate adoption of conservation techniques by farmers both inside and outside
the project microcatchments. The UGP created within CATI (para. 2.32) will be
responsible for administering the IP. CATI's DDA will control the application of funds
awarded under the IP (para. 2.26).
2.21  The IP consolidates previous state subsidies granted under PEMBH, improves
their targeting to small farmers and provides for greater transparency and decentralization.
It will be gradually phased out and terminated by the end of project implementation, as
benefits become more visible to farmers and demonstration effects take place. The IP will
finance a decreasing share, depending on the farm size, specific activity, and project year,
of various soil conservation subprojects. Five types of subprojects will be financed under
this Fund and assisted by the project. Two will be for farmer groups: (a) collective
purchase of specific farm implements to undertake reduced tillage and improved land
management practices (e.g., deep rippers, lime spreaders, and knife rollers); and
(b) construction of water supply systems for agro-chemical mixing points to avoid
pollution of streams and water sources. Three will be for individual farmers: (a) land
management practices (such as contour farming and strip cropping, vegetative contours,
bunding and terracing); (b) protective fencing along water courses; and (c) provision of
seeds for green manure crops (Table B-4). The Implementation Manual provides detailed
procedures to guide farmers, project extensionists, CMDR, CRDR, and the UGP
executing this subcomponent.  It specifies eligibility criteria (based on farm  size,
dependence of farm income, and site of residency), grant terms, limits and conditions, and
operating mechanisms and procedures. Assurances have been obtained from the State
Government that the incentive program established by the Soil Conservation Law will be
implemented in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Implementation Manual
(para. 3.2 (b)).
The law created the Incentive Program as an integral part of the PEMBH to be financed by the Bank
Loan. The Fund will become operational once the Bank Loan is approved and signed.



-18-
2.22 Following recommendations and targets contained in the corresponding PGM, the
extensionists assigned to the project, either from CATI or from the municipalities,
together with the benefiting famers, will prepare the PIPs and the PECs for individual or
collective projects, respectively (para 2.10). The PGM and the funding required for its
implementation, both for collective and individual subprojects, will then be reviewed and
approved by the respective CMDR. Consolidated, approved plans from a municipality
will be forwarded to the corresponding EDR for technical clearance and review by the
CRDR, and then to the UGP for final approval and processing. Farmers will enter into
implementation agreements with the SAA to benefit from the IP under terms and
conditions specified in the Implementation Manual. Once a subproject has been completed
by an individual or by a farmer group, the intended beneficiary will request payment from
the IP Fund, and disbursement by the UGP to the beneficiary will be made only once the
CMDR and the extensionist responsible for the development of the subproject have
verified its satisfactory completion. If a beneficiary does not use and maintain the
subproject as intended, legal means will be used to have the grant refunded with full
monetary correction.
2.23 Incentive for Recovery of Degraded Lands (5.1% of total cost). The main
objective of this subcomponent will be to induce the adoption of land management
techniques to recover degraded lands, as recommended in the PGM (para. 2.10). State
financing for the recovery of degraded lands has its origin in Law 8421 of November
1993. The degrees of degradation of the areas to be benefited under the project will have
a wide range of variation from extremely critical with accelerated land degradation and
presence of sheet and gully (vogorocas) erosion and hence in urgent need of stabilization
measures, to areas that still do not present serious erosion problems but, due to the loss of
soil structure and insufficient vegetative cover, need substantial changes in management
techniques to prevent more serious soil erosion. Therefore, based on the participatory
socio-economic agro-ecological survey, the microcatchment community will identify
critical areas that will need to be recovered. Two types of subprojects will be financed
under this subcomponent for small and medium farmers to recover degraded lands in
accordance with the recommendations of the PGM: (a) individual projects for the control
of sheet and gully erosion; and (b) collective projects to groups of farmers for farm
equipment to reduce tillage and improve land management practices. The rules and
criteria for benefiting from this incentive are detailed in the Implementation Manual.
Criteria for classification of farms and farmer groups, as well as for the administration of
the incentive, are the same as those for the IP (para. 2.22), the difference being that, in
accordance with the 1993 law, this incentive will be provided to the farms in kind. The
UGP within CATI (para 2.32) will be responsible for administering this subcomponent.
Procedures for the implementation of this subcomponent are detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual.
2.24 Forestry Development (6.5% of total costs). This component aims at inducing
the microcatchmnent community to reforest either continuous protected strips along water



- 19-
courses or small plots on steeper areas or shallow solid soil unsuitable for agriculture, in
particular to improve the quality of water, regulate the river flows, and decrease
sedimentation. Based on the microcatchment's analytical map of environmental risk, the
microcatchment community, guided by the extensionist, will identify the areas to be
reforested and included in the PGM (para. 2.10). The PGM, together with the PIPs
identifying the reforestation requirements, will be processed following the same
procedures as outlined for the IP (para. 2.22). This subcomponent will provide about 13
million seedlings of native species to beneficiary farmers to plant about 11,000 ha for
conservation purposes at the microcatchment level. A small portion of the seedlings
required under the project will be produced by CATI's DSMM, while most of them will
be procured from private nurseries in the proximity of the microcatchments to be
reforested. Given the strong externalities of the reforestation activities in a state that has
lost a substantial amount of its forest cover in a relatively short time, microcatchments or
individual farmers with permanent forest cover will receive higher ratings to qualify for
other project incentives. Procedures for the implementation of this subcomponent are
detailed in the Project hnplementation Manual.
2.25 The DSMM within CATI, in close coordination with the EDRs and the project
extensionists, will plan and coordinate the timely procurement, production, and
distribution to microcatchment beneficiaries of planting material for conservation
reforestation. The project will provide up to 2,600 seedlings (to plant up to 2 Ha.) to
frmers free of charge (since social benefits far exceed private gain) following the
recommendations of the PGM and in accordance with the PIPs.
2.26  State Environmental Law  Enforcement (1.2%  of total cost).   This
subcomponent will improve enforcement of environmental legislation concerning land use,
soil conservation and mrual pollution in the project area. Law N° 8421 of November 23,
1993, which amended and expanded the Soil Conservation Law of July 4, 1988, assigned
law enforcement responsibility to SAA. However, this law was not regulated until April
16, 1997 by Decree 41.719 which granted CATI the direct responsibility for enforcement
of soil conservation laws. CATI will enforce the legislation through its regional DDA
offices to ensure that: (a) the newly regulated state environmental law is complied with in
the project area; (b) the different incentives provided under the project are being
implemented in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the respective
agreements; and (c) the quality of the planting material used for the conservation
reforestation is adequate. While the soil legislation will be enforced statewide, law
enforcement will concentrate its efforts on the 1,500 microcatchments to be benefited
under the project. It will draw substantial support for law enforcement from the CRDR,
CMDR and farmers' associations. Incentives to be financed under the project will be
controlled based on a random sample of 20% of the individual or collective projects. The
project will finance additional vehicles and computing equipment and incremental



- 20 -
recurrent costs to strengthen 24 DDA regional offices, 17 of which will be in the priority
area.
Erosion Control Works alog Rural Roads (25. 7% of total costs)
2.27 This component will aim to overcome localized erosion problems and prevent
further problems caused by water run-off along benefiting microcatchment networks, and
as an integral part of the PGM (para. 2.10). Proposed project works on about 6,000 km
will improve year-round road access and reduce maintenance costs. The programmed
works will include: (a) minor reshaping of road profiles, with shoulder remodeling;
(b) various drainage and erosion control works, including construction of flood control
tanks, diversion ditches and farm road junctions with field terraces; and (c) road
regravelling. A Road Rehabilitation Unit was established within the UGP (para. 2.32) to
coordinate and administer this component, with support from the EDR's technical units,
the project extensionists and Municipal Governments.
2.28 During the initial socio-economic agro-ecological survey of the microcatchment
area, project extensionists, together with the microcatchment community and local
technicians, will identify road sections requiring rehabilitation. Based on this information
and on the criteria established in the Project Implementation Manual, the project
extensionist, with the participation of the microcatchment community, will prepare a
Technical Profile of Road Rehabilitation, prioritizing the roads proposed to be included in
the PGM. The criteria for the selection of road segments to be rehabilitated under the
project take into account, among others, the number of beneficiaries, the degree of road
degradation, and adoption of improved natural resources management practices by
beneficiaries. The PGM will identify the road segment proposed to be rehabilitated, and
the need for environmental licensing, if any (para. 2.10). The PGM, once approved by the
CMDR, will be sent to the EDR for consideration.
2.29 The EDR will be responsible for consolidating the corresponding work plan for the
municipalities under its jurisdiction which will include the road improvement program, and
for submitting it to the UGP for approval. Once the work plan has been approved by the
UGP, road. rehabilitation works will be initiated only if farmers in the respective
microcatchment areas have begun the activities recommended in the PGM. The UGP's
Roads Rehabilitation Unit will be responsible for implementing this component (para.
2.32). Through private contracting firms, the unit will prepare detailed road rehabilitation
projects, undertake the works and supervise their implementation with the assistance of
the EDR's technical units and the project extensionists. Technical guidelines for road
works are part of the Implementation Manual for use by all project extensionists, and
public and private technicians for the execution of this component. Typical rehabilitation
works will be simple, small in volume and scattered along the road network and will thus
require simple designs and engineering. Therefore, EDR's technical units and municipal
technical staff will be trained to progressively assume these responsibilities under direct



-21 -
supervision of the UGP's Road Rehabilitation Unit. About 90% of the works will be
contracted out to small private firms or communities following the Bank's procurement
guidelines, while the remaining 10% will be executed under force account by municipal
governments. Municipalities will be responsible for road maintenance. The agreement to
be signed between the SAA and the municipalities prior to initiating any project work in
each respective municipality provides for municipality commitment to these responsibilities
(para. 2.9). To ensure adequate maintenance by the participating municipalities, the road
selection criteria within the Implementation Manual also requires satisfactory maintenance
of a project-rehabilitated road as a pre-condition for the financing of a second road in a
particular municipality. This Manual draws substantially from the experience of similar,
ongoing projects in the neighboring states of Parana and Santa Catarina, and includes
guidelines to prevent temporary negative environmental impacts during the execution of
works. The project will finance: (a) civil works for road rehabilitation; (b) technical
assistance and contracted services; and (c) incremental operating costs.
Training and Communication (10.3% of total costs)
2.30  The extensive training program offered by the project will ensure appropriate staff
training in modem natural resource management and soil conservation practices, increase
the awareness of project staff and community representatives regarding environmental
issues and integrate these issues into all project-related activities, and communicate the
project concept, technical strategy and operational procedures. The training program will
be complemented by a dissemination strategy on the project's rationale and approach
through the provision of a series of regional and state-level workshops which will facilitate
promotion of project activities and results. The project will provide for: (a) advanced
courses for monitors (trainers of extensionists) and intensive basic courses for CATI and
municipal and private extensionists on modem natural resource management and soil
conservation techniques, community organization, participatory planning methodologies,
and conceptual and operational aspects of the project; (b) introductory courses to
disseminate the project concept and operational strategy that would be offered for the
UGP, managers of the EDRs, CATI's state and regional teams for law enforcement, and
selected project staff belonging to the highest priority area at regional and municipal
levels; (c) specialized skills courses on specific technical topics, as determined by regions
and municipalities and by the coordinators of each of the components; (d) courses on
financial, accounting and procrement matters; (e) regional- and state-level seminars to
promote the exchange of experiences and disseminate project results to local and regional
staff of executing agencies and participating institutions, as well as study tours to other
states and countries to learn from the experiences of similar projects; and (f) dissemination
of the project's approach to familiarize the general public at the state, regional and
municipal levels with the rationale behind the project's natural resource management and
conservation strategy through traveling visual exhibits, video productions and others.



- 22 -
2.31 The Training Unit within the UGP will be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of this component with CATI's Department of Training and
Communication. Each Technical Unit within the UGP (para. 2.32) will develop the
training program based on the demands of the regional and municipal plans and prepare
the technical content required for each of the courses. The Department of Training and
Communication will then be responsible for implementing the required training, drawing
from  in-house and contracted-out specialists.  The training component plays an
instrumental role in advancing the project philosophy and methodology and hence in
assuring the sustainability of project activities. The funds for the implementation of the
training component will be administered and monitored by the UGP through the Training
Coordinator, in accordance with an annual training program approved by the Project
Manager. The detailed training strategy and the operational procedures of this component
are included in the Implementation Manual. The project will finance: (i) consultants and
specialized services; (ii) study tours within and outside Brazil; (iii) computer, audiovisual,
and office equipment; (iv) audiovisual production; and (v) incremental recurrent costs.
Project Administrafion, Monitoring and Evaluation (5.6% of total costs)
2.32  A Project Administration Unit (UGP) was created by Decree N° 41.990 of July 23,
1997. It was established within the scope of CATI, but reports directly to the SAA
Secretary (see Annex B, Chart 3). The structure, function and basic skill requirements for
the unit are detailed in the Implementation Manual. The structure of the unit consists of a
general project coordinator and three managers as follows: (a) a technical manager, with
five technical units-each responsible for one of the project components--plus a
procurement and contracting unit; (b) a strategic planning manager with three units as
follows: strategic planning, environmental coordination, and monitoring and evaluation;
and (c) an administrative and financial manager with two units: disbursements and
accounting. In addition, an Adaptive Research Committee will be established, attached to
the technical manager, to assist the UGP in the implementation of the Adaptive Research
component. The UGP will be directly responsible for the implementation of three
components: Adaptive Agricultural Research, the Incentive Program for Natural Resource
Management and Conservation, and the Rural Roads Component, and of one
subcomponent, the agro-ecological mapping. In addition, an Internal Audit and Control
Unit (IACU) was created by CATI's Portaria N° 12 of August 20, 1997. It is attached to
the General Coordinator of CATI to undertake the financial, physical and procedural
internal audit of the project: The UGP and the IACU will be staffed mainly from within
CATI through reassignment of responsibilities or from the other SAA entity. Therefore,
the project will provide intensive training on financial and accounting matters for staff of
these two units (para. 2.30). The project will also finance additional vehicles and office
equipment, contractual services for internal and external audits and incremental recurrent
costs.



- 23 -
2.33 Conditions of Loan renegotiation were: the establishment of the UGP within CATI
and the designation of the key staff of the UGP to initiate project implementation, with
qualifications and terms as outlined in the draft Implementation Manual, and acceptable to
the Bank, who were nominated under the SAA Resolution of August 19, 1997. These key
staff include the General Project Coordinator; three managers (technical, planning and
financial); and the heads of the thematic units as follows: Technology and Institutional
Development, Adaptive Research, Incentive Program, Rural Roads, Training, and
Procurement and Contracting. The IACU within CATI was established and the head of
the unit nominated by CATI's Portaria N° 12 of August 20, 1997. Assurances have been
obtained from the State Government that: (a) it will maintain a Project Administration
Unit (UEP) within CATI, with organization, structure and functions, and qualified staff, all
acceptable to the Bank; (b) an Internal Auditing and Control Unit (LACU) (para 3.2 (c);
and (c) six months after the signing of the loan, it will designate the staff to be responsible
for the two sub-units within the IACU (para. 3.2 (d)).
2.34 Each technical unit head of the UGP will be responsible for the day-to-day
monitoring of its respective component. Reporting requirements, including key indicators
(physical and financial) and targets, are included in the "Project Monitoring Letter"
presented to the Bank on September 11, 1997 and described in the Implementation
Manual (Annex D, Table 1). The UGP, through the Technical Manager, will receive
monthly reports from the regions and municipalities on the key physical and financial
indicators. The Planning Manager will prepare semi-annual consolidated monitoring
summaries, conduct semi-annual project monitoring meetings and send semi-annual
reports to the Bank. These reports will include, in addition to the key indicators,
information on the following areas: (a) counterpart funds allocated by the State to the
project; (b) status of compliance with legal, financial and administrative covenants; (c)
updated implementation and disbursement schedule for the remainder of the project; (d)
financial versus physical execution of the project; (e) updated list and performance
indicators of eligible and approved microcatchment subprojects; (f) relevant environmental
information during the semester; and (g) the findings of the IACU. The Planning Manager
will also carry out ongoing project evaluation. Mid-Term and ex-post evaluations of the
project's socio-economic impact will be carried out under contract by a state university
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.35  As a complement to the day-to-day project monitoring, the project will also carry
out a detailed resource monitoring of, at the most, twelve microcatchments to measure
project impact. Criteria for the selection of the pilot microcatchments, as well as the
general variables that will be monitored to assess the project's ability to achieve its
objectives, are summarized in Table 2.3 and outlined in the Implementation Manual.
During the first trimester of project implementation, CATI will contact all State
Universities to explain the project strategy and the objective of the microcatchment
monitoring exercise and solicit proposals for the microcatchment monitoring to start not
later than nine months after loan signature (para. 3.2 (d) (iii)). Information on this



- 24 -
exercise, together with the routine monitoring, will be the basic ingredients for the
preparation of the Mid-Term and ex-post evaluation to be contracted out to one of the
state universities, following a selection process in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Assurances have been obtained that: (a) the progress of the implementation of the
project performance will be monitored following the indicators and targets included in the
"Project Monitoring Letter" of September 11, 1997; (b) semi-annual progress reports will
be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of each calendar semester;
(c) satisfactory Mid-Term and ex-post evaluation reports will be presented to the Bank for
review not later than June 30, 2001 or when disbursements from the loan account have
reached 50% of the loan amount, whichever is earlier, and six months after the Closing
Date, respectively; and (d) implementation of the microcatchment monitoring will start not
later than nine months after loan signature (para. 3.2 (e)). The "Project Monitoring
Letter" (para. 3.2 (e)) setting the indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the
progress of the implementation of the project performance was submitted to the Bank on
September 11, 1997 (para. 3.2 (e)).
Tailk 2.3. Overall Projedt Devebpment Objetive ad Perfoanee MoUMoriU luicators.
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                     IMPORTANT INDICATORS
Inmroved Natural Rsource Managent   Eavlremental indicton
-  Soil erosion and odher soil physical dcacteristics
Forest cover
U Use of aro4oxins
Water quality
*  Decease in road malatenance coats
Soclo-EAonkom   producive idators
*  Soil fertility
*  Adoption rate of reconNnenxed practices
*  Crop yields
*  Level of association
E. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
2.36   State LeveL The project will be executed by SAA thorough CATI. At the state
level, the PEMBH Consultative Council (CC) was created by the Decree of July 23,1997
and includes one representative from each of the following State Secretariats: Agriculture
and Supply, Finance, Environment, Water Resources, and two representatives of the state
universities, one representative of the national Watershed Commission and eight
representatives of the CRDR, with the general project coordinator acting as its executive
secretary. The CC will have overall advisory responsibility for project policy, budgets,
institutional coordination and the integration of the proposed project with other state



- 25 -
programs'2. The UGP will directly administer three project components (para. 2.32) and
liaise with CATI's executing departments and with the regional and municipal entities
responsible for executing the project. It will monitor various project activities and prepare
quarterly progress reports and consolidated financial accounts. It will also be responsible
for ensuring that project efforts are directed to the priority project areas and that the
project is executed in accordance with the Implementation Manual.
2.37  Regional LeveL CATI's Regional Manager will be responsible for coordinating
project activities at the regional level and for ensuring coordination of other projects with
the PEMBH. The technical engineering units attached to the Regional Manager will also
be trained to be gradually responsible for the implementation of the agroecological
mapping subcomponent (para. 2.13), and for the simpler road rehabilitation works (para.
2.29). The CRDR (para. 2.14) will be responsible for overseeing implementation of the
project at the regional level and for ranking the municipalities that will participate in the
project, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual. They are
comprised of representatives from cooperatives, associations, agroindustries, universities
and representatives of the CMDRs (para. 2.3). The CRDRs will also be responsible for
reviewing the microcatchment management plans submitted by the CMDR.
2.38 Municipal Level. CATI senior extensionists will be responsible for motivating
the farm community to form a CMDR in each priority municipality as a prerequisite to
participating in the project, and thereafter providing technical support to the CMDR.
CATI extensionists, together with municipality and private extensionists, as the case may
be, will be responsible for assisting farmers in the preparation and implementation of the
PGM which will be the basis for any project intervention at the microcatchment level
(para. 2.10). Each CMDR will be comprised of representatives from the municipal
authorities, cooperatives, farmers' associations and other local entities (para. 2.3). The
CMDR will be responsible for selecting microcatchments for intervention, using project
criteria and reviewing microcatchment management plans, including individual or
collective requests for support under the IP.
2.39 Annual Planning and Budgeting. Targets and costs established at appraisal will
be adjusted annually during the project implementation period. In July of each year, each
technical coordination unit within the UGP will prepare an annual operating plan and
budget, detailing the physical targets, staffing, training and procurement programs, and
projected expenditures for the next calendar year, based on the budgets prepared by the
municipalities and regions. The Planning Manager, in close consultation with the Financial
Manager and the Technical Manager, will review these plans, consolidate them after
ensuring intemal consistency, and submit the consolidated operating plan and budget to
the CC for its review and appreciation. The consolidated operating plan and budget will
12 CATI's Resolution of July 22, 1997 assigns the higher priority to the PEMBH and requires the
subordination of all projects to it.



-26 -
be presented before September 30 of each year to the State Government for further review
and approval by the State Assembly by October 31. Assurances have been obtained
from the State Government that the project's annual operating plan and budget,
satisfactory to the Bank, including the physical targets, staffing, training and procurement
programs, and projected expenditures for the following year, will be made available to the
Bank by December 31 of each year (para. 3.2 (f)). A satisfactory Annual Operating Plan
for the first year of the project was submitted to the Bank shortly after negotiations.
F. PROJECT COST AND FINANcING
2.40 Project Cost. Total project costs, including taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$124.7 million with a foreign exchange component of US$17.7 million, or about 14%
of the total cost. Project baseline costs amount to US$112.50 million. The cost estimate
includes about US$13.2 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingencies of
US$5.2 million, or about 5% of baseline costs, include 5% estimated for all project costs
except the incentive fund. Price contingencies of US$7.0 million, or 6% of baseline costs,
are based on international inflation rates. It was assumed that periodic local currency
adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for
differences between the projected rates of the US dollar and local currency inflation. -A
breakdown of project costs by components and years is shown in Annex C-1.
2.41 Financing Plan. The proposed Bank loan of US$55 million equivalent will finance
49.5% of total estimated costs net of taxes and duties, or 44% of costs including taxes. The
proposed share of Bank financing is consistent with that of other projects of a similar nature in
Brazil. Local cost financing is justified because of the project's efforts to promote sustainable
agricultural production and to conserve natural resources. The Government of the State of
Sao Paulo will be the Borrower, and will assume the foreign exchange risk of the Loan. The
Federative Republic of Brazil will be the Guarantor of the Loan
2.42 Procurement The project will involve procurement of civil works, laboratory,
computer, farm, and office equipment, vehicles, consulting services, studies, and training.
Table 2.4 shows project costs broken down by proposed procurement methods.
Procurement under the project will follow the Procurement Guidelines of January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996. Standard bidding documents agreed between the
Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil for the procurement of goods and works by
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used under the project.
2.43  In an effort to minimize potential problems, a Procurement and Contracting Unit
has been established within the UGP (para. 2.32) (Annex B, Chart 2) to coordinate and
oversee all procurement and contracting under the project. In addition, project staff of the
UGP attended a Bank-sponsored procurement seminar in May and September1997, and a
procurement seminar for additional UGP and regional project staff is scheduled to take
place at the latest during the first trimester of 1998. The project will also provide for



- 27 -
additional technical assistance in the form of specialized training in procurement and in the
use of standard bidding documents in order to strengthen the capacity of the regional
offices to procure small civil works and goods under Bank procedures. The UGP will
maintain regular contact with the Administrative Units of the ongoing Bank-assisted
projects in the neighboring states of Parana and Santa Catarina and with the Federal Unit
within the Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN) to benefit from their procurement
experience.
2.44 Civil Works. The cost of civil works wili involve erosion control road and land
reclamation works. The aggregated value of these works is estimated at about US$32.4
million. Because of the dispersed nature and relatively small size of contracts for these
civil works, for which the largest single contract is not expected to exceed US$1.0 million,
it is unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested. Therefore, whenever feasible, civil
works will be grouped into packages of at least US$350,000 and procured through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Total NCB
procurement for civil works is estimated at about US$22.0 million.
Table 2.4 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Category                 ICB          NCB          Other         NB_           Total
Civil Works                          22.0           7.3"          3.2          32.5
-         (13.2)         (4.5)         (0.0)        (17.7)
Goods                     7.4         13.3          2.4           -            23.1
(5.1)       (8.7)         (1.6)          -           (15.4)
Consultant Services       -            -           10.9           -            10.9
-   -       (8.8)          -            (8.8
Training                                            2.2           -             2.2
(1.2)         -            (1.2)
Grants                                             17.0            -           17.0
(11.9)         -           (11.9)
Operting Expenses         -            -             -           39.0          39.0
-  -         -            (0.0)         (0.0)
Total                     7.4        35.3          39.8          42.2         124.7
(5.1)      (21.9)        (28.0)         (0.0)       (55.0)
a/ The quotations, direct contmctiz4 and/or force account
b/ NBF = Not Bank-financed
_I Community contracting
2.45 Erosion control road works and other minor civil works, estimated to cost
USS350,000 or less and not exceeding in aggregate US$7.3 million, which are too



- 28 -
scattered to be grouped, as stated above, will be procured preferably under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
contractors in response to a written invitation. In locations in which there is only one
contractor, direct contracting will be allowed. Where no contractor is available, works
will be carried out under force account. Such expenditures will not be financed by the
Bank loan. The adoption of force account procedure for a small portion of the works to
be undertaken by Municipal Governments is not expected to affect the cost of works due
to the project's training strategy which includes initial training for these entities and for the
participatory microcatchment approach, which gives farmers incentives to procure cost
savings in order to expand their respective microcatchment road rehabilitation plans. It is
estimated that such expenditures will be equivalent to 10% of the cost of civil works, or
about US$ 3.2 million.
2.46 Goods. Goods costing more than US$350,000 per contract, and specialized
research equipment, computer equipment and software will be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Office and farm equipment, and other goods required over the project implementation
period, not exceeding US$13.3 million in aggregate and costing less than US$350,000 per
contract, will be procured in packages of a minimum US$100,000 under NCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign suppliers wishing to participate in bidding for NCB
contracts will be allowed to do so in accordance with local procedures. Miscellaneous
office equipment, furniture, seeds and seedlings and other similar goods estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 per contract, and not exceeding US$2.4 million in aggregate, will
be awarded through national shopping in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
2.47 Community Contracting. Procurement of goods and works for grants under the
Incentive Program, 3 costing less than US$50,000 per project and procured by local
microcatchment farmers, will be carried out mainly through direct contracting and national
shopping. This procurement procedure is appropriate because activities financed by the
Incentive Program: (a) will be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote areas and
therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly
by microcatchment farmers who will contribute to the activities with labor and/or local
materials; and (c) are essential to project sustainability and, as such, local farmers should
participate fully in their implementation.
2.48 Consultants. Consultant services for technical assistance and studies will be
contracted in accordance with the January 1997 "Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants." Foreign consultants will not be subject to prior registration as a condition
of their participation in the selection process. Consulting services for internal and external
audits, for engineering design and supervision and for agro-ecological mapping are
13 The value of the grants may reach up to the equivalent of US$3,000 per beneficiary.



- 29 -
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract and will be awarded on a
least-cost basis. Proposals for the contracting of applied research tasks, estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 per contract, will be contracted using a fixed cost budget. Other
consulting services will be contracted following quality- and cost-based procedures. For
consultants' contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants
and US$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, the Bank's prior review will cover
only terms of reference.
2.49 Bank Review Requirements. Prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid
evaluations, award proposals and final contracts will be required for: civil works contracts
estimated to cost more than US$350,000; all ICB contracts and the NCB contract for
goods costing more than US$100,000 per contract; and consultants' contracts for more
than US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for consulting firms. Due to the small,
demand-driven nature of the contracts, prior Bank review is expected to cover about 40%
of the value of contracts subject to procurement financed under the project. However, the
IACU to be created under the General Coordinator of CATI (para. 2.32) and the project
supervision plan (Annex D, Table D2) will emphasize review of procedures and internal
control by different departments and regions while it will also include post-award reviews
at a ratio of not less than one review to every ten contracts. Assurances have been
obtained from the State Government that the standard bidding documents for the
procurement of goods and works will be used and that the above procurement
arrangements will be followed (para. 3.2 (g)).
2.50  Disbursements and Special Account. In accordance with the standard Bank
profile for similar types of projects, disbursements are expected to occur over about six
and a half years as shown in the estimated disbursement schedule. The project completion
date will be December 31, 2003 and the project Closing Date June 30, 2004. The
proceeds of the US$55.0 million loan equivalent will be disbursed as follows: (a) 55% of
expenditures on civil works; (b) 70% of project expenditures made under the IP; (c) 100%
of all foreign expenditures and 65% of local expenditures for purchases of eligible goods
including purchases of seedlings for land development; (d) 100% of expenditures for
consultants; and (e) 55% of expenditures for training services. Disbursements for civil
works contracts not exceeding US$350,000, contracts for goods and equipment not
exceeding US$100,000, contracts for individual consultants not exceeding US$50,000 and
for consulting firms not exceeding US$100,000, land development under the conservation
reforestation and the incentive for recovery of degraded lands subcomponents and grants
under the Incentive Program will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) prepared by the UGP. With the exception of the terms of reference for consultant
services, supporting documentation for such expenditures will not be submitted to the
Bank but will be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
2.51  In order to reduce the interval during which the State of Sao Paulo will finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special Account will be established



-30 -
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million and
a maximum of US$4.0 million once loan disbursements have reached US$8.0 million.
Withdrawals from the Special Account will be supported by the required documentation
or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The Bank will replenish the Special Account for
the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of SAA. To
enable project executing agencies to accelerate ongoing start-up activities, particularly training
and project dissemination, project expenditures incurred twelve months before loan signing will
be eligible for reimbursement up to US$2.5 million equivalent, or 4.5% of the loan amount. A
breakdown of project costs and the financing plan is shown in Annex C-12.
2.52 Accounts and Auditing. The financial, budgeting, accounting and internal
controls of CATI were assessed by the Bank prior to negotiations. CATI foliows the
"Integrated System of Financial Administration for the State of Sao Paulo's accounts and
its municipalities" which was found satisfactory to record project accounts. However, due
to identified shortcomings of qualified staff in the areas of financial and accounting
matters, the project provides for a financial unit to be staffed with qualified personnel
within the UGP. It also includes intensive training in financial matters during the first
semester of 1998. In addition, an IACU attached to the General Coordinator of CATI has
also been established under the project (para. 2.32). CATI will maintain separate accounts
for project expenditures which will be consolidated by the UGP. Through its IACU, it
will have work sites, engineering and environmental components of the project, as well as
the procurement and contracting processes and the related technical documentation (e.g.,
bidding documents, contracts, engineering designs and other engineering documents)
audited each year in accordance with* internationally acceptable engineering and
environmental standards and as stipulated in the Terms of Reference included in the
Implementation Manual. In addition, the project accounts and the Special Account to be
opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. The terms of reference of external audits are included in the Implementation
Manual. An engineering and environmental audit report to be carried out by independent
auditors, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted to the
Bank by June 30, 2001 or when disbursements from the loan account have reached 50%
of the loan amount, in conjunction with the mid-term review. After the audit, and not
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, SAA will transmit certified copies of
the audited accounts, together with certified copies of the auditors' reports, to the Bank.
2.53  Statements of project accounts will be consolidated by and retained in the UGP
office and made available for Bank supervision. For the annual audits of project accounts,
the independent auditors will test-check the preparation of the SOEs, supporting
disbursement requests, the internal controls of project transactions and the implementation
of these controls, the supporting evidence for the expenditures and the eligibility of the
expenses in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The audit report will include a
description of the audit procedures followed and convey the auditor's opinion and



-31 -
comments as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the SOEs,
their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents and standards of record keeping
and internal controls of project transactions. The separate project accounts maintained by
the executing agencies will be available for review and spot-checked by the Bank during
supervision. An outline of the terms of reference for the annual audits is included in the
Implementation Manual.
2.54 Assurances have been obtained from the State Government that: (a) the
Special Account and the project accounts will be maintained and audited annually by
independent auditors according to standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) terms of reference for the auditors will include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; (c) certified copies of
the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year; and (d) an engineering and environmental audit
report prepared by independent auditors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 2001 or when disbursements from the loan
account have reached 50% of the loan amount, in conjunction with the mid-term
evaluation (para. 3.2 (h)).
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
2.55  The proposed project is expected to make a notable contribution to natural
resource management and conservation by facilitating the introduction of soil and water
conservation practices at the microcatchment level. Benefits under the proposed project
are expected from increased agricultural production through sustainable productivity gains
and improved land use. In addition, the strong reduction of soil erosion, pollution of
water resources, sedimentation of river beds and silting of reservoirs, as well as a lower
risk of flooding, will benefit society at large. Externalities related to sedimentation, water
quality and soil erosion will be monitored and evaluated in about 12 microcatchment pilot
areas under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.35). Based on the results
of this monitoring and on the Mid-Term evaluation, project activities will be adjusted as
needed.
2.56 Production and Farm Incomes. Within the approximate 4.5 million ha of
farmland covered by the 1,500 microcatchments of the project area, about 1.17 million ha
(or about 24.5 % of the project area) are expected to fully benefit from improved land
management and soil conservation practices and some commercial reforestation. Benefits
are based in the adoption rates of the recommended practices as shown in Annex C, Table
C.9 and based on the available technical packages, the proposed technical strategy (Annex
B) and informal surveys carried out by CATI. They are also consistent with the adoption
rates observed in the ongoing land management projects (paras. 1.7-1.8).  These
developments, valued on a per ha of commodity basis, are expected to lead at full
development (Year 10-11) to an annual incremental output value of US$300 million. Fifty



- 32 -
percent of this amount will come from increased productivity of coffee, 41% from the four
other major crops (cotton, maize, soybeans and beans) and 9% from improved milk and
beef production.  The incremental production will be marketed through existing
commercial channels; local markets are expected to absorb maize, beans and wheat, while
soybean and cotton will be exported. These expanded agricultural activities will also
create new on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to about 5,000 man-years
annually.
2.57 Eight farm models representative of the major regions and project priority areas
have been selected to test the financial impact of the improved land management practices
on farm incomes. The analysis shows financial rates of return ranging from 13% to 40%.
At full development, net annual farm benefits from the main crops, which currently vary
from US$2,700 to US$11,700, will increase to a range of US$3,400 to US$20,800.
2.58 Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery. The economic activities generated by the
proposed project are expected to provide the State of Sao Paulo with additional fiscal
revenues of about US$25.0 million and US$50.0 million by years 6 and 10, respectively,
generated by the federal tax on the circulation of goods (ICMS) that will apply to the
incremental marketable production, and will be retained by the State Treasury. In
addition, based on experience in similar projects (para 1.7), the maintenance cost of
rehabilitated roads is expected to decrease by as much as 50%, while the cost of water
treatment due to reduced water turbidity is also expected to decrease. Finally, subsidies
for soil conservation subprojects are expected to be gradually reduced and completely
phased out by project end.
2.59 Economic Analysis. The economic rate of return for the project has been
estimated at 20%. The economic costs include all project investment and operating costs
and on-farm costs, estimated on a per-hectare basis for the main commodities, resulting
from the adoption of improved land management and soil conservation practices on
1,170,000 ha of farmland (as a result of the adoption rates as defined Annex C). The cost
and benefit streams are detailed in Annex C. Sensitivity tests show that the rate is
moderately sensitive to variations in project costs and benefits or delays in achieving
project results. With a 10% rise in project cost or a 10% fall in project benefits, the rate
will be about 12%, while a one-year delay in achieving project results will reduce the rate
of return to 14.5%, still above the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
2.60 Environmental Impact. The project's environmental category is B. The project is
expected to have a significant beneficial impact on the environment by promoting the control of
soil erosion and water pollution and other conservation activities at the niicrocatchment area
level, including a progressive reversion to forest cover of areas not suitable for agricultural or
livestock development. Environmental externalities from project activities will be monitored
under the project in 12 microcatchments. All road rehabilitation works to be financed under
the project will consist of erosion control works on rural roads, designed to decrease erosion as



-33 -
an integral part of the microcatchment area Development Plan, and therefore will contibute
positively to the project's environmental impact. Road realignments, in particular, will occur
only in areas so severely affected by soil erosion that the positive impact from mitigating
erosion damage outweighs any temporary negative impact of project intervention during the
construction process. Nevertheless, to identify and amend any possible negative impact during
construction, the Project Implementation Manual contains specific environmental guidelines,
including careful supervision of works and strong community involvement in the road
rehabilitation program, and the need to seek environmental clearance for the Microcatchment
Development Plan. The Project will create the capacity to recognize and respond to conflicts
over resource use, thereby promoting the use of State land in accordance with its agro-
ecological potential.
2.61 Poverty Category. The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted
Interventions. Consistent with the Bank's poverty reduction efforts, the proposed project aims
at increasing small- and medium-scale farmers' productivity while promoting sound natural
resource management practices. A significant number of small farmers are located in less
productive areas and zones with high susceplubility to erosion. This fact, together with
inadequate natural resource management practices, particularly those resulting in soil
degradation, has tended to reduce farm income and increase its variability. The project will
center its activities in areas with the highest susceptibility to soil erosion and highest
concentration of small-scale- farmers and poverty (para. 2.3). The incentive program to
encourage adoption of key conservation practices will be specifically targeted to small- and
medium-scale farmers to help them overcome the constraint of inital high cost of conservation
investments and ensure that they participate in the benefits generated by improved conservation
practices at the microcatchment level.
H. PROJECT RISKS
2.62 The principal risks are: (a) the reluctance of the fanning community to invest in
conservation techniques, given the perception of delayed direct benefits, the high inital cost of
the recommended practices, and the need for collective action at the microcatchment level; (b)
the potential delay in implementation of some project activities due to prolonged preparation of
project inputs and start-p activities; (c) the potential for delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding due to insufficient political support; and (d) limited institutional capacity. The overall
participatory nature of the project should create awareness among farmers of the need for, and
benefits of collective action in soil erosion control and other conservation and management
techniques and encourage farmers to invest in these activities. In addition, the establishment of
an Icentive Program to partially finance various key conservation and pollution control
activities will help small- and medium-size farmers to overcome the constraint of initial high
cost and demonstrate the benefits of the proposed strategy Moreover, expenence from the
Bank-financed Land Management I (Parani) and II (Santa Catarina) Projects suggests that an
early dissemination of project concept, activities and results, as reflected in the proposed
project's dissemination program, increases the involvement of the fanming community in the



- 34 -
project. This involvement, in turn, generates local ownership and vocalized demand for
government funding from the grassroots level, thereby achieving awareness and support from
higher political levels. Key start-up activities and training of extensionists will begin as soon as
the project has been negotiated to minimize the risk of disruption in the subsequent
implementation of integrated activities. The Project Implementation Manual will establish the
necessary sequencing of project activities to ensure their timely implementation. In addition,
the project's annual operating plans, budget reviews and reporting procedures should provide
an early warming to minuize the risk of insufficient funding. Finally, the project will build upon
the institutional capacity generated from previous state initiatives (para. 1.18) and expand it
incrementally. As the implementation agency gains experience in initial project municipalities,
they will gradually increase their responsibilities and extend coverage of project activities to the
remaining project area. Moreover, the introduction of a strong monitoring system at the State
and local levels, and a well-designed training program which includes substantial technical and
administrative training for the CMDR, CRDR and local extensionists, should ensure efficient
inter-institutional coordination and execution.



-35-
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
3.1   The following actions were accomplished before or at negotiations:
(a)   with Decree N' 41.990 of July 23, 1997, the SAA established the UGP
within CATI as outlined in the draft Implementation Manual and
designated its key staff, with qualifications and terms acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.33);
(b)   with Portaria N° 12 of August 20, 1997, CATI established the Internal
Auditing and Control Unit within CATI and designated the staff
responsible for such unit, with qualifications and terms acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.33);
(c)   on September 11, 1997, SAA submitted to the Bank the "Project
Monitoring Letter" (para. 2.34).
3.2   During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   (i) the Implementation Manual was approved by SAA and will be followed
by project staff, extensionists, technicians, CRDR, CMDR, and
municipalities while implementing project-related activities, and regularly
updated in agreement with the Bank; (ii) prior to initiating project activities
in a selected municipality, SAA and the municipal government will enter
into an agreement for the implementation of all aspects of the project; and
(iii) prior to any on-farm project intervention, the farmer and/or farmers'
association will enter into an agreement for the such implementation (para.
2.10);
(b)   the incentive program established by the Soil Conservation Law will be
implemented in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Implementation Manual (para. 2.21);
(c)   it will maintain within CATI, with organization, structure and finctions,
and qualified staff, all acceptable to the Bank: (i) a Project Administrative
Unit (UGP); and (iv) an Internal Auditing and Control Unit (IACLJ) (para.
2.33);
(d)   six months after the signing of the loan, it will designate the staff to be
responsible for the two sub-units withing the IACU (para. 2.33);



- 36 -
(e)   (i) the progress of the implementation of project performance will be
monitored following the indicators and targets included in the "Monitoring
Letter" of September 11, 1997; (ii) semi-annual progress reports will be
sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of each calendar
semester; (iii) satisfactory Mid-Term and ex-post evaluation reports will be
presented to the Bank not later than June 30, 2001, or when disbursements
from the loan account have reached 50% of the loan amount, whichever is
earlier, and six months after the Closing Date, respectively; and (iv)
implementation of the microcatchment monitoring will start not later than
nine months after the loan signature (para. 2.35);
(f)   the annual operating plan and budget, including the physical targets,
staffing, training and procurement programs, and projected expenditures
for the following year will be made available to the Bank by December 31
each year (para. 2.39);
(g)   the standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works
will be used and procurement arrangements will be those specified in paras.
2.42 to 2.49; and
(h)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts will be maintained and
audited annually by independent auditors according to standards and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors
will include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and
verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; (iii) certified copies of
the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year; and an annual
independent engineering and environmental audit will be submitted to the
Bank by June 30, 2001, or when disbursements from the loan account have
reached 50% of the loan amount, whichever comes first and in conjunction
with the Mid-Term evaluation (para. 2.54).
Recommendation
3.3   With the above agreements and assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$55.0 million equivalent with a term of 15 years on a fixed
amortization schedule with a five-year grace period, and with retroactive financing of up
to US$2.5 million equivalent for expenditures incurred during a period of up to twelve
months prior to the date of loan signing.



- 37 -
ANNEX A:
BACKGROUND INFORMATION



I



Annex A
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table A-1. Comparative Evolution of Livestock Production and Level of Mechanization
Livestock Production and Average Productivity Ratios
Mechanization
........... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                 .  .  *.~".   .....
Mechrnzationono                                                     r                                            9    70Tt
vv.i." :.. ' :: :': ::''. ::: : '::.:. .,,::.: .........................  :..::,:. : .,



Annex A
BRAZIL
Table A.2 LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
Inputs (in '000 ton)
269    1234.0                        s20000                           '.1



Annex A
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table A.3 Comparative Evolution of Crop Yields, Level of Machanization, Use of Modern Inputs, and Migration of Rural Population (1970
- 1990)
Agricultural Production and Average Cro Yields
1351 9    Tl41077.7                                      1287.3                  1.33       1*
554.1                       285.5                        255.3                   1.60
-                           195.5                       70.7 
99.6                        27.3      I40.4                                         6
518.4                       1025.6                       1821.8    '"""            22 
766.9   ~ tQ ~835.9                                      562.9                    11
93.0                ~~~~3966                      79613



Annex A
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table A.4 Evolution of State GOP in Relation to Country GOP (1970 - 1990)
(1970r-1985
l OFNTIONAL GOP'                                                                  (I % OFNTINLFIUE
37.6                                                                              194
35.9 tnd                                                                          177
34.2                         1                                                    170
33.9                         14174
Source: IBCiE /FCV (1970 to 1985) and SEADE Foundation



- 42 -
r:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.      .    .                                                                     .   . ... ..   .
|~~~~~0                            'f     ,        ~                           O       -    | .
...v..w   nna    .                                           mfl~~~~~~~. ......... ..       V.  ffftll ..V... ...
g g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   .....                                ..,  ..,,, .,-...,,- ...-, ...
U e 
zn °                                                                                                           R  Wi
tS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 _0                                                                                    en t
oW 4F _as | x ~~~~~~~~~m                                      OR                     es t  s  e 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   _ A






- 43 -
ANNEX B:
STRATEGY FOR IMPROVED NON-RURAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT



I



- 44 -
Annex B
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Sao Paulo Strategy for Improved Non-Rural Resource Management
A. Area of Project Intervention
1.    Introduction. During the 1970s, Sao Paulo's agriculture underwent a major transformation stemming
from a combined process of accelerated urbanization associated with the implementation of an agroindustrial
complex. The latter aimed at promoting production of manufactured goods and agricultural inputs and
machinery equipment, which facilitated large-scale agricultural development aimed at meeting growing
domestic and foreign demand. This transformation was also strongly influenced by agricultural policies which
substantially subsidized the mechanization process, the use of agrochemicals, and the opening of new
agricultural lands mainly through subsidized credit. This process, which was characterized by increased use of
agrochemicals and accelerated mechanization, brought about an accelerated process of soil erosion and
chemical pollution which is seriously affecting the availability and quality of the water resources in a number
of areas, in particular the western part of the state.
2.    The most significant type of natural resource degradation in rural Sao Paulo is a combination of water-
induced soil erosion and increased pollution of water sources as a result of uncontrolled water runoff, animal
waste and toxic waste dumping. These problems result from extensive deforestation, inappropriate land use,
poor soil management and inadequate road designs. Highly erosive tropical rainfall on bare soil detaches
small soil particles which clog soil pores and seal the surface (rainsplash effect). Rain is lost as surface runoff
carries away soil particles and causes sheet and gully erosion damage, silting of river beds and flooding.
3.    Concern about these problems led the state government to launch a pilot study' in 1986 to map
erosion risk in the watershed of the Peixe-Paranapanema River, which covers about one-third of the state
area, and evaluate erosion damage and its impact on the entire region. The alarming result of this study
encouraged the state to take a number of policy actions to address this issue, including the creation in 1997 of
the Water Resources Council2, which established the conditions for a decentralized State Water Resources
Management System to better address the natural resource management problems affecting the watersheds.
4.    However, results up to now have not been encouraging. It is estimated that about 80% of the
cultivated area of the state still presents soil erosion problems, substantially above the technically tolerable
levels. Therefore, it is estimated that about 194 million tons of topsoil are lost annually with about 50 million
tons reaching the watercourses, causing sedimentation and contamination of watersheds3 These problems are
more acute in certain areas of the state, such as the western region which is the most intensively cultivated
area on sedimentary and sandstone-derived soil. It is also the area with the highest concentration of poverty
in the state.
' Sh*durndwken undcr the co&dinau of the Elerical Enry Dqeaient
' Cread with Deuee No. 27.576 of November, 1997, and expanded by Decree No. 32.954 od Febnmy 7,1991. Since hen, watershed basin committi for all but
two wateruhed have been formed
3Beflinazi et al 1991 and Impnlmtation Manal prepaed by CATI 1997



- 45 -
5.    State intervention is justified to induce adoption of improved natural resource management practices
aimed at achieving a development strategy based on rational use of soil and water. However, the search for
sustainability also calls for a planned and rational intervention, focusing efforts and resources on programs
with permanent and multiplying effects. A State program addressing the above-mentioned aspects will need
to be based in the watershed which is a well-defined geographic unit with interdependent relations and forces.
However, experience has demonstrated that changes in rural behavior should be initiated with fewer farmers,
with basic activities and proper technologies, in small areas, and using readily available resources to obtain
results in the short-term. On a limited scale --at the microcatchment level (microbacia hidrografica), the
drainage area of a small tributary in a given watershed-- it will be easier to obtain concrete and visible results
with substantial impact to the farming community on a sustainable basis.
6.    Within this context, the project would cover an area of about 4.5 million hectares and will use the
microcatchment (microbacia hidrogrdfica) as the planning and implementation unit. The microcatchment-
centered strategy has proven to be very efficient in similar natural resources management projects in Parana
and Santa Catarina, particularly for the implementation of collectively planned activities such as the
construction of physical barriers and realignment of feeder roads to control excess runoff; for the recovery of
galery forests to protect water courses; and for the establishment of water pollution control measures
including water supply structures for pesticide management and agrotoxic waste disposal set-ups. Moreover,
farmers organized around microcatchments have facilitated the introduction of improved natural resources
management practices promoted by extensionists, and the monitoring and enforcement of environmental laws,
in particular those related to soil, water and forest cover. By working at the grassroots level, it will also
facilitate the implementation of more participatory watershed committees consistent with state policies.
Selection of Priority Regions
7.    While the project would encompass the entire state, the area of direct project intervention would equal
about 30% of the total state farmland, but about 50% of the area is classified as high priority. The
demonstration effect of project activities in the project area, which would be spread geographically across the
state, is expected to induce the adoption of the project-supported natural resource management approach in
the state's remaining farmland. The project will focus its efforts on highly eroded areas or those highly
susceptible to erosion which at the same time present the highest concentration of poverty. To that end, the
40 EDR, which are homogeneous agricultural regions, have been ranked from one to three, based on two
factors: susceptibility to soil erosion and concentration of poverty, as follows.
8.    Susceptibility to Soil Erosion. Based on the technical survey carried out by the Technological
Research Institute in 1992, as a basis for the formulation of the project, susceptibility to soil erosion was
defined on three levels, taking into account the combination of the following factors: (a) potential erosion as
the combination of rain erosivity, soil erodibility and soil declivity; (b) expectation of soil degradation
measured as the combination of potential erosion, level of mechanization and use of heavy disc plow and lack
of soil cover during critical periods; (c) current level of soil erosion; (d) land use; (e) level of farmers' response
to the pilot program; and (f) existing concentration of small- and medium-scale farmers.4  Each of these
factors was ranked from one to five for each EDR and, based on the total points, then regrouped into three
categories as follows.
4 Withintie cwe dc oftbe proC11- mu an_M _  f arme deined m  Tabe ... ofthe SAR.



- 46 -
LEVEL           VULNERABILITY TO EROSION
1                               high
-2                       L      medium
3                               low
9.    Poverty. Based on information extracted from "Conjuntura Alimentiria" prepared by SAA, from
information in the "Mapa da Fome" prepared by the Instituto de Pesquisa Aplicada, each of the 40 EDRs was
also ranked on three levels, depending on the concentration of poverty, the latter being defined as those
families with family earnings of less than two basic salaries per month.. The ranking of this coefficient is
shown in the foliowing table:
LEVEL                        POVERTY
over 20% of poor fanmilies
from 10% to 20%/
3                            less than 10%o
10.   Combined Soil Erosion and Poverty Criteria. Based on the above-mentioned erosion and poverty
coefficients, areas for project intervention were ranked as high "1", medium "2" and low "3" by combining
these two criteria (Table B.1). Because the Project's main objective is to improve natural resource
management, highest priority in the ranking process was given to susceptibility to the soil erosion coefficient
rather than to poverty concentration. Table B.2 shows the ranking regrouped on the three levels of priority
for project intervention.
11.   About 70%/o of project resources wili be concentrated in areas with the highest priority, 27% in areas
with medium-level priority, and about 3% in areas with low pnority. The estimated number of
microcatchments per priority area is presented in the following table:



- 47 -
TECHNICAL INDICES OF MICROCATCHMENTS BY PRIORrTY REGION
.     1         310             1,050           70.0     1      .9
2             234             405            27.0           1.73
3             102              45            3.0            0.44
12.   The participatory strategy of the Project underlines the need to implement the project on the basis of
microcatchments as geomorphological and socio-economic units covering areas ranging from 1,500 to 5,000
ha (average of 3,000 ha) and grouping about 40 to 90 farmers (average of 60 farmers), with substantial
participation of the rural community. Therefore, municipalities and microcatchments that would finally
participate in the project will be selected as follows.
Criteria for the Selection of the Municipalities and Microcatchments
13. Municipalities: Selection of municipalities within a particular region will be the responsibility of the
Regional Rural Development Council (CRDRs), established by State Decree N° 41.718 dated April 16, 1997,
based on the following criteria. First, municipalities should meet the following two prerequisites:
*  To have a Municipal Rural Development Council (CMDR) with representatives of the various segments of
the municipal agriculture sector in accordance with Decree N° 40.103 of May 25, 1996; and
* To have formalized an agreement with SSA specifying, inter alia, its commitment to implement the
project in accordance with the PEMBH Implementation Manual, including the maintenance of roads to be
rehabilitated under the Project.
Having fuilflled the above prerequisites, the CRDR will apply the following parameters and weights to select
the municipalities that will participate in the project. The municipality with the highest number of points will
be the one selected to participate in the project.



- 48 -
Parameters                                                                      Weights
1. Predominantuses                                                                 1ito 5
2. Recptvales by the mmuaict-v                                                    I tD S
3. Concentm allfim                   7                                            1 to 5
4. Aea_y _ _   sfin_ _NM_works                                                     1 or2
5. Presence of Consevaton Units for nirect Use and buffer areas 9                 1 to 5
6. Areas with greater use of agrochemicals'                                       1 to 
14. Criteria for the Selection of the Microcatchment: Selection of a microcatchment within a municipality
will be the responsibility of the Municipal Microcatchment Commission (CMDR), based on the following
parameters and weights:
Parameters                                                                        Weights
1. Level of environmental degradation"                                              I to 5
2. Concentration of small farmers',                                                 0 to S
3. Predominant Uses'3                                                               1 to 5
4. Water supply sources14                                                           1 to 5
5. Receptiveness by firmers'5                                                       1 to 5
6. MBH area within or ne   Conservation Unit of Indirect Use'                       I to 5
7. Greater percentage of area of pennanent conservation in the MBHI7                I to 5
15.     Microcatchments will be ranked based  on the points obtained after the application of the above-
mentioned criteria. Microcatchments with the highest number of points will be the ones selected.
iMicrocatchments with fewer than 65% of small farmers will receive zero points under criteria (2).
B. Technical Strategy
16.     The proposed natural resources management strategy would address the problem  of water-induced
soil erosion in the aforementioned project area by pursuing three objectives: (a) minimize rainsplash effect by
protecting the soil surface from disintegration and sealing; (b) minimize excess runoff by maximizing the rate
and amount of infiltration; and (c) minimize the ability of water runoff to flow and form gullies by limiting its
accumulation and velocity.
' Grerowegit wil be given to municipalt  with a pedom ne ofasa 1      and pro&cion ofbasic foods, and lsser weight to sugarcane and citus growing
6 Consideration will be pven to the t    and willingn  of municpl goverme  cooperatives unions, ad private enris  to psticipate in the Progm
Greaer wegit will be gie to municipelite, Wih a gra  perCentag of  n1 frmers
7 Weiglt I for a municipaity with MBH and 2 for a niamcpality witbout MBH. Higher somre to nuirocatchmet whiich are put ofthe watershed suples in water foe
for human onsumpion.
Greater weight for numicipelities with Covatn Units of Indirect Use (Pts and Forest Reaves) within their boundaries or buffer area.
"e Greater weight oudb  iven tomuici        wwith me inte  uof aociica
t A hige score will be givento microcathmnets where enviromn    depadation is moe intmen
"Co2n    ation wil be given to the ineest d willingness of municipal gvmt, oeaives, unions, and private enterpris to pastidpate inthe Progrm
"Greaterweih will be give. to mcipti wih  gaer pct  of u1 fam    Mi           mcatch    with le than 65% of   l farmers will receive 0 points.
14 Higherw sore to micrcatdnat which see pat ofthe waWt     supplies in water foe for human consnumtiL
Coideion must be given to raner inteest and wiinges
1Hier sce for n,iiacat&neat with greater area of Consrvation Units of ldiect Us or buffer-zone area within its boundaries
17 Higher sore for m,ioctdm,,e wih gater area of pernnt conseVati



- 49 -
17.   These objectives can be met over time with efforts to adjust land use to land capability. Therefore,
several land management and soil conservation techniques are readily available and would be promoted by the
project (Table B-3). First, to minimize both the rainsplash effect and excess runoff, the project-supported
strategy would encourage minimum- or no-tillage practices associated with deep ripping, liming and adequate
fertilization. The project woul further stimulate crop biomass production and productivity, crop
diversification and cropping rotations. The latter would include green manure crops, selected seeds,
intensified crop density and improved use of crop residues. Windbreaks to reduce surface evaporation,
adequate pasture, improved herd management, and the use of low-cost vegetative contour barriers (using
fodder crops such as elephant grass, fodder cane, phalaris or more specialized erosion-control plants such as
vetiver grass) would also be promoted. Although these practices would result in quick yield improvements
and attractive financial returns, the initial investment can be quite large and discouraging, particularly to small
farmers, and thus it is essential for the project to promote a rapid adoption of these modem land management
techniques. The above strategy would be complemented with improved handling and disposal of agro-
chemicals and animal waste to reduce water pollution.
18.   To achieve the third objective of the technical strategy, i.e., to minimize water surface runoffs ability
to form gullies, efforts would be centered on constructing structures such as bunds, terraces and improved
drainage along rural roads. Since the handling of excessive runoff implies a collectively agreed control plan,
the success of the technical strategy would depend on the involvement of all land users within a
microcatchment (microbacia hidrografica). Finally, conservation reforestation would be encouraged along
water courses, in steeper areas, and in shallow or fragile soils unsuitable for agriculture.
19.   The project's technical strategy is based on a fairly well-known, although not yet widely used, set of
land management practices (Table B. 3). The choice of the most suitable techniques for a microcatchment
and/or farm would depend on its particular situation, esp_cially on the intensities of capital and labor used in
the particular fanming system. The project's technical strategy is detailed in the Implementation Manual,
prepared by CATI with the collaboration of research institutes, universities, and progressive farmers.
20.   Prior to any project intervention, each selected project municipality would enter into an agreement
with SAA specifying, inter alia, the need to implement the program in accordance with the Implementation
Manual, including maintenance of roads rehabilitated under the project, and to monitor implementation of
improved natural resource management practices at the microcatchment level. The CMDR would be
composed of representatives of the municipal government and local institutions concemed with the rural
sector (e.g., cooperatives, banks, associations, labor unions, agricultural research and extension institutions,
environmental institutions and representatives of the microcatchment associations). Microcatchments within
each municipality to be benefited under the project would be selected by the CMRD, assisted by the extension
service, based on the criteria outlined above.
C. Operational Strategy
21.   Land users within a selected microcatchment will be encouraged to form producers' associations or to
associate with existing ones. Assisted by the local extensionist, the microcatchment beneficiaries will
formalize their priorities and plan the required collective land and water management activities which would
be summarized in a Microcatchment Development Plan (PGM)." Coordinated by the extension agent, the
1I PGM Pano Glbl da Micobacins



- 50 -
PGM would be based on a socio-economic participatory survey of the microcatchment and the agroecological
maps to be produced under the project, and would identify the main sources of natural resource degradation
and infrastructure problems to be addressed under the project. The PGM would describe and map on- and
off-farm agronomic and environmental problems, and the proposed interventions with detailed cost estimates
specifying the major on- and off-farm constraints to be handled collectively.
22.   The implementation of on-farm conservation practices would follow an individual farm land-use plan,
PIP (plano individual de propriedades), to be prepared by the extension agent in close collaboration with
each individual farmer. A PIP would include: (a) schematic farm maps showing: (i) present land use; (ii)
potential land use; and (iii) planned actions to reconcile land use conflicts; and (b) a description of the land use
changes and soil conservation practices to be introduced under the project, including timetable, estimated
costs and expected yields and revenues. A number of PIPs may generate a plan for collective activities (PEC -
piano de empreendimentos coletivos). PIPs and PECs, as well as the contracts, would entitle farmers to. apply
for financial incentives foreseen under the project to induce implementation of most critical individual and
collective activities (Tables B.4-B.5). PIPs for small farmers would be prepared by the public extension
service (CATI and municipal extensionists) or by project-financed private extension services. Medium and
large farmers within the assisted microcatchment would be encouraged to contract their PIPs with private,
authorized technical assistance. The planning methodology of the PGM, PIPs and PECs, as well as the
contracts to be signed between the SAA and the farmers to benefit from project incentives, are included in the
Project Operational Manual.



CHART B.1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
SECRETARIAT OF AGRICULTURE AND SUPPLY ORGANISATION CHART
State Secretariat of
Agriculture and  Supply
(S. A. A.)
CoLKi        ---              rWc                                          Co wxdub&rn  Lini
(CA] 1)
gof InIeinw
bageinel AAIAM
_   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
Fn .i~;ilzi,nA o _ 
AilkuiL DIUm                               G                                             (A      4
ALi I)OILIe.I, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aK                                                            AhsmstaieAgwiddiwul
LJD  C T)                                                                                                                 Adgs S  kl,v             kiEwsataumo  Centre
Umt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~lelc d htenta  |
(kee-iu of AgLunslkl    Oia"    oMc,JIEXIU
rJelense                                             Itvelopseni  L                                                                                                           I )ivSsioA
(401 (3 AI           (401 E3 RA
I ouse o         Acoon.VUntoI u itm                               rf        ah         hv of UdianbkNcue                            Lk~ O    ceic al         Unit ci Tedlviuia
Of         AcCounting  Itanning      Unit ci human         Unit ci loasm andI   (_ianiotaIui and       Admi..latw
ID C Tt  l                                I) S M M                         bdwilla  Manager                       msttiiiege             A                  I                T,atster
AgmucuiwLe         and fanagfiet             ResoLwces         Assets (Pmhae)            Maintenances        Cosniunincabaon          htgaunT~s
In o m tm n_ __ _ _ __ _ ____      I   D  C_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ r______e_________



- 52 -
BRAZIL                        CHART B.2
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COORDINATING UNIT ORGANISATION CHART
State Government of Sao Paulo
Secretary of Agriculture
Coslatv         roetUitGnra  orantr-1 - - -|      Extemal Auciti
Commitee                                         CAL L H   Ti                    i
|Intemal Aucit Unit
DeDarTment of    Departnent of        Department of    Department of Seecs
Agriculture        Rural             Training and        and Seedlings
Defense        Extension          Communication
STATE
--I-----------
Regional                                 Regional Development
Development Unit [______________                  Commision
REGIONAL
Municioal
Development      -   -Agricultural Unit
Commision                                                                           M
--------------------------------
Producer Association                          4 - - - - - - - - -  ___   Extensionist
MICROCATCHNET



CHART B .3
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT ORGANISATION CHART
Project Management Unit
General Management Department
Technical Department                      ~~~~~Pla,ii inigi Depai tment      Finiancial and AdministrationiU
Teclhinical Departlmienlt                                 Plan n in(J DeinililDepartment
-Technical and Inslilutional Development Unit.                 - Strategic Planninig.
- Adaptive Research Unit.                                     - Environient Co-ordination Unit.        - Disbursement Unit.
- Incentives lo Natural Resource Management                    - Monitoring, Control and Evaluation.     Accounting Unit.
and Conservation.
- Rueal Roads Unit.
- Training and Dissemination Unit.
- Procurement and Contracting Unit.                                                                              STATE
Technical and        .Regional Units
Engmieeiing Uriil
REGIONAL
Exteiisionis-                                             MUNICIPAL



- 54 -
Annex B
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
TABLE B.1 PRIORITIZATION OF REGIONS
MUNICIPALlTIES
INDICES
NAME OF EDR          N of  EROSION            POVERTY ( % ) '          PRIORI`Y
I'
Munw.               > 25  20-   15-  10-  < 10
25   20    15
1    2      3     4     5
Andradina                13         1       1    2      7     2      -       1.2
Aracatuba                18        1        1    6      9     2      -       1.2
Araraquara               16        2        -     -    2      7     7        2.2
Assis                    16         1       3     3     6    4       -       1.2
Avari                    12        2        -    5      5      1     I       2.1
Barretos                 18        2        -      1    11    7      -       2.2
Bauru                    15         1       -    2      8    4       1       1.2
Botucatu                 11         1       -     1    7      3      -       1.2
Braganga Paulista        17        2         -     1    8    4       2       2.2
Cwnpinas                 17        2        -     -    2      5    10        2.3
Catanduva                18        2        -    2    12    4        -       2.2
Dracena                  17         1       -    9      7     2              1.1
Fernand6polis            12         1       -    5    6        1     -       1.2
Franca                   13        2        -    5      6     2      1       2.2
General Salgado          21        1        5     6    9      1      -       1.1
Guaratingueti            18        3        2     8     -     a      -       3.1
ItapetininRa             14        2        -    8      5      1     -       2.1
Itapeva                  15        2        -    10    1       -     -       2.1
Jaboticabal              14        2        -     -    3    10    1          2.2
Jales                    22         1       1    12    9       1     -       1.1
Jau                      14        2        -     -    2    10    2          2.2
Limeira                  14        2         -          4     2     7        2.3
Lins                     13         1             9     3      1           _ 1.1



- 55 -
MUNICIPALTES
INDICES
NAME OF EDR    N of EROSION                      POVERTY ( % ) a            PRIORITY
1/ -_
Munic.                > 25   20-   15-   10-  < 10
25    20    15
1     2      3     4      5
Man'lia                    13         1         -     6      6      1     -         1.1
Mogi das Cruzes            12         3               2      3     6      1        3.2
Mogi Mirim                 11         2                      1     9      4        2.2
Orlindia                   12         2               1      6     4      1        2.2
Ourinhos                   17         1         2     6      7     1      -        1.1
Pindanonhangaba            21         3         2     6      1     8      4        3.2
Piracicaba                 16         2         -     -      1     3      12       2.3
PresidentePrudente         21         1         3     7      9      1     -         1.1
Presidente Venceslau       11         1         2     5      3      -              1.1
Registro                   15         3         4     7      5      -     -        3.1
RibeiraoPreto              19         2         -      1     3     10    4         2.2
S. Joao da Boa Vista       16         2               3      3     7      1        2.2
SAo Jose do Rio Preto     24          1               3     17    2       1        1.2
Sio Paulo                 36          3         1     1      4   11      18        3.3
Sorocaba                   19         2               2      7     6      4        2.2
Tupi                       14         1         2     4      6            -        1.1
Votuporanga                11         1         -     4      5     3               1.2
I/    Susceptibility to soil erosion coefficient takes into account potential soil erosion, soil degradation
expectations, existing erosion, concentration of small farmers and land use based on a technical survey
carried out by the Institute of Technology and Research as the basis for the project fonnulation.
2/    Poverty coefficient measures the concentration of families with less than two basic salaries per month based
on "Cojuntura AlimentWria" prepared by SAA from information from Mapa do Fome of IPAE, Institute of
Applied Research.



- 56 -
Annex B
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
TABLE B.2 RANING OF PRIORITY AREAS
Level                     1. Ranking1l
State                    Priority Areas            % of Resources by Area
1                            70
2                             27
3                             3
Priority Area                                     Order for project Response
1                      1.1                             1
1.2                            2
2.1                            3
2                      2.2                             4
2.3                            5
3                      3.1                             6
3.2                            7
3.3                            8
I/ First algorithm rpsnts erosion, while the second is given by the poverty raning.
MICROCATCHMENTS BY PRIORITY REGION
Pr. r   Nt .   N              Ne of         ff of Total      Average No.of    Average No. of
Area   M cipali    Microcatchmects  Micrctchments   Microcatchaet  Microcatchents
.______  _______ per Municipality  in 1 year
1             310          1,050               70.0               3.39         175
2             234            405               27.0               1.73           68
3             102             45                3.0               0.44            7
TOTAL            646          1,500               100                              250



BRAZIL
LAND MANAEENT I PROJECT
Tub  D.: Tudlcal  ytm   for the MIcohn,t PrO_sc
MEAMMJT~ THAT AC~T ON:
C = SOIL COVERt
E-SURFACERUNOFF                           STRA TE     aa a  _ ci  _  ct   ci           a C- _a icii            c       aCi Cl|ciCc     E E E       E| E    E E    E C E   IP |PC P
I a INFILTRATION
P * POLLU                             ,ilnl  il                                                       , O  I 1 ICW
.141
PROCLEMS MD STATEGIES
WATERt _tOSI_                                                                         L__
Coiec SW urn
icreAse residusi
Maitain resikkals
Rolum am nuIuwfwsIin
Reduc. ml comowtion
nroalm oranic mlItSfii
-Seistm reft of madhk*M
aw*sdureamnea fsla runoff
-~So* condudin of surftce runof!
SML DEGRADATIO
PoLLLTMO OF WATE 11PRIOO
'I*ulud MWi ensig of sel dearadlon
takuc saJMbMf of my%*wd
LOW PROmXJTrmT
InLuewk* ensigoln or sell demoareniei
AWh  bAm  P_                                                         _         --_-



Annex B
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
Table B.4 Incentive Fund for Soil Management and Conservation and Pollution
Beneficiaries, Sub-projects and Support Limits
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 MIN 'g,..  
eGreen Manure               PP,MP,GP        3 ha         70,00      210,00        70,00     100 0    100 0     100 0    100,0
* Reahgnment of Fann Pnces   PP,MP,GP    0,8 KM                     712,00       890,00                50,0     50,0      50,0      30,0   30,
O
* Soil Conservation            PP          25 ha        120,00     3000,00       120,00      50,0      50,0     50,0      30,0      30,0
* (Small tractor)              MP          25 ha        120,00     3000,00       120,00      30,0      30,0     30,0      20,0      20,0                   U
* Soil Conservation            PP          25 ha         25,00      625,00        25,00      50,0      50,0     50,0      30,0      30,0                   co
* (Large tractor)              MP          25 ha         25,00      625,00        25,00      30,0      30,0     30,0      20,0      20,0
* Retention Structure          PP          20 ha         16,00      320,00        16,00      50,0      50,0     50,0      30,0      30,0
MP          20 ha         16,00      320,00        16,00      30,0      30,0     30,0      20,0      20,0
*  Water Supply System      GI       UM P/ GRUPO                4900,00      4900,00      70,0      70,0     50,0      50,0      30,0
Tipo I e l              G2       UM P/ GRUPO                4900,00      4900,00       50,0     50,0      30,0     30,0      20,0
*  Water Supply System      GI       UM P/ GRUPO               16000,00     16000,00      70,0      70,0     50,0      50,0      30,0
Tipo mI                  G2       UM P/ GRUPO               16000,00     16000,00      50,0      50,0     30,0      30,0      20,0
*  Equipment                GI       UM P/ GRUPO                 850,00       850,00      70,0      70,0     50,0      50,0      30,0
(Deep Ripper)            G2       UM P/ GRUPO                 850,00       850,00      50,0      50,0     30,0     30,0       20,0
*  Lime Spreader            GI       UM P/ GRUPO                1450,00      1450,00      70,0      70,0     50,0      50,0      30,0
G2       UM P/ GRUPO I_ _    1450,00             1450,00      50,0     50,0      30,0     30,0       20,0
*  Other equipment          GI       UM PI GRUPO                1543,00      1543,00      70,0      70,0     50,0      50,0      30,0
G2       UM P/ GRUPO                1543,00      1543,00      50,0     50,0      30,0     30,0       20,0
Obs: 0 limite miximo para teraceamaiD ser de 25 hapor baeficikio                                  01 - Group I (at lead60% hd PP)
PP -nu produew                                                                                    02- Group 2 ssthn 60% ofpp)
MP -medium producer                                                                               GP - Lap pducer



- 59 -
Annex B
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT mI PROJECT
Table B.5 Incentive for Recovery of Degraded Lands
Beneficiaries, Sub-Projects, and Support Limits
Fzm
Zolt ofGulb          PP"           40 hs           1120,00             29,00      100     100       100     100       100      100
(Voqo0-c)
MP"            20 h            560,00             28,00      100      100      100      100      100       100
2. C
- Reduced Tillap  Amoi6on          0102           15.000,00         15.000,00     100      100      100      100      100       100
E4upnont
-ni& Rdler        Aumoction        0102            5.000,00          5.00000      100      100      100      100      100       100
"Small Farmer
20 Medium Farmer



- 60 -
ANNEX C:
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS






- 61 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Financial and Economic Benefits
A. Financial Benefits
1.    Six rainfed farm models, representative of the eight agricultural regions (DIRAs) with
major concentration of microcatchments (Regions 1 through 8), were analyzed to test the
impact of improved land management and soil conservation practices on the yield of major
crops (Table C. 8). Five of the models are small-scale farms: two fully mechanized (System
C) -- one with soybeans and maize, and winter wheat cropping, and the other with soybeans,
cotton and maize; three models (one of which is a medium-scale farm) are characterized by
mixed farming resulting from the combination of coffee and maize or cotton and maize
production (System B) with milk or beef cattle. Finally, the last small-scale farm represents
the typical association of maize with double-cropped beans. The illustrative models take into
account aRl improved land management and pollution control practices that would be
gradually adopted by the farmers (linear increase in productivity varying from 11 to 150%
over 5 to 7 years in the "with project" situation). The financial rates of return before financing
and subsidies range from 13 to 40%. The projected increases in crop yields under the various
farming systems range from 11 to 150% for grains, cotton and coffee, to 66-100% for milk
and beef production as shown in Table C.8.
2.    The increased productivity would result from the adoption of land management
practices adapted to each farming system as follows: (a) System B, a combination of contour
fanning and strip-cropping, low-cost vegetative contour barriers with reduced tillage, liming,
inclusion of winter (and, where feasible, summer) green manuring in crop rotation, improved
use of agro-chemicals and some reforestation; and (b) System C, a combination of contour
fanning and strip-cropping, bunding and/or terracing with reduced tillage, inclusion of winter
(or summer) green manuring in crop rotation, and improved use of agro-chemicals.
Substantial on-farm savings are expected to result from the adoption of improved land
preparation (reduced tillage through the elimination of heavy disc plowing combined with the
periodical use of deep rippers) and fertilizing (reduced use of chemical fertilizers combined
with increased green manuring and improved use of crop residues). In the case of dairy farm
and beef cattle farm models, increased milk and beef productivity is expected from the
combination of pasture rehabilitation, through proper crop/pasture rotation, with increased
area planted to forage and improved animal husbandry. For a summary of land management
practices, see Tables C. 1 through C.7. Details of recommended practices for each crop and
farm model are available in the project file. Adoption rates of land management technologies
are shown in Table C.9. Net annual farm benefits from the main crops, which currently vary



- 62 -
between US$2,700 and US$11,700, would increase, at full development (Year 10-11), to a
range of US$3,400 to US$20,800.
3.    Within the 4.5 million ha of farmland approximately covered by the 1,500
microcatchments in the project area, about 1.17 million ha (21% of area currently under
annual crops, 6% of area under perennial crops and 41% of area under pasture) are expected
to fully benefit from improved land management and soil conservation practices and some
commercial reforestation. These developments, valued on a per ha of commodity basis, are
expected to lead at full development (Year 10-11) to an annual incremental output value of
US$300 million. Fifty percent of this amount would come from increased productivity of
coffee, 41% from the four other major crops (cotton, maize, soybeans and beans) and 9%
from improved milk and beef production. These expanded agricultural activities would also
create new on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to about 5,000 man-years annually.
4.   In addition to the above incremental production and employment opportunities, the
project is expected to generate other substantial benefits such as: (a) reduced maintenance
costs of microcatchment rural roads; (b) reduced water treatment cost; (c) reduced
sedimentation and silting of river beds and reservoirs; and (d) reduced flooding.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
5.    The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be 19% over a 20-year period
(Table C. 11). The cost stream for the economic analysis is based on four elements: (a) all on-
farm investment and operating costs, valued on a per hectare of commodity basis, for the
development of 1.17 million ha of farmland resulting from the adoption rates outlined in para.
3; (b) all project costs except those related to the soil conservation (SC) fund (already
included in on-farm investments) and the conservation reforestation; (c) estimated incremental
costs for private extension (cooperatives); and (d) incremental recurrent costs after project
completion reduced by 50%/0 from Year 10 on.
6.   Incremental net benefits were estimated on a per hectare basis of commodities
produced on about 1.17 million ha of farmland expected to fully benefit from improved land
management and soil conservation practices and some commercial reforestation in the 1,500
project microcatchments.
7.    Economic prices (Table C. 10) at the farmgate were derived from the main trade
goods, including soybeans, wheat, maize, cotton, coffee and chemical fertilizers, taking into
account international trade prices, freight, insurance, port handling, marketing, transport and
processing costs with price trends projected according to those estimated by the Bank's
International Commodity Markets Division at 1997 constant prices. Permanent farm labor
was applied a specific conversion factor of 0.4 to eliminate transfer payments (in particular,
new social security rates), and all other outputs and inputs were adjusted by the standard
conversion factor (0.9) to account for domestic price distortions.



- 63 -
8.    Sensitivity tests (Table C. 12) show that the rate of return is moderately insensitive to
either possible variations in costs and benefits or delays in achieving project res.  If
benefits fail by 10%, or project costs rise by 10%, the rate of return would stil be 14%. A
one-year lag in achieving project results would reduce the rate of return to 13.5, still above
the estimated opportunity cost of capital.



- 64 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
Table C.1 Basic Parameters in the Definition of Production Models
Model      Property               Actity               Technology    Activity Area          PEMBH Priority Regio
Ae (ha)                                                        (ha)
Soybeans                             C              30        I (Assis)
I           40      SumierMilho Safiinba                 C               38
Corn                                 C               8
Others                                               2
Dairy cows                           B              15        L I (Avar6, Botcatu, Itpetininga,
Coffee                               B              10        Amparo, Braganca Paulista,
II          33       Corn                                 B               5        Marilia, Ourinhos, Sta. Cruz Rio
Others                                               3        Pardo, Bauru, Sao Joa6 Rio Preto,
Araqatuba,Presidente Pndente)
Soybems                              C              15        II (Ituverava, OrlMndia,Casa Bran-
m            33      Cotton                               C               9           ca, SAo Job Boa Vista, Mogi
com                                  C               8          Mirim, Baretos)
Others                                               1
Pasture for work                                              ILI (Itamra, Itapeva)
animals                                              3
Rainfed beans                        B               8
IV           20      Dryland bams                         B               8
Corn                                 B               8
Othes                                                1
Dairy cows                           C              14        II (Batatais,Franca, Ribeiro Pre
V           30      Coffee                                C               8          to, Sao Jose do Rio Pardo)
Corn                                 B               7
Others                                               1
Beef cattle                          B              40        I (Arawatuba, Andradina, Pereira
VI           65      Codt lum s                           B               10         Barreto, Birigui, General Salga-
Corn                                 B              10          do, Presidente Prudente, Presi-
Others                               B               5          dente Venceslau)



iii     ii§9|         2
ft  30  f 1X|  
i3 jti 5 
lX t0 t0 
3  }|9|9    fi _  
59



ir~~~~~ i i
___- - - - -             w
[     i    l   X
I   ij |F -E_i~
Wi----i-
-99- 



Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table C.4 Types of Crops and Water and Soil Conservation Actions
MODEL Im
1st YEAR                              2nd YEAR                     _         3rd YEAR           _                   4th YEAR         |       _|
Suinrner           Winter             Sumrer              Winter             Sumner              Winter              Sunr                Winter
Rotation       Earty soybeans      Green manure          Cotton                                Soybeans                                 Corn
Plan
Corn                             Soybeans Precoce     Green manure           Cotton                                Soybeans
Soybeans                                 Corn                             Soybeans Precooe     Green manure           Cotton
Cotton                               Soybean                                  Corn                               Early soybeans      Green manure
Terracing        Incorporation of green  Integrated pes  Incorporation of     Integrated pest    Incorporasao do    Integrated pat    Incrporation of
manure               managmnent        green manure         Management                             managemrent       green manure
Water and Soil  Level plating                          - MIP                                  - MIP             Green manure         - MIP                                        s
Conservation
Actions
Liming                                HarrowIng
Integrated pest
management
-MIP
Harrowing



Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
Table C.5 Types of Crops and Water and Soil Conservation Actions
MODEL IV
Ist YEAR                                     2nd YEAR                                      3rd YEAR
Wet                    Dry                    Wet                    Dry                    Wet                    Dry
Piano                  Beans                  Beans                  Corn               Green mnanure              Beans                  Beans
Rotacional               Beans                  Beans                  Beans                  Beans                  Corn               Green manure
Corn               Green manure              Beans                  Beans                  Beans                  Beans
Terracing              Direct planting        Terrace maintenance    Direct planting        Terrace maintenance    Direct planting         a
0)
AV6es de        Direct planting        Green mnanure          Direct planting        Green manure           Direct planting        Green manure
Conservagio de    Liming
Agua e Solo



Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT mI PROJECT
Table C.6 Types of Crops and Water and Soil Conservation Actios
MODEL V
It YEAR         2.4 YEAR          3rd YEAR         4th YEAR    | 5t YEAR              6th YEAR          7|  YEAR         5thYEAR
Corn +           Corn +           Pasture          Pastur            Pasure           Pasture           Pasture          Pasture
Green manure        Pasture
Rotation          Pasture          Pasture           Corn +           Corn +           Pasture           Pasture          Pasture           Past
Plan
Green manure        Pasture
Pasture          Pasture          Pasture           Pasture           Corn +           Corn +           Pasture           Pasure
Green manure        Pasture
Pasture          Pasture          Pasture           Pasure           Pasture           Pas"ture          Comr +           Cor +
Green mnureA        Pasture
Level panting    Pasture Reform    Level plantn     Pastu  reform    Level planting    Pasture  form    Levl plnt         Pas"r reform
Water and Soil  Uming                              Umg                               Uming                              UmLng
Conseewatn
Acfons
Green manure                       Green manure                      Green manure                       Green manure
Pasture Dision                     Pasture Dision



- 70 -
US
U      !- - - -1 - 
23I i 5 _ill I 
3 U j ii I it
__gi -- 15t~



Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
Table C.3 Principal Crop Yields
CROPS              UNIT         YIELD      YIELD WITH    AVERAGE   INCREASED IMPLEMEN-
WITHOUT       PROJECT   STATE YIELD 11 PRODUCTI-  TATION
PROJECT                                   VITY       PERIOD
COTTON B                  KGIHA               1900         2550           1780    34%       5 YEARS
COTTONC                   KG/HA               2300         3100           1780    35%       5 YEARS
COFFEEB                   KG/HA               600           1100           810    83%       7YEARS
COFFEEC                   KGMA                720           1500           810    108%      7YEARS
BEANS B                   KG/HA               480           1200           960   150%       5 YEARS
RAINFED BEANS             KG/HA               720           1200           960    67%       5 YEARS
DRYLAND BEANS             KGHA                720           1320           991    83%       5 YEARS
LOW-TECHNOLOGY MILK   L/COWNYEAR              700           1400           750   100%       6 YEARS
MILK C                  L/COWNYEAR            1500         2497            900    66%       20 YEARS
CORNIVELVETBEAN          KG/YEAR              3000          3800          3462    27%       5 YEARS
CONS.I
CORN/VELVETBEAN          KG/YEAR              3000          3800          3462    27%       5 YEARS
CONS.2
CORN FOLLOWED BT         KG/YEAR              2640          3800          3462    44%       5YEARS
PASTURE
CORNC                    KG/YEAR              3960          4400          3462    11%      5YEARS
SUMMER CORN              KG/YEAR              2200         3700           2343    68%       5 YEARS
BEEF CATFLE             KG/HA/YEAR             130          260            175   100%       7 YEARS
SOYBEANS                 KG/YEAR              2100         2600           2106    24%       5 YEARS
1/ Sou: Aglcuhral Econora 1mut, Fcnaray 1997; 19961197 dAL



Anex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT-SAO PAULO
Table C.9 Adoption Rates for Proposed Technologies
CROP           UNIT         STATE'S        VIEL          YIELD         IMPLE-       ADOPTION    No. OF
AReA                       AVERAGE  WITHO11T   WITH   MENTATION   RATE   PRODU.                                           N.OF1 IARMS ASSISTED                           No OF FARMS Wfl ADOPTION(mumid a"
(IA)                        YIELDI/   PROJEcT    PROJECT              PERIOD          (%)J         CERS                                                                                egamukau"v 1das
(YEARS)
YEAR YEAR  YEAR YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR YEAR  YEAR YEAR  YEAR  YEAR
3                3        4         5 4  S                      2        3        4         5        6
MODELI                                                                                                                   13,580     1,800    2340    2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340        630      819       819      t19       819      819
Soybe                  30           kg4ye           2106          2100          2600            S            35%                                                                             630     1,449    2,268    3.087    3.906    4.725
Com C                   8           k0car           3462          3960          4460            5             35%
Corn (Wink)            38           kg/ye           2343          2200          3700            1             35%
TOTAL AREA             38                                                                                    35%
MODEL I                                                                                                                  36,000     4,300    6.240    6,240    6,240    6,240    6.240       720      936       936      936      936       936
Dauy cattle            15         L/cow/year         750           700          1400            9             15%                                                                            720     1,656    2,392    3,528    4,464    5,400
CoffeeB                10            kh              s810          600          1100            6             10%
Com B                   5           kgl/year        3462          3000          3800            1             25%
TOTAL AREA             30                                                                                    15%
MODELm                                                                                                                    4,500      600      740      710      730       780     7n0        210      273      273       273      273       273
Soybn                  IS5          kg/year         2106          2100          2600            5            35%                                                                             210      483      756      1,029    1.302    1,575
coOouc                  9            kga            1780          2300          3100            5            35%
Corn C                  8           kg/year         3462          3960         4460             5            35%
TOTAL AREA             32                                                                                    35S%
MODELIV                                                                                                                  13,50      1,800    2340    2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340        450      585       s58      585      585       515
Animal pasture          3                                                                                                                                                                    450     1,035    1,620    2205    2790    3,375
IlTlgad bca            8            kwh             960           720          1200            6            25%
Drylnd bes              8            kwh             991           720          1320            6            25%
Com B                   8           k/yr            3462          3000          3300            1             25%
TOTAL AREA             20                                                                                    25%
MODELV                                                                                                                    4,500      600      780      780      780       710      730       109      142       142      342       142      142
Dairy cale             14         L/cow/year         750           700          1400            9             15%                                                                            109      251       392      534       676      313
coffeeC                 8            kg              31S0          720          1500            7             20%
Com B                   7           kgyear          3462          3000          3800            1            25%
TOTALAREA              30                                                                                    18%
MODEL VI                                                                                                                 33,000    2,400    3,120    3,120    3,120    3,120    3,120        360      468      463       468      461       468
Beefcatle              40          kg/a/ye           130           260          175             9             109.                                                                           360      828      1,296    1,764    2,232    2,700
CottonB                 30           kgha           1780          1900          2550            5            25%
ComTB                   I 0         kgyear         3462          3000          3800            1            25%
TOTALAR-KA             60                                                                                    35%
TOTAL                                                                                                                      ,000    32,00   85,6       10    1           15W     15,60     4,8    8,924   12,147   18,378   1593   21,315
4,958    13382   243     41,599  5S9,M2   8,7
MICROCATCH                                                                                                                           lee      240      260     210        2        26
I/ Sete  Aerisslra Econmics Insituite Febuy 1997. 19961997 daL; 2 Adohptin rAes per cop resut fom fl racarcth 3/An stimae  60 fae per miao4admA



- 73 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
Table C.10 Principal Prices Used for Pnancial and Economic Analysis
Commodities 1/                                               1997       1998      2000      2005
1. Soybean (export crop)
CIF Rotterdam (USS\ton)                                       289        287       310        354
Minus Freight&In.                                               35        35         35        35
F.O.B. Santos                                                 254        252       275        319
Minus Port handling,storage,ik                                  15        15         15        15
Transport to port                                         18         18        18         18
Farmpte price (USS\ton)                                       221        219       242        286
Farmgate pric (RSUkg.)2/                                      0.24      0.24       0.26      0.31
Price used in cc. analysis                                    0.24
Financial price                                               0.22     -
2. Coffee (export crop)
C.LF New York (USS\kg.)                                       2.35      2.20       2.27      2.57
Minus Freight&hns.                                            0.08      0.08       0.08      0.08
F.O.B. Santos                                                 2.27      2.12       2.19      2.49
Minus:Port handling, gradin, mark                             0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02
Transport to port                                       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02
Farmgate price (USSUcg)                                       2.23      2.08       2.15      2.45
Fanmgate price (RS\k&)2/                                      2.43      2.26       2.33      2.66
Price used in cc. analysis                                    2.43
Financial price                                               1.68               -
3.Cotton (export crop)
C.LF Europe (USS\ton)                                         1764      1799       1977      2199
Minus Freight&Ins.                                              60        60         60        60
F.O.B. Santos                                                 1704      1739       1917      2139
Minus:Port handling, storage, mark.                            20         20         20        20
Transport to port                                         35         35        35         35
Ex-Factory price                                              1649      1684       1862      2084
Minus processimg/ transp.to fiatory                           220        220       220        220
Fanmgate price (USS\ton)                                      1429      1464       1642      1864
Seed price (RS\kg.)31                                         0.54       0.56      0.62       0.71
Price used in ec. analysis                                    0.54
Financial price                                               0.44     -
4. Maize (import substitute)F.O.B. Gulf Port (USS\ton)           121       123        128       143
Plus Freight&Ins.                                              20         20        20         20
C.I.F.Santos                                                  141        143        148       163
Plus:Port handling, storage, mark                               10        10         10        10
Wholesale Market                                              151        153        158       173
Minus tmnsport to W.M.                                          10        10         10        10
Farmgate price (USS\ton)                                       141       143        148       163
Farngate price (RSkg.)                                        0.15      0.16       0.16      0.18
Price used in cc. analysis                                    0.15
Financial price                                               0.12
5. Urea F.O.B. NW Europe (USSWton)                               192       185        179       200
Plus Freight&Ins.                                              30         30        30         30
CIF. Santos                                                   222        215       209        230
Plus:Port handling,storage,xnar.                                15        1 5        15        1 5
Transport to farm                                          10         10        10         10
Farmgate pnce (USS/ton)                                       247        240       234        255
Farmgate price (RS/kg)                                        0.27      0.26       0.25      0.28
Price used in ec. analysis                                    0.27
Financial price                                               0.34
1/ World Bank Price projeoce Februy 1997
2/ A ed RS I=USS O,n
3/ 35% after owvesion to RS price.



Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT IIm PROJECT
Table C. 11 Project Costs By Component And Subcomponent
BUDGET (USS'000)
COMPONENTS AND SUBCOMPONENTS                 YEAR 1    YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5    YEAR 6                 TOTAL
Institutional and Technological Development          6,880.70    7,048.60    6,135.30    5,190.00    5,241.90    5,359.30  35,855.70
* Rural Extension                                    3,912.40    5,631.20    4,973.20    4,004.60    4,053.40    4,114.80  26,689.60
* Rural Organization                                  457.10      606.10     618.20      630.60     643.20     656.00      3,611.20
* Agro-ecological Mapping                            2,511.20     811.30     544.00      554.90     545.30     588.40      5,555.00
Adaptive Agricultural Research                         395.90     882.20     668.10      436.60     468.30     434.10       3,285.20
Incentive Program for Natural Resource Management    4,548.10    7,328.60    6,859.60    6,141.20    5,392.40    3,401.90  33,671.80
Conservation
* Environmental Education                              190.90     106.20     113.80       93.60      95.50      97.40        697.40           4
* Incentive Fund for Soil Management and Conservation    2,918.90    4,347.40    3,923.60    3,169.00    2,360.80  306.90  17,029.40
and Pollution Control
* Incentive for Recovery of Degraded Lands            763.60    1,068.10    1,089.50    1,111.30    1,133.50    1,156.20   6,322.10
* Forestry Development                                  10.70    1,566.90    1,598.20    1,630.20    1,662.80    1,696.00   8,164.80
* State Enviromnent Law Enforcement                   664.00      240.00     134.50      137.10     139.90      142.70      1,458.20
Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads              2,760.40    5,634.00    5,746.70    5,861.60    5,978.80    6,098.40  32,079.90
Training and Communication                           2,784.30    2,100.20    1,922.50    2,014.20    1,985.60    2,007.20  12,823.90
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation    1,367.90     937.10     955.90    1,186.00     991.60    1,585.20      7,023.70
Total COSTS                                         18,737.20   23,940.70   22,288.10   20,829.50   20,058.60   18,886.10    124,740.20



- 75 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table C.12 Project Financing Plan By Project Component
(USS million)
STATE OF SAO
COMONENTS AND SUBCMPONENTS                       IBRD           PAULO           TOTAL
1d_ttsml ami T        1chaaical Drwd_nemt                7.1             28.7             35.8
* Rural Extension -3.4                                                   23.3            26.7
* Rural Organization                                     1.9              1.7              3.6
* Agro-ecoa Mapping                                      1.8              3.7             S.S
Adaptive Agricultural Research                           0.8              2.5              3.3
Ineative Pogm for Natural Resource Maagement            21.8             11.9             33.7
Conservation                                       _______
Ea ucation                                              0.4              0.3              0.7
* Incentive Fund for Soil anagent and Conservation      11.9              5.1             17.0
and Polution Control
* Incentive forRowcoryofDegraded Lands                   4.1              2.2              6.3
. Forsty Development                                     5.0              3.2              8.2
Stat EnAiromen Law Enforcement                          0.4              1.1              1.5
ErosOn COrol WOk alongRwa Roads                         18.1             14.0             32.1
| Tlaig and    C      i                           |      2.2             10.6             12.8
Projec    tatiMi ing and Evaluation                      5.0              2.0              7.0
TOTAL                                                   55.0             69.7            124.7



- 76 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT HI PROJECT
Table C.13 Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cdepry                                    A                 % of Expenditures to be Finaced
(USS equivaent)
Civil Woib                                  16,200,000      55%
Goods                                       13,000,000      1009/e of foreign expenditures and 65% of
local expendites
Technical Assis_nce                          7,900,000      100%l. of foreign expenditues, 1000% of
local expendiures
Training                                      1,000,000     55%
Incentive Program Grants                     11,900,000    70%/a of amounts disbursed
Unalocated                                   5,000,000
TOTAL                                       55,000,000



- 77 -
Annex C
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table C.14 ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(USS Millions)
Bank Fisca Year        Quarter Ending      Disbursement during        Cumulative
Quarter            Disbursement
Amount       % of
Total
1998                  March31, 1998
June 30, 1998                  2.0              2.0         3
1999                  September 30, 1998              1.2             3.2          6
December31, 1998               1.6              4.8         9
March31, 1999                  2.2              7.0         13
June 30, 1999                  2.5              9.5         17
2000                  September 30, 1999              2.8             12.3        22
December 31, 1999              2.8              15.1        28
March 31, 2000                 2.9              18.0        33
June 30, 2000                  2.9             20.9         38
2001                  September 30, 2000              2.6             23.5        43
December 31, 2000              2.5              26.0        47
March 31, 2001                 2.5              28.5        52
June 30, 2001                  2.5             31.0         56
2002                  September 30, 2001              2.2             33.2        60
December 31, 2001              2.2              35.4        64
March 31 2002                  2.2              37.6        68
June 30, 2002                  2.2              39.8        72
2003                  September 30, 2002              2.1             41.9        76
December 31, 2002              2.1              44.0        80
March 31, 2003                 2.0              46.0        84
June 30, 2003                  2.0             48.0         87
2004                  September 30, 2003              1.8             49.8        90
December31, 2003               1.8              51.6        94
March31, 2004                  1.7              53.3        97
_  June 30, 2004                1.7              55.0       100






- 78 -
ANNEXD:
MONITORING TARGETS AND INDICATORS






- 79 -
Annex D
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Table D.1 Key Indicators of Project Performance
Illiimoact lndicator                             _I_I               -
Small                                            un          49,500 1
Medium                                           un          27,000
Larqe                                            un          13,500
lfiysIcal and Imnancial Indicators
Technological and Institutional Development
Component
Rural Extension Subcomponent
Microcatchment Development Plan                    un           1,500
No. of PIP, prepared                               un          90,000
No. of PEC, prepared                               un           3,750
Working Visits                                                 90,000
Orientation Visits                               _            270,000
Meetings                                                       18,000
Seminars                                        _               9,000
Field Days                                                      1,500
Results Demonstrations                                          1,500
Methods Demonstration                           __X_____        1,500
Study tours  X                                                  1,500
Agroecological Mapping Subcomponent
Municipal Location Map of the MBH                  un           1,500
Topographical Map of the MBH,                      un           1,500
Map of Soil Types of the MBH                       un   1_500
MBH Structural Land Tenure And Actual Uses Maps    un 1_500
MBH Environmental Risks Maps                       un           1,500
Potential Land Use Maps                            un          90,000
Rural Arrangement Subcomponent
No, of associations established/reorganized        un           1,500
Adaptative Research Component
Technology Generation Projects                     un             40
Technology Adaptation Projects                     un            270
Natural Resources Conservation and Management
Incentives Component       _
Environmental Education Subcomponent        -
Identification and Training of Environmental Monitoring  un     1,500
_-t,m¢tAvsvfnWnTra^o  -komPo«tlFriucaun  1.500
_ MINQ                                           l 1        _ smi



- 80 -
__~~~~~M
Management Incentives Subcomiponent
No. of groups benefied                             un           3,410
- Water Supply Systems Built                       un    _      1,240
- Purchased Machinery and Equipment                      _    _un  2,170
No. of Farmers Benefted                            un         21,840
- Green Manure Seeds                               ha           8,820
- Fencing                                          km           5,200
- Terracing BuildinD for Soil Conservation         ha        279,00_0
- Soil Retention Structures                        ha    __24,800
Incentfves for Sol/ Recovery Subcomponent       _               2,250
No. of Groups Benefited                            un          2,250
- Control of Sheer and Gully Erosion               un            2,250
- Equipment Purchased                              un             340
- Associations Assisted                            un             170
Reforestaton Subcomponente
- Reforested Area                                  ha           13,500
- No. of Seedlings Produced                        un       18,000.000
State Environmental Law Enforcement Subcom    ent        _ _X
-Land Use Law Enforcement                         Prod          90,000
-Control of Incentives Enforcement                Prod           6,900
Rural Roads Improvement Subcomponent 
Roads Improved                                     Km            6,000
Training and Dissemination Component
- UGP Staff                                      0 un X   X        18
- Regional Managers                                un              40
- Monitors Level 1                                 un              24
- Monftom Level 2                                  un              24
- UTE Technical Engineers                        _un               24
- UTE Technicians                                  un              48
- Law Enforcement Officers                         un              24
- Senior Extensionists                             un             400
- Junior Extensionists                             un             200
- Group Leaders                                    un            3,440
- Private Extensionists                            un             ISO
- Farmers Trained                                  un          W,000



- 81 -
Annex D
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT m PROJECT
Tabk D.2 Key Annual Dates for Project Supervision
Date                            Activity/Report
March 31            Annual project implementation progress report due to the Bank.
Such report to include the findings of the Internal Controls and
Audit Unit in accordance with Terms of Reference included in
the Implementation Manual.
April/May           Full Bank Supervision Mission, including technical review,
assessment of administrative procedures and internal controls,
and ex-post review of SOEs and of procurement procedures and
contracts.
June 30             Annual project audit report on previous financial year due to the
Bank for review. TORs for such an audit are included the the
Implementation Manual.
August              Semi-annual progress implementation progress report due to the
Bank.
September           Draft annual operating plan and budget for the following project
year presented to the Bank for review.
October/November    Full Bank Supervision Mission.
December 31         Approved annual operating plan and budget for the foliowing
year presented to the Bank.



- 82 -
Annex D-3
BRAZIL
sAo PAULO LAND MANAGEMENT ]][ PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
General Documents:
1.    Manual - Sistema Estadual Integrado de Agricultural e Abastecimento, margo
1997
2.    Documento de Orientacio da Programacaio de Assisteicia T6cnica e Extenslo
Rural da CATI, setembro 1996
3.    Projeto LUPA (Levantamento Censitario de Unidades de Produc,io
Agropecuiria)- Manual de Instru95es de Campo
4.    Atlas do Zoneamento Agricola do Estado de Sao Paulo
5.    Uma Mensagem ao Agricultor - Projeto Escola no Campo, 1996
6.    Cadeia Produtiva de Texteis de Algodao, marco de 1997
7.    Plano de A,co Emergencial - Implanta,co e Manejo de Unidades de Conserva,co,
1993-1994
8.    Macrozoneamento do Complexo Estuarino-Lagunar do Iguape e Cananeia - Plano
de Gerenciamento Costeiro
9.    Agricultural Economy of Sao Paulo (Economia agricola paulista: carateristicas e
potencialidades) - in LAC Files - ISN 540752
10.   Agricultural Projections 1992-1993 (Relatorio-Serie Informagc3es Economicas) --
in LAC Files -ISN 540750
Legal Documents:
1.    Resolu,co Secretarial, August 19, 1997. Designa os integrantes da Unidade de
Gerenciamento do Programa Estadual de Microbacias Hidrograficas e Define as
Respectivas Atribuioes.
2.    Lei Estadual N° 6117, July 4, 1988. Dispoe sobre o uso, conservac,o e
preserva;Ao do solo agricola.
3.    Lei Estadual N' 8421, November 23, 1993. Altera a redac,o de dispositivos da
Lei n° 6.171, de 04 de julho de 1988, que dispoe sobre uso, conserva,co e preserva,co do
solo agricola e di outras providencias.
4.    Lei N° 8.171, January 17, 1997. Dispoe sobre a politica agraria.
5.    Decreto N 41.719, April 16, 1997. Regulamenta a Lei n° 6.171, de 4 de julho de
1988, alterada peha Lei n° 8.421, de 23 de novembro de 1993, que disp6e sobre o uso,
conserva;Jo e preservasio do solo agricola.
6.    ResolugIo SAA N 07, May 14, 1997. (Prohibits causing erosion, degrading soil
characteristics, causing siltation and desertification.)
7.    Decreto 41.608, February 24, 1997. Dispoe sobre a reorganiza,co da
Coordenadoria de Assistencia Tecnica Integral - CATI da Secretaria de Agricultura e
Abastecimento e di providencias correlatas.



- 83 -
8.    ResolugIo Conjunta SMA/SAA-4, April 7, 1997. Dispoe sobre o licenciamento
ambiental dos projetos conservacionistas constantes do Programa Estadual de Microbacias
Hidrogrificas.
9.    Portaria CATI 6, June 24, 1997. Dispoe sobre o estabelecimento de crit6rios
t6cnicos para efeito de fiscalizacao do uso do solo agricola no Estado de Sao Paulo.
10.   Portaria CATI 9, July 22, 1997. Trata da priorizao do Programa Estadual de
Microbacias Hldrogrhficas.
11. Decreto N' 41.990, July 23, 1997. Organiza o Programa Estadual de Microbacias
Hlidrogrificas - PEMH e di providencias correlatas.
12.   Decreto N° 41.719, April 16, 1997
Technical Documents:
1.    CATI Letter CGC No 1157/C, September 24, 1997, containing:
a)    Resolu9bo SAA-41, September 19, 1997, approving the Implementation
Manual of the Project (Operational and Technical Sections)
b)    Manual T6cnico de Manejo e Conservacao do Solo e Agua
c)    Manual do Programa - Se9bo Operativa
d)    Manual do Programa - Anexos
e)    Portaria CATI-12, August 20, 1997, creating the Unidade de
Gerenciamento do Programa Estadual de Microbacias Hldrograficas, and
appointing the head of this unit.
2.    Resumo Consolidado da Proposta de Financiamento -BIRD, April 1992
3.    Draft Technical ManuaL Chapters 1 to 4
4.    Draft Technical Manual, Chapter 5
5.    Draft Technical Manual, Fundo de Incentivo para Manejo de Conserva9bo do Solo
e Controle da Polui9bo
6.    Folder containing the 1992-93 preparation reports on:
a)    Areas de Atuagio Tecnica, August 1992
b)    Componente: Pesquisa Adaptiva e Desenvolvimento Agricola
c)    Componente: Extenslo Rural
d)    Componente: Fundo de ConservaAo
e)    Componente: Adequa9bo de Estradas Rurais
f)    Componente: Melhoria na Distribui9bo de Calcirio Agricola
g)    Componente: Desenvolvimento Florestal e Fiscalizag&o da Lei Estadual de
Uso e Conserva9bo do Solo Agricola
h)    Componente: Administragbo e Avalia9bo do Programa
(a)   Termos de Referencia do Componente Avalia1o do Programa
i)    Componente: Treinamento e Comunicacao
j)    Anexo V: Modelos de Produ9bo Agricola
BankDoctuments:
1.    Cost Tabes: Suwnary Account by Project Component, November 30, 1992
2.    Cost Tables: Sumnmry Account by Project Component, September 18, 1997
3.    Farm Models: May 28, 1997
4.    Economic Analysis: September 23, 1997






MAP SECTION



I



&.                                   5              MINAs  GERAIs                                                                            LA~"7ND MANAGEMENT III PROJECT
-20   P   Ps/''t  rd>nt  urio  { ; Rio G ,2WP49Er>- STATE OF SAO PAULO 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STTEOF AOPALO2W
MATO   G ROSSO    ;             4                 <          2   g  Pol8-taO                 t           t i  ; 9                 u;:   nE I P4.,                                       RIVER AND RAIL TERMINALS FOR LIME
D O S U L S i ~~~~~~'4                                                                                                                                                                                     13mIcdet   mzv_   nb NzGa   8;    r   rzc AGRICULTURAL REGION (DIRA) HEADQUJARTERS
4  1ft  , P7eina eorrete  C \   bGerwrul e' oN/rrsdrng  ;  ,,   , ,  ffi  , Y   o nqu n qa  dPaIrocinlo PaulltoAGRRICUTURAALDDLEGAAIOON(DA) HEEDQUARTTRR
[sCmpC me   . <                      A    Z_               6o      D<nba  el=stLRprfo                   v;     b      bVdtso                 uss                                                         LlME QUARRY AREAS
S  Stl  /  >   Gz  -/l;  i/'ln  +g=<+S*nros<#  . mlece    oNovoAlroa;s  $   F    -T   >   \\   Altnovoitf  \                                        LOADINGRAILADING RAI
722d   X  b  locql  X>  F4°tU  H  d-onr ow Xt suli; 9° de Ve9rbo o^^o RAILROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAIROAD
rO~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                                                                         J-6oG o~ r-R  ,s1trX    tWip  eu aOX ClAXobI9G<  l5>   ee  Poro  F FEPASA NETWORK
/ > J( ~~~~~~~~~~o-  .§dnVnei&u  OsodCru/  *;,,j-d                                                                                                                                                            EPro~0rtje >-opGgddSl_ PAVED ROADS
a  t   7  u .   N   n      P A R A N A                         0       ,                            < ;       A     a -                  t,                                                        - , " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.1-d.B. 11
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                ,j-/.lp.y°"Br  ;DAMSt+  g,Crgu b
!,-2.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AGIUTURLRGO   ...RA. '.UNDARE.                  224ta'o;     - '  
r  {z  I  )   TBJ   Dlup  be  bem  p.  p  ed </r c cpdz Ronito \ e . , . ,s, E 2 GQoruld 249-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STAT CAITA
'   BJ      A    2I  L                                      of    gder  :rd1s fr iten          arre      t     _.~    ~R'f                         ;         4          It nb*d
._  .                     mpTn :/ -o vI 14d WcrId g nQ      _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . -I~.    h.
PERU~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   ~                                                                                                                                          STT BOUNDARIESoanlolou<d5 ,<~    "   \ S   ~
0   ,51t                                   'D   .   jp                                 r:    p,. n eS                                                           T  
)   h   21   /         purl O  e or gon GRDUP,             .           X     .                          ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITENTINA BUNARE
!   !          t                                   ny lodamnD on Phe Irgnl            n            B , -                        1;1 e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,f                                                                                      d
X  5   $0LIVA  T  J                             endoroc0U;t0 z X   tf              *          Aprory             Fderadoe     ,}o>RegStro x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5..P.d,                                                                              RI
%   )        /                                   such 607nd0ras                    t                              . - -  ,   ,2             S      . /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PN.--                                                                    ANIR
*t  \ \9_  SA  PAOLO      :                                           KItvETER                                             9            ,aJrdp o,uaAL
J   gHLW   >tRAGUAil  \  _,           0    20    40    00    8c   lt0                                  (        , (        /   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.
,    r  j   L.  6   (       J'.R'BA v1'1''                     0         2u         4u        bU                               l        2 U<                                                                             c
xL  g /    ARGENTINA    '   ! ) C E A W  MILE s                                              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jd
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                       -294          ,o
I   B                                                                      sOO                                               i_ 't  ./(/483                                                             40'                                                FEBRUARY IW'~~~~~~~~~~~j-    "" c"









IMAGING
Report No.:        17074   BR
Type      SAR



