Report No. PIC549
Project Name                   Brazil-Land Management III Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Natural Resource Management
Project ID                     BRPA6474
Implementing Agency            State of Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply
(SAA-SP)
Av. Miguel Stefano, 3900, Agua Funda
Caixa Postal 8114
04.301 - Sao Paulo, SP
Brazil
Contact: Secretary
Phone:   (55-11) 584-0433; 276-2729
Fax: (55-11) 578-2478
Prepared                       March 1995
Project Board Date             December 1999
The project described in this document is under preparation by the
prospective executing agency, and specific details described herein may
change. In addition, the context within which the Bank could finance
this project is under analysis and discussion with the Borrower.
1.   Project Objectives.   Soil erosion is causing efficiency losses
causing static or declining productivity for several traditional export
and food crops in the South and Southeast agricultural areas of Brazil.
In addition, soil erosion has also been responsible for the silting of
rivers and dams, flooding, pollution of water sources and damage to
local ecosystems. In the past, traditional soil conservation approaches
largely depended on costly runoff control structures which required
substantial subsidies and produced delayed benefits. More advanced
techniques, which are less costly and have a shorter payoff period,
focus on increasing the vegetative cover of the soil and improving soil
structure and drainage through reduced tillage, green manuring, crop
rotation and other improved cultivation techniques. Following an
initiative implemented in the States of Paran and Santa Catarina, in
1987 the State of S'o Paulo initiated a pilot soil conservation program
based on a participatory approach implemented at the microcatchment
level.
2.   The State of Sao Paulo has a very enterprising farming community
interested in improving its land management. The private sector is
heavily involved in the supply of inputs, machinery, seeds and planting
materials, in associated research development and commodity-based
extension. Therefore, the proposed project would combine the existing
approach based on microcatchment farmers' associations with an
integrated and well-focused technical strategy of sustainable and modern
forms of land management and soil and moisture conservation, to be
supported by an effective incentive program and implemented by trained
and motivated extension agents with substantial private sector



participation. Farm profitability would be increased, while soil loss,
the silting of river beds and reservoirs, flooding, the destruction of
rural roads, falling water tables, pollution of water sources and
depletion of natural resources would be reduced.
3.   Project Description.   Some 12,000 farmers -- more than 85t of them
small- or medium-scale -- residing in 2,000 microcatchments covering 31-
of the state land across 526 of the state's 572 municipalities, would
directly benefit from the project. Project microcatchments have been
selected among the ten state regions in accordance with a priority
rating involving, inter alia, soil degradation, farm income and level of
farmers' response to the state pilot program (para. 1). The proposed
project would include: (a) adaptive agricultural research focusing on
improved soil cover and soil structure, and land use mapping and
monitoring; (b) public and private extension services to assist in
planning and implementation of microcatchment soil conservation plans;
(c) financial (grant) assistance to microcatchment farmers through a
Soil Conservation (SC) Fund which would consolidate various existing
state subsidies, improving their transparency by consolidating them in
the state budget, improving their targeting to small farmers, and
phasing them out over the project's life; (d) erosion control works
along rural roads to reduce erosion in the microcatchments; (e) river
and rail terminals to reduce transport costs of lime, an important soil
amendment to promote vegetative cover, through increased use of rail and
river networks; (f) conservation reforestation and support for the
enforcement of the state environmental law; (g) project administration,
monitoring and evaluation; and (h) training. Complementary to the
project, the official credit system and/or the commercial banks would
provide project beneficiaries with on-farm investment credit.
4.   A draft Operational Manual for the use of the SC Fund defining
procedures, selection criteria and declining grant rates and limits, in
order to phase out the subsidies by the end of project implementation,
and the draft Technical Manual for Land Management and Soil Conservation
to guide project extensionists and technicians, have already been
prepared. Project activities would be executed by state agencies
coordinated by the State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply (SAA).
A Project Administrative Unit (AU) within SAA would monitor project
planning and implementation through the Regional Technical Commissions
(CTRs) in liaison with municipal microcatchment commissions.
5.   Project Cost and Financing.   Total project cost is estimated at
US$123 million with a foreign exchange component of about US$17.5
million, or about 14t of the total.   The proposed Bank loan of US$55
million equivalent would finance 509 of total estimated costs net of
taxes, or 469 of costs including taxes.   The proposed financing, on a
declining basis, of the project's incremental recurrent costs is aimed
at mitigating implementation risks caused by inadequate or untimely
counterpart funding in the current severe fiscal situation. By project
completion, the estimated increase in the state budget for soil and
water conservation resulting from the project's incremental recurrent
costs is well within the State Government's financing capability.
6.   Environmental Aspects.   The project is expected to have a
significant beneficial impact on the environment by supporting soil
-2 -



erosion and water pollution control and other conservation activities at
the microcatchment level, including conservation forestry development.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



