Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4238-BR
Loan Agreement
(Land Management III Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
Dated December 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4238-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1999 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF SÃO PAULO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain  obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01.
“The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as subparagraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.07 of this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means the individuals or the entities in the Guarantor’s 
private sector which are responsible for the carrying out of aa Microcatchment 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CATI” means Coordenadoria de Assistência Técnica Integral, the 
administrative unit within SAA (as hereinafter defined) established by the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 48,133 of June 20, 1967, as amended by the Borrower’s Decree No. 41,608 of 
February 24, 1997;
(d)
“Consultative Council” means the council established pursuant to the 
Page  3
Borrower’s Decree 41,990 of July 23, 1997;
(e)
“Grant” means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through SAA (as hereinafter defined), to a Beneficiary, partially out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, for the purposes of financing a Microcatchment Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined);
(f)
“IAU” means the internal audit and control unit created within CATI 
pursuant to CATI’s Portaria No. 21 of September 1999;
(g)
“Microcatchment” means a microbacia hidrográfica, a small watershed or 
small area bounded peripherally by a water parting and draining ultimately to a 
particular small watercourse;
(h)
“Microcatchment Subproject” means a project which is part of a land 
management and conservation plan for a particular Microcatchment, and selected by the 
Borrower pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) consisting of investments and other 
activities in any of the areas referred to in Part C.2 of the Project;
(i)
“Microcatchment Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Municipal Councils” means Conselhos Municipais, the municipal councils 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Municipality Arrangements” means the arrangements referred to  in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual for the implementation 
of the Project, approved by SAA (as hereinafter defined) through Resolution No. 41 of 
September 19, 1997, as the same may be amended by agreement between the Bank and the 
Borrower, such Manual to include the technical manual related to the extension 
services to be financed by the Loan and approved by the SAA (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit housed within CATI and 
established by SAA’s (as hereinafter defined) Resolution of September 23, 1999;
(n)
“Project Area” means an area of approximately 4,500,000 hectares 
distributed in about 1,500 Microcatchments in the Borrower's territory;
(o)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated September 11, 1997 
delivered by the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply to the Bank, setting 
forth the indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the 
implementation of the Project and in evaluating its results;
(p)
“SAA” means Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento, the Borrower’s 
secretariat of agriculture and supply; and
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-five million dollars 
($55,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower and the Guarantor, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section 
shall be amended to read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of 
such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Page  5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of SAA, and the person or persons designated in 
writing by such Secretary, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SAA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: 
(i) the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the relevant Annual Operating Plan; and 
(iii) appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, agricultural and land 
management practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain until at least the completion of the Project:  
(i) the PCU with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes 
of assisting SAA in the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the IAU with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes 
of assisting SAA in exercising physical, financial and administrative procedural 
control in respect of Project activities; and (iii) the Consultative Council with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and composed by 
members from the Borrower’s public and private sectors, for the purposes of, inter 
alia, advising the SAA on the overall implementation of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall, by not later than six months after the date of this 
Agreement, employ one professional responsible for the engineering and one 
professional responsible for the environmental functions to be carried out by the IAU 
in respect of the Project, such professionals to have qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with each of the municipalities benefiting from Project activities (the Municipality 
Arrangement), providing, inter alia, for: 
(i)
the establishment and maintenance by the relevant municipality, 
until the 
completion of the Project, of the relevant municipal 
council (the Municipal 
Council) in respect of Parts B, C and D of the 
Project, as provided in the 
Project Implementation Manual, 
such Municipal Council to serve the following 
purposes: (A) promotion of 
the Project at the municipal level; (B) provision 
of information to 
prospective Beneficiaries with respect to Microcatchment 
Subproject conditions and approval procedures; and (C) subject to the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, participation in the 
selection of Microcatchment Subprojects; 
(ii)
the participation of the relevant municipality in the extension 
activities 
financed under the Project and described in Part B of 
the Project, such 
participation to include the procurement and 
monitoring of works; and
(iii)
the obligation of the relevant municipality, during Project 
implementation, in 
respect of Part D.1 of the Project, to maintain the 
road section under its 
jurisdiction in accordance with 
appropriate practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
SAA, shall enter into a grant agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the 
Beneficiaries (the Microcatchment Subproject Agreement) to finance the costs of a 
Microcatchment Subproject, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which 
shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Microcatchment Subproject Agreements and the Municipality 
Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive of fail to enforce any of 
such Microcatchment Subproject Agreements and the Municipality Arrangements or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and the provisions of the Project Monitoring Letter, the Borrower, shall, 
during Project implementation, starting not later than nine months after the date of 
this Agreement, monitor, for the purposes of measuring Project impact, a minimum of 
six and a maximum of twelve Microcatchments located in the Project Area, the results 
of such monitoring to be included in the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) 
of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation or restrictions upon the Bank’s rights 
under Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and comments:
(i)
by not later than three months after the end of each calendar 
semester, a 
report during such semester; and
(ii)
by not later than December 31, 2002 or when disbursements from the 
Loan 
Account shall have reached 50% of the amount of the Loan, 
whichever is 
earlier, a mid-term evaluation report of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, prepared 
by consultants acceptable to 
the Bank and employed under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, on 
the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project and on the Borrower’s 
performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, such report to take into 
account the 
Project Monitoring Letter.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the Bank’s rights under Section 
9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank 
promptly upon its request on any of the aforesaid reports, and shall take, or cause to 
be taken, all such action that may be recommended by any of the aforesaid reports or 
which shall have been agreed by the Bank and the Borrower during any of such exchange 
of views, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable that may be 
recommended by such reports or which shall have been agreed upon during such exchange 
of views.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by not later than December 31 of each year 
during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the Bank an annual operating plan 
(the Annual Operating Plan), satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
physical targets, and the staffing, training and procurement programs for the 
activities to be carried out under the Project during the succeeding calendar year.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
        (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower in charge of the execution of the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower’s Decree No. 41,719 
of April 16, 1997 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event referred to in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Page  8
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor’s Central Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that this Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date March 7, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), OR
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado dos
   Negócios da Fazenda
Avenida Rangel Pestana 300/ 5º andar
01017-000 São Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento
Avenida Miguel Estefano, 3900
04301-903 São Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of São Paulo, S.P., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
By /s/ Mário Covas Júnior
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
   16,200,000
55%
(2)
Goods (including
   13,000,000
100% of foreign
seedlings)
expenditures
and 65% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
    7,900,000
100% of local expend-
itures for services
of consultants domiciled
within the territory of
the Guarantor; and
100% of foreign
expenditures for
services of other
consultants
(4)
Training
    1,000,000
55%
(5)
Grants
   11,900,000
70% of amounts
disbursed 
(6)
Unallocated
    5,000,000
   __________
TOTAL
   55,000,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  10
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 30, 1998 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under training, Grants and contracts for 
goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent, for works costing less than $350,000 
equivalent, for services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent and 
for services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase and sustain agricultural 
production and productivity, and farm income and to assist in the conservation of 
natural resources in the Project Area by: (a) promoting the adoption of sustainable 
forms of land management and soil, water and forest conservation, at the 
Microcatchment level, involving the farming community in natural resources planning, 
use and monitoring; (b) developing community environmental awareness and participation 
in environmental protection efforts; (c) increasing the extent and duration of 
vegetative cover to the soil; and (d) improving internal soil structure and drainage, 
and safely disposing of any remaining agro-chemichal run-off, either within or outside 
farm boundaries.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Adaptive Agricultural Research
Strengthening of SAA's adaptive research capacity on improved management of 
natural resources, soil structure and vegetative cover, through the carrying out of 
research trials identified by farmers or group of farmers located in the Project Area 
on the development of, inter alia, soil conservation practices, erosion control 
methods, land use rationalization, crop diversification, agroforestry systems, 
agricultural input use rationalization, integrated pest management, pasture 
rehabilitation, and sustainable systems for small farmers.
Part B:
Technology and Institutional Development
Strengthening the provision of extension services to assist Microcatchment land 
users in the Project Area to improve their natural resource management and soil work 
on forest conservation practices through:
1.
Mobilization of about 300 senior extensionists at the municipal level and 
acquisition and utilization of vehicles, equipment and furniture; and
2.
Provision of extension services to about 90,000 farmers in consultant 
Microcatchments in the Project Area to assist them in:
(a)
organizing and establishing a farmer association within each 
Microcatchment in the Project Area which participates in the carrying out of the 
Project;
(b)
carrying out of land use mapping as the basis for the preparation of land 
management soil conservation plans for each Microcatchment;
(c)
preparing, with the participation of the corresponding farmer 
association, a land management and soil conservation plan for each Microcatchment, 
complemented, where necessary, with individual farm plans for small-scale farmers; and
Page  11
(d)
preparing applications for Microcatchment Subprojects.
Part C:
Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation, and Pollution Control and
Reforestation
1.
Carrying out of environmental education activities including: (a) preparation of 
an operational strategy for environmental education based on a participatory 
methodology; and (b) training, seminars and workshops on natural resources management, 
in particular with respect to the management of the relevant Microcatchment.
2.
Provision of Grants to farmers or group of farmers in the Project Area for the 
purposes  of carrying out Microcatchment Subprojects, consisting of: (a) application 
of technologies for improving the management and quality of river water; and (b) the 
development and expansion of the Borrower's reforestation program through the 
distribution of seedlings of native species for planting by Microcatchment farmers of 
private land located either in continuous protective strips along water courses or in 
small plots on steeper areas or shallow soils unsuitable for agriculture.
3.
Strengthening of SAA's soil conservation, land use and pollution control 
inspection unit in charge of the enforcement of the Soil Conservation Legislation in 
the Borrower’s territory.
Part D:
Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads
1.
Carrying out of works aiming at controlling the erosion along about 6,000 
kilometers of rural roads in the Project Area.
2.
Enhancement of SAA's road work monitoring and supervision capacity and the 
coordination between SAA and each of the respective entities responsible for road 
works within the Project Area, through the provision of consultants’ services for 
engineering design activities and supervision of the proposed works, staff training, 
and acquisition of vehicles and information equipment.
Part E:
Training and Communication
1.
Training in participatory planning and implementation of improved natural 
resource management and conservation practices, through:
(a)
comprehensive start-up training for about 50 state and regional managers 
on the Project’s technical and administrative concept and strategy based on the 
Project Implementation Manual;
(b)
advanced technical courses for about 50 training monitors, regional 
managers, coordinators and subject matter specialists;
(c)
basic technical and operational courses for extension agents and 
technical staff, Municipal Councils and Microcatchment commissions, and environmental 
law enforcement officials followed by appropriate updating sessions;
(d)
orientation meetings, excursions and farmer-field demonstrations for 
farmers;
(e)
seminars, specialized courses and study tours for research and extension 
agents; and
(f)
organized study tours within the country and abroad.
2.
Provision of audio visual aids on modern land management and soil conservation 
practices for public information and acquisition and utilization of vehicles and 
equipment to increase the training capacity of CATI.
Part F:
Project  Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the PCU to carry out overall Project 
administration, monitoring and evaluation through the provision of technical 
assistance, vehicles and information equipment.
Page  12
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2003
through October 15, 2012
2,750,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  13
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for specialized research and computer 
equipment, and software shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than specialized research and computer equipment, and software) 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $13,300,000 equivalent, may, and 
works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
Page  14
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods (other than specialized research and computer equipment, and software) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $2,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $7,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works, financed by Grants under Part C.2 of the Project for 
Microcatchment Subprojects of up to $50,000 equivalent, to be procured by a 
Beneficiary, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as 
provided in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) as detailed in the 
Project Implementation Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.
Page  15
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovaçao da Marinha Mercante), established pursuant to the 
Guarantor’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for applied research activities which meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contacts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for internal and external audit activities under Part F of Project and 
for engineering designs and supervision under Part D of the Project which meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  16
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contract shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount equivalent to $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Page  17
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  18
