Document of
The World Bank                                   -'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11248-KE
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PARASTATAL REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT: VOLUME II (IMPLEMENTATION)
November 9, 1992
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
PREFACE
OBJECTIVES OF THIS IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME:
This manual has been written to help the reader understand the operational
details of tne Kenya Parastatal Reform and Privatization Project, that the Government of
Kenya intends to implement, and to provide information that might be used by interested
parties in expressing their initial interest in being considered as potential suppliers of needed
goods and services to be acquired by Government during the project life. In connection with
this latter objective, receipt of this manual from Government is not considered as a request to
bid on any aspect of the project. Requests for tenders will be made to evaluated interested
parties under normal procedures for procurement as agreed between Government and its
project funding agencies.
FURTHER INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any consultants, contractors, or suppliers interested in acquiring further
information on the timing of requests for tender, specifications or other details which would
assist them in submitting expressions of interest should contact the project authorities at the
address shown below:
Mr. G. Mitine (for the Public Enterprise Reform Component)
Investment Secretary
Department of Government Investment & Public Enterprise (DGIPE)
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007,
Nairobi, Kenya
Tel. No.:
Fax. No.: (254-2)330-426
Mr. J. Simba (for the Privatization Component)
Executive Director
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU)
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007,
Nairobi, Kenya
Tel. No.:
Fax. No.: (254-2)330-426
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATIONLUME
PRIVATIZATION COMPONENT
ANNEX A. I          Policy Paper on Public Enterprise Reform ant Privatization
ANNEX A.2. 1        Strategic 'Commercially Oriented* State Enterprises to be Retained in the
Public Domain
ANNEX A.2.2         Public Ownership (Direct and Indirect) of 'Commercially Oriented
Enterprises
ANNEX A.3.1         Twenty Priority Candidates for Privatization: Preliminary Valuation of
Government Equity
ANNEX A.3.2         Enterprises Approved for the First Phase of Dietfiture by the Pattal
Reform Programme Committee
ANNEX A.4           Kenya - Privatization Action Plan: Implementadon Schedule
ANNEX A.5           Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Privatize Kenya
Airways
ANNEX A.6           Proposed Organization Structure for ESTU
ANNEX A.7           Terms of Reference of Senior Staff of the Executive Secretariat and Technical
Unit (ESTU)
ANNEX A.8           Total Project Budget (Including Privatization & PE Reform Components)
ANNEX A.9           Privatization Progress Report: Outline
ANNEX A. 10         Terms of Reference for a Study on Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs)
ANNEX A.ll          ESTU Task Implementation Plan (1992-1994)
ANNEX A. 12         Detailed Evaluation Criteria for Mid-Term Review
ANNEX A. 13         Listing and Timetable for Proposed PE Liquidations



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REF`ORM COMPONENT
ANNEX B. 1           Study of Subsidies and Other Financial Flows in Favor of the Major PEs -
Draft Terms of Reference
ANNEX B.2            DGIPE Tasks:
A. Introduction - DGIPE Priority Tasks
B. DGIPE Task Implementation Plan (1992-1994)
ANNEX B.3            Proposed Organization Structure for DGIPE
ANNEX B.4            DGIPE Functions Chart
ANNEX B.5            DGIPE Job Descriptions for Key Posts
ANNEX B.6            DGIPE Staff Resourcing Program
ANNEX B.7            DGIPE Proposed Budget - Local Personnel Costs only
ANNEX B.8            DGIPE: Proposed Budget for Technical Assistance Costs
ANNEX B.9            Base Data for Major PEs
A. Criteria Underlying Selection of PEs for Restructuring
B. Main Financial Indicators for Major PEs
ANNEX B. 10          Background and Plans for Restructuring Initiatives
ANNEX B. 11          Scoping Studies for Restructuring of Five Target PEs: Draft Terms of
Reference
ANNEX B. 12          PE Reform: Assistance for Target Enterprises and Institutional Support -
Estimated Budget and Timing
ANNEX B. 13          Executive Summary and Preliminary Implementation Plan From Safety Net
Study Report
ANNEX B. 14          Statement of Management Information System Needs for Registrar-General's
Office
ANNEX B. 15          Draft Terms of Reference for Study to Improve the Performance of the
Auditor General (State Corporations)
ANNEX B. 16          Draft Terms of Reference for Study on Regulatory Boards and Authorides
ANNEX B. 17          Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Public Enterprise (PE) Cross-Debu
and other Indebtedness
ANNEX B. 18          Agreed Restructuring Plans and Associated Technical Assistance for Five
Target PEs
ANNEX B. 19          Reform of Corporate Governance



NXA. 
REPUBUC OF KENYA
POLICY PAPER
ON
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
AND
PRIVATIZATION
DATED: JULY 1,1992
ISSUED BY:    T1V OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT
AND MENISTRY OF FITJANCE,
KENYA.
(DEPARTNENT OF GOVERNMENT
IVESTMENTS AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
TOGETHER WTrH THE EXECUTIVE
SECRETARIAT AND TECHNICAL UNIT)



ANNEX A. 1
page 1 of 23
1.  INTROUCTlON
1.    The Government of Kenya (GOK) is implementing a comprehensive Public Enterprisel/
Reform Programmne with the overall aims of:
a)    enhancing the role of private sector in the economy, by shifting more of the
responsibility for production and delivery of products and services from the
public to the private sector, to create a more level glaying field by eliminating
preferential treatment, including monopoly rights, and to enable the private sector
to enter the areas of activity of the Public Enterprises. (PE's) on an equitable
basis;
b)    reducing the demand of the Public Enterprises on the Exchequer so as to improve
the use of Kenya's scarce resources, and to enhance the returns on those
resources by achieving greater efficiency in both Private and Public Enterprises
through greater responsiveness to market signals and commercial criteria;
c)    reducing the role and rationalizing the operations of public enterprise sector;
d)    improving the re%latory environment by selecting more economically rational
means of regulation, thereby reducing conflicts of interest between the regulatory
and commercial functions of public enterprises, that are consistent with
Government policy; and
e)    broadening the base of ownership and enhancing capital market development.
2.    The two instruments that will be used to achieve these aims are a public enterprise reform
programme (PERP), and a privatization programme. This policy paper sets out the
objectives, principles, scope and other significant aspects of the public enterprise reform
programme in PART 1, and the principles and procedures that will guide the Parastatal
Reform Programme Committee (PRPC) and its Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit
(ESTU) to facilitate the privatization process in PART II.
3.    While the PRPC and the ESTU will coordinate the privatization component of the
programmne, The Departnent of Government Investment and Public Enterprises (DGlPE)
will be responsible for those aspects of the reform programmne that are related to strategic
parastatals which are to remain in State hands.
1/ NOTE: Although strictly speaking a "public enterprise' or "parastatal" is an enterprise in
which the Government of Kenya has all or a majority of the equity, for purposes of this paper
the terms 'public enterprise", "PE" and "parastatal" will also include an enterprise in which
the Government owns a minority equity interest. Where a distinction in relative ownership
need to be made, the terms "majority owned PE' is used to denote an enterprise in which the
Government has a controlling shareholder interest.



ANNEX A. I
page 2 of 23
II.    SCOPE OF THE REFORM PROGRAMME
4.    There are two hundred and forty (240) commercially oriented public enterprises with
direct, or indirect government ownership through ICDC, IDB, KTDA, KTDC, and other
entities. Of these the Government has designated thirty three (33) PEs (see Annex 1) as
"strategic enterprises' and intends to retain its ownership and active Board participation
in them for the time being. The remaining two hundred and seven (207) PEs (see Annex
2) have been classified as "non-strategic enterprises" and they constitute the
Government's privatization programme. Of these enterprises the PRPC has selected 45
PEs (see Annex 3) to begin the first phase of the privatization programme, leaving one
hundred and sixty two (162) PEs to be processed for subsequent privatization.
5.    The scope of the PERP will cover the following:
(a)   the 33 PEs deemed to be strategic the core activities of which will be retained in
the public sector. Of this total, 5 enterprises with major impact on the economy
and the Government finances will be selected for early restructuring, and
(b)   the 162 non-strategic PEs, as mentioned above, are targeted for later privatization
and will meanwhile be made as efficient as possible.
6.    In this context, GOK defines PEs as "strategic" if they provide essential services or are
considered to play a key role from the view points of national security, health and
protection of environment.
7.     Companies where government has minority holdings are not strictly parastatals, but are
to be divested through the ESTU for reasons of active portfolio management by the
Development Financial Institutions (DFIs) and for budgetary resource mobiisation for
the Government.
8.    Grounded projects in which the Govermnent or DFIs have a majority or minority
shareholding will be divested by the ESTU to encourage private sector to complete the
projects and thereby create employment opportunities.
9.    Privatization is an integral and visible element of the Government's overall parastatal
reform programme and it should not be viewed as an end in itself, but as a progressive
effort to promote productive efficiency, to strengthen competitive forces in the economy,
and to support entrepreneurial development.



ANNEX A. 1
page 3 of 23
PART I
POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES
OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM



ANNEX A. I
page 4 of 23
PART I
m.    POLICIES. PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES OF PE REFORM
Objectives of the PERP
10.   The PERP will have the following primary objectives:
(a)   to enhance the efficiency and performance of the PE sector;
(b)   to reduce the financial burden of the sector on Government; and
(c)   to achieve these objectives through the introduction of reforms that will enforce
financial discipline, mobilize managerial and financial autonomy and set up
adequate accountability and appropriate incentives, all toward the aim of having
PEs operate on commercial principles.
Principles of PE Reform
11.   All actions of the PERP will be based on the following principles:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include one viable commercial activities, except for
certain cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than
commercial reasons. However, such non-commercial activities will only be
retained on a separate operational and accounting basis and with contractual
arrangements giving the PE full compensation for the activity through transparent
budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include regulatory functions
related to other than public services, they will be separated and either eliminated
or assigned to another non-commercial PE entity.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that
will oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies
will be phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as
mentioned under (a) above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to
market pricing wherever competition is possible. This goal will be promoted
through the breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination
of barriers to private entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these
aims, their managements will be provided with the maximum autonomy over key
operational variables (such as prices, procurement and salary levels) that is
compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with
private entities of similar nature, be regulated as needed to protect the public
interest, primarily through review and approval of tariffs, maintenance and



ANNEX A. I
page 5 of 23
replenishment of all kinds of capital resources, and cost containment. Such
regulation will be implemented through autonomous, specialized bodies operating
independently from the government line structure, thus insulating them from
political interference.
(e)    It is the function of the legal regulatory framework to provide a 'level playing
field", i.e. facilitate an equitable and fair basis for the efficient functioning of
both private and public sector enterprises under competitive and freely market-
based conditions, and to provide protection to consumers when necessary. With
this objective, the legal framework applicable to the private sector, including,
inter alia, the Companies Act, will be made equally applicable to PEs.
(f)    GOK's ownership functions over majority-owned PEs include the same rights and
responsibilities as the analogous functions in the private sector. In its ownership
role GOK will thus: (i) select and appoint competent and qualified persons to PE
boards according to a widely publicized and transparent process; (ii) provide PE
management with clear, non-conflicting objectives; (iii) agree with management
on the strategy and corporate instruments reflecting it; (iv) leave management as
free as needed to achieve the objectives; (v) oblige management to full and
transparent accountability; and to this purpose (vi) perform ex-post evaluations
of management performance. All of these principles are incompatible with
political interference in PE management matters.
(g)    All aspects of PE business will be performed in a commercial and transparent
manner. The fact of being a PE will not constitute an acceptable reason for
directly or indirectly according favourable treatment to PEs, e.g. through
exemption from taxes or fiscal charges and preferential access to imported and
domestic inputs.
Institutional Arrangements
12.   Relations between Government agencies and PEs will be clearly defined to ensure
transparency and accountability. They will avoid multiple PE accountability. The
Govermnent has established the Department of Government Investments and Public
Enterprises (DGIPE) within the Ministry of Finance (MOF), charged with specific
functions and powers which will render it as autonomous as possible. DGIPE will be
headed by a person of Permanent Secretary rank reporting to the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance, and will be given adequate authority to enable it to carry out
effective oversight and leadership of the public enterprise reform process. Sector
ministry functions in relation to PEs will be limited to developing sector-wide policies
and programmes. PE boards of directors will be responsible for setting corporate
operational policies and to ensure that executive managements carry them out. These
respective roles are detailed below.



ANNEX A. I
page 6 of 23
Roles and Functions of DGIPE
13.    DGIPE will:-
(a)    represent GOK's ownership function in regard to PEs and other investments in
all sectors; and
(b)    exercise oversight and leadership functions in setting majority-owned PEs'
strategic objectives and ensuring that those objectives are met.
14.    DGIPE's major tasks will essentially fall into two categories:
(a)    the temporary task of designing and implementing the PE reform process; and
(b)    the permanent tasks of: (i) centrally monitoring and supervising the performance
of majority-owned PEs and monitoring of all other investments; (ii) carrying out
effective PE debt management; and (iii) controlling, and ensuring PEs'
accountability for all budgetary allocations to PEs as well as funds by PEs to
GOK.
15.   In addition, DGIPE will have a special function related to the social safety net which is
summarized in paragraph 15 below.
16.    Spreading the PE reform process will give DGIPE the lead role in designing and
supervising the introduction of: (i) sector-wide reform measures which will not only
enhance the efficiency and performance of the PEs to be retained in the public sector
(either permanently or pending their privatization) but also reduce their burden, both
direct and indirect, on government finances; and (ii) other measures that are aimed at
improving the structure and efficiency of selected major PEs whose ability to achieve and
sustain improved performance is crucial to the PE sector's global results and impact on
the economy. In furtherance of this task, DGIPE will:
(a)    carry out diagnostic studies that will identify the nature, extent and impact of the
reform measures to be taken, and determine implementation strategy including
action plans as well as the appropriate instruments to be used (decree, instruction,
directive, etc.);
(b)    coordinate reform implementation action with:  (i) sector ministries and PE
boards in respect of all PEs to be retained at any given time, and (ii)
PRPC/ESTU, with regard to PEs designated to enter the privatizatiori/divestiture
process in the future ("pipeline PEs");
(c)    design and implement system for: (i) the settlement of indebtedness and adoption
of measures to prevent its repeat buildup; (ii) ensuring PE financial discipline,
operational autonomy and responsiveness to market signals in regard to both
inputs and outputs; (iii) reforming, where necessary, the financial and
organizational structures of majority-owned PEs to enable them to operate on a



ANNEX A. 1
page 7 of 23
sound commercial basis; (iv) selection and appointment of competent and
qualified persons to PE boards according to a transparent process, and providing
logistic and other support to the boards' selection and appointment of such
persons to senior executive management positions under a similar process; and
(v) monitoring and evaluating PEs and other investment performance including
processes for specific remedial action when necessary.
(d)    develop and implement plans for rationalising GOK investments in enterprises in
which GOK holds a majority equity interest;
(e)    in coordination with the Attorney-General's Office, assist in reviewing and, if
necessary, modifying the regulatory and legal framework to:  (i) create
competitive environment; (ii) separate PEs' commercial from their non-
commercial (including regulatory) functions; and (iii) strengthen regulation by
appropriate independent bodies whenever this is required to protect the public's
and particularly the consumer's interest; and
(f)    ensure that the timing of reform measures is effected in sequence that maximizes
their impact and effectiveness. Sequencing will inter alia respect the top priority
of: (i) measures to improve the enabling environment within which the PE sector
operates since such measures will have an across-the-board impact on the ability
of the entire sector to act in an efficient and competitive manner, and (ii)
measures that will improve the performance of selected key PEs.
17.   In its permanent function DGITPE will:
(a)    set strategic business objectives, key performance indicators and targets for
majority-owned PEs;
(b)    set up and maintain a database of qualified candidates for PE board and senior
executive management posts, recommend all PE board member appointments
from the database in accordance with the principle of transparency as per para.
8(f)(i) above and ensure that boards appoint senior managers in accordance with
the same principle;
(c)    in accordance with Treasury guidelines, review and approve (i) PE corporate
plans, budgets, investments, capital restructuring proposals, and commitments,
which have actual or contingent implications for the Government's budget; (ii)
specific subventions and subsidies in accordance with approved votes; and (iii)
PE borrowings which involve Government guarantees;
(d)    participate in drafting, negotiating and administering performance contracts for
majority owned PEs;
(e)    monitor and evaluate PE performance and financial flows against agreed targets;



ANNEXA]1
page 8 of 23
(f)    reward or sanction board members of majority-owned PEs according to their
contribution to overall results (executive managers will be similarly dealt with by
the boards);
(g)    determine dividend policy for majority-owned PEs and approve dividend payment
proposals submitted by PE boards;
(h)    aggregate and analyze PE performance on a sector-wide basis and report to the
Minister of Finance on sector financial performance, commnitments and trends;
(i)   for each majority-owned PE, nominate independent qualified auditors for
appointment by the Auditor-General (Corporations);
(j)    ensure that majority-owned PEs publish their audited accounts within three
months of their being approved by the board;
(k)    carry out PE debt management including recording, preparing and signing
onlending agreement; liaison with creditors; issuance of statement and
reconciliations; and recovery and arrears management; and
(1^.) control and ensure PE accountability on all GOK allocation of funds to PEs and
control and account for funds due GOK and received from PEs; track these and
all other financial flows to and from PEs, flag and provide early warning on
undesirable situations as necessary, and issue appropriate reports on both
activities.
DGIPE's role as Administrative/Manager Social Safety Net:
18.   GOK recognizes that the social impact of the parastatal reforms will require unified action
in designing and administering the substantive and institutional scheme for a social safety
net arrangement that will address labour redundancies resulting not only from
privatization/divestiture but also from rationalization of the remaining PE sector entities.
The likelihood that there will be redundancy from both parastatal reform and privatization
has led GOK to the administrative decision to have the system not only designed, but also
for an initial period administered by DGIPE. It is expected that the arrangements will
largely consist of various forms of cash benefit to protect workers' minimum
consumption levels.
Role of Sector Ministries:
19.   Sector ministries will develop sectoral policies and programmes in their respective
sectors. In the context of such policies and programmes they will: (i) provide critical
reviews of PE reform measures introduced and implemented by DGIPE, and (ii) receive
corporate plans and other key documents of PEs operating in the respective sector
ministries' sectoral subject area. This will enable sector ministries to contribute to the
initiation and implementation of the PERP and its component parts.



ANNEX A. !
page 9 of 23
20.   The primary interest of sector ministries in PEs and in the documents summarized in the
preceding paragraph is to ensure consistency between the PEs' actual or projected
activities as reflected in those documents and the sector ministries' respective policies and
programmes. The sector ministries will therefore send to DGIPE any comments they
may have that have a bearing on such consistency and if necessary will make any relevant
suggestions towards enhancing such consistency.
Roles of PE Boards and Executive Management
21.   A basic purpose of PERP is to introduce major changes in corporate governance so as
to achieve (i) separation between ownership and management functions, and (ii) enhanced
management autonomy and accountability. PE boards' functions and composition will
therefore be redefined to reflect their character as the top organ of the PE that also
provides the interface with its owners. Boards will be actively and closely committed to
and involved with supervision of management and its operations; individual board
members will be limited as to the number of boards they may serve on.
22.   Starting early in the reform process, boards will be expected (i) to participate in the
design of reform measures so as to make them effective in corporate practice, and (ii) to
cause executive managements to introduce relevant reform measures into day-to-day
operations in smooth and expeditious manner so as to produce the corresponding benefits
as early as possible. Moreover, just as it is up to DGIPE to ensure that the right PE
boards are in place to preside over the introduction of the reform measures, it is up to
the boards to have the right PE managers in place to produce improved performance.
23.   Principal functions of PE boards and of executive managements will be as follows:
(a)    Corporate policy and strategU: set by board, carried out by management;
(b)    Cormorate plans and hudgets: proposed by management, approved by board;
(c)    Staffing and employment:  The system  for board and top management
appointments will be determined on the basis of corporate governance study
being undertaken internally by GOK. Management salary levels and other
employment terms and conditions decided by board, others proposed by
management, approved by board. All of these variables will be determined and
applied according to best commercial practice and not to Civil Service rules,
standards and terms and conditions;
(d)    Pricing, procurement and other operational variables: decided by management
up to stated limits, above which board must approve;
(e)   Investments within approved plans and targets. asset sales in connection with
approved restructuring plans:  proposal initiated by board or management,
elaborated by management, approved by board;
(f)    Monitoring monthly/quarterly performance: by board;



ANNEX A. I
page 10 of 23
(g)    Annual rprts: approved by board. Dividends proposed by board, approved
by DGIPE;
(h)    Rehabilitation/restructuring: Management/board participate in proposal with help
from DGIPE's technical assistance; for majority-owned PEs, endorsed by
DGIPE, approved by Minister of Finance; and
(i)    Performance contracts (applicable only to majority-owned PEs): Drafted by
management, draft endorsed by board; negotiated by board/management with
DGIPE, other involved GOK agencies if and as coopted; signed on government
side by DGIPE/Minister of Finance, on PE side by board co-signed by
management. Followed and monitored by a committee comprising all the above
chaired by DGIPE.
The above attributions of approve authority are modified as per para. 14(c) above
whenever Government budgetary implications exist.
Holding Companies:
24.   For various historical and other reasons, the pattern of GOK  equity holding in PEs is
complex. PEs may be held directly or through other PEs which thus have a holding
company role. The main conclusion to be drawn from this situation in the context of
PERP is the need to establish and preserve direct accountability to GOK (as personified
by DGIPE) by all majority-owned PEs, whether directly or indirectly held. This means
that the functions of holding companies will be limited to holding the shares of subsidiary
PEs as designated by GOK. It also means that they will not act as surrogate of the GOK
as owner; as made clear in the preceding sections, that function will henceforth be vested
in DGIPE for purposes of: (i) instituting the reform measures, and (ii) carrying out
supervision and related functions as defined earlier. Above all, it would be impossible
for DGIPE to carry out its work if this direct access to PES for operational and control
purposes were to be impaired by interposition of holding companies; hence the
abovestated limitation on the holding companies' future connection with the PEs in its
portfolio.



ANNEX A. I
page 11 of 23
PART H
PRINCIPLES, PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES
FOR PRIVATIZATION



ANNEX A. I
page 12 of 23
PART II
IV.   PRINCIPLES. PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES FOR PRIVATIZATION
Institutional Arrangements
25.   In order to achieve the Government's objectives in the above mentioned programme, the
President has appointed a high level policy-making body, the Parastatal Reform
Programme Committee (PRPC) under the Chairmanship of the Vice-President and
Minister of Finance. The functions of the PRPC are:-
(a)   to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Parastatal Reform
Programme in general;
(b)   to prioritise and determine the timing of the sale for each non-strategic PE;
(c)   approve the operational guidelines for privatization to be followed by the
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU), including the criteria and
procedures to be followed in the divestiture decisions;
(d)    give final approval or rejection for the sale of public assets. In the event of a
rejection, the reasons justifying the action will be recorded in the Minutes of the
said meeting;
(e)   to monitor and evaluate the progress of implementing the programme; and
(0    to provide political impetus for privatization and participate in building public
awareness and the national consensus in support of the government programme.
26.   The management, coordination and implementation of the divestiture programme, as
approved by the PRPC, will be the responsibility of the ESTU, which acts as the
secretariat of the PRPC. ESTU has been established as an autonomous executing agency
and it will be insulated from any government or political interference. Tle functions of
the ESTU are:-
(a)   to formulate and recommend policies, procedures, programmes and operation
guidelines for divestiture;
(b)   to prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies where applicable,
target lists of candidates for privatization for approval by the PRPC;
(c)   to prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies where applicable,
PEs for privatization and monitor all technical privatization matters undertaken
by consultants, including: valuation; selection of optimal privatization method
and sale techniques; preparation of prospectus or offering memorandum;
elaboration of marketing plan; identification of financing options; etc., and



ANNEX A. I
page 13 of 23
(d)    to organize bidding process, receive, evaluate offers and proposals and prepare
recommendation to PRPC. In collaboration with the Capital Market Authority
(CMA) carry out all activities required for public issues of shares as required,
including appointment of intermediaries, lawyers, etc.
27.    In order to facilitate the divestiture process, the ESTU will establish Privatization
Implementation Teams (PITs) to undertake the necessary technical work for each PE.
The PITs will consist of a group of short term consultants (local or international)
consisting of financial analysts, valuers, accountants, lawyers, engineers, and industry
specialists as required. Where applicable, the PITs will also include technical officers
nominated by the holding companies. The PITs will be responsible for managing the
detailed aspects of the divestiture operations, including inter alia, asset valuation, choice
of sale technique marketing plans, labour redundancy, offering price for the sale of
shares through stock exchange, review and appraisal of offers and proposals.
Alternatively, ESTU may contract a merchant bank or any other specialised financial
institution to implement the overall privatisation process for selected PEs. Int he event
of the latter option, the contracted agency, reporting directly to the ESTU, will be given
the full mandate for preparing all the necessary steps to enable the successful
implementation and conclusion of the transaction.
28.    The PRPC and the ESTU are mandated to ensure that the highest level of transparency
and accountability is maintained in the entire privatization progranmme in accordance with
the principles and procedures outlined in the latter section of this document.
Principles of Privatization:
29.    The principles guiding the privatization process will be:-
(a)    enterprises will be divested into competitive markets; purchasers will not obtain
an intact or unregulated monopoly.
(b)    purchasers will not be accorded special protection or access to credit on
concessionary terms.
(c)    in cases where Government retains a minority shareholding, it will not exercise
any special or extraordinary voting rights, except in a limited, predetermined and
well defined policy areas.
(d)    excluding financial and operational (but not physical) restructuring that are
necessary to prepare enterprises for sale, there will be a moratorium on new
government investments in enterprises that are to be privatized.
(e)    all privatization sales will be on a cash-only basis, with the possible exception of
shares sold to the workforce of the affected firms.
(f)    no specific class of potential purchases will be excluded from participating in the
process.



ANNEX A. I
page 14 of 23
(g)    all transactions will be conducted in an open and transparent manner, consistent
with normal standards of commercial discretion. Unless justified by the existence
of legal rights, no predetermined direct sale or negotiations by private treaty will
be entertained except after publicly solicited bids have been obtained. At the
completion of the sale, all aspects of the transaction will be in the public domain
where appropriate, this means:-
-      a prospectus or offering memorandum will be prepared and publicised
for each firm to be sold;
-      a full body of financial, management and other information will be
available for disclosure to the investing public;
-      fair and equitable bidding procedures will be established;
-      criteria for ranking bids will be established and publicised;
-      bids will be opened in public;
-      upon completion of the sale, the names of purchasers, the price paid, and
the conditions of sale will be made public, and
-      the valuation of the assets and the details of all offers received will be
placed in the public domain.
(h)    to promote and ensure the competitiveness of the markets in which privatized
companies will operate, the Government will continue to build upon existing anti-
monopoly legislation and the institutional capacity to implement it in a
transparent manner, including publicising it. The Government will also continue
its efforts to liberalize import controls and rationalise tariffs, and continue the
process of price decontrol and the removal of marketing restrictions in all
sectors. A more specific review of the regulatory framework will be carried out
as and when enterprises, currently classified as strategic, are offered for sale.
(i)    The sale of a PE or portion thereof to another PE or public institution will not
be considered as privatisation.
(i)    No new parastatals will be established in the productive sector, except for
investments made purely for venture capital assistance through the restructured
DFIs.
Enterprise Selection Criteria:
30.    Selection criteria for parastatals to be divested, which are listed below, have been
identified for use by the ESTU. These will ensure that the whole enterprise selection
process is objective and fully transparent.



ANNEX A. I
page 15 of 23
(a)    Maiority government ownership:  The Government will give preference to
privatizing firms in which it has a majority ownership/
(b)    Minimal restructuring:   To  accelerate  implementation of the divestiture
programme, priority will be given to parastatals that will not require extensive
operational, financial, or legal restructuring prior to sale.
(c)    Profitability: To facilitate the process of divestiture, preference will be give.: to
parastatals that have generated an operating profit (before depreciation and d-.bt
service) for at least the past two years, excluding subsidies and subventions.
Other complimentary indicators will also be reviewed to select enterprises that
are attractive to the private sector including: rate of return on assets and equity;
debt and debt to equity rate; and inventory turnover and accounts receivable
collection periods.
(d)    Sector diversity: Enterprises will be drawn from diverse sectors of the economy.
(e)    Available and reliable enterprise data:  Operational and financial records and
accounts should be reasonably accurate, up-to-date and readily available to the
privatization implementation team and to potential investors.
(f)    Minimal regulatory adjustments:  In the interests of implementation speed,
enterprises in the initial list of PEs for privatisation will not be selected if there
is a need for time-consuming, costly regulatory adjustments prior to divestiture,
as is likely to be the case with monopolies.
(g)    Minimal staff redundancies: Preference will be given to parastatals that are not
severely overstaffed, so as to avoid the necessity of undertaking significant lay-
offs as part of the divestiture process. This is particularly important in the early
stages of the programme, before a fully funded safety net is in place.
(h)    Reduction of Budgeet drain: Parastatals that have needed large Treasury support
will be considered for dilution of ownership with management and financial
restructuring pending full divestiture.
Guidelines for the Divestiture Process:
31.    In addition to the selection criteria, the ESTU will use a set of operating guidelines that
will also guide their consultants when implementing a divestiture transaction. The
guidelines given below will ensure that each divestiture transaction adheres to a standard
set of procedures that is transparent and subject to public scrutiny. Each divestiture
transaction is likely to have certain aspects which differ from all others and, therefore,
the guidelines will be used flexibly rather than a fixed set of rules and regulations.
32.    The divestiture process will involve two distinct phases: prearation and execution. The
first phase will entail a detailed review of the parastatal (covering operational, financial
and legal issues) in order to determine its current condition, its strengths, weaknesses,



ANNEX A.1
page 16 of 23
potential, and financial restructuring requirements, if any.  This is followed by
constructing a computerized operational and financial model for the enterprise to project
likely results and their expected variances under several scenarios. These steps lead to
valuation of the enterprise as a going concern, which forms the basis for establishing a
range of values that can be used in negotiations with prospective investors and in setting
the share price for a public offering. For comparative purposes, an asset valuation will
also be conducted to ascertain the value from both a replacement and a liquidation
perspective. This phase will also include a preliminary determination of prospective
investor groups, and will conclude with the preparation of a "privatization action plan'
that fully documents the results of all the analysis conducted up to this stage. The action
plan also includes a detailed set of recommendations on how to proceed to execute the
transaction. At this stage, the key decision makers at the ESTU will fully review and
approve the analysis that has been conducted, as well as the contents of the action plan.
33.    The second and final stage, execution will entail implementation of the transaction. By
this stage, all key decision makers will have approved the privatization action plan.
Tasks to be performed during this stage include where necessary the preparation of the
sales documentation (e.g. prospectus, information memorandum), completion of any
financial and operational restructuring required prior to divestiture, resolution of all
outstanding legal issues that effect the sale, the design and implementation of a public
relations campaign to inform the public of the impending sale, and finally execution of
the sale itself.
34.    Prearation. The objective of this phase is to set the stage for the divestiture by
conducting an analysis of the enterprise so as to determine a realistic range of values for
the targeted enterprise and developing a credible sales strategy.
35.   The bulk of the work is carried out on-site by the Privatization Implementation Team
(PMI) and will include, gathering the necessary information, meeting regularly with key
members of the management and operating team of the enterprise, and interviewing other
decision makers that have a stake in the outcome of the transaction, such as tax
authorities and union representatives. This preparatory work will also draw on the
support of DGIPE and the DFIs as appropriate. Some of the most important components
of this analysis will include:-
(a)    prospects for the industry in which the enterprise operates;
(b)    the quality and competitiveness of the enterprise's products/services;
(c)    potential for performance enhancement, such as increasing and/or diversifying
output, reducing costs or restructuring debt;
(d)    market assessment and analysis of enterprise strengths, weaknesses and potential;
(e)    preliminary design of an appropriate financial structure for the enterprise, once
privatised;



ANNEX A. I
page 17 of 23
(f)    evaluation of management/employee relations and identification of outstanding
human resource issues, such as the competitiveness of the compensation
structure, overstaffing, etc; and
(g)    identification and assessment of investor demand, both domestic and foreign.
36.    The preparation phase will result in a number of written reports that serve both as a
guideline for future action and as documentation verifying to the ESTU and PRPC that
the analysis is thorough and complete. This 'paper trail' is the raw material that will
ensure that the transaction has been prepared and executed in a transparent manner.
Among the documents that may be produced during this preparation stage are:-
(a)    Technical issues memorandum: In virtually all cases the PIT will include an
industry specialist who will concentrate on a technical appraisal of the
enterprises' operational strengths, weaknesses and potential. This appraisal will
include, for example, an assessment of the plan and equipment, the
competitiveness of the operating cost structure and the quality of the work force.
Any observations about the need.for financial and management restructuring prior
to divestiture would be raised at this time, along with an estimate of costs and
timing, bearing in mind that these will be DGIPE's responsibility. The results
of this appraisal will normally be written in the form of a memorandum and key
aspects will later be incorporated in a more comprehensive enterprise appraisal
report.
(b)    Financial issues memorandum: A similar exercise will be undertaken by the
financial analyst, resulting in a report that will raise key issues surrounding the
financial performance of the enterprise as well as the need, if any, for financial
restructuring prior to divestiture, including specifically any proposals on the
treatment of debt.
(c)    Asset valuation report: This report, prepared by technical experts, will present
the appraised value of the parastatal's plant, equipment and real estate. The
aggregate net value of the assets, minus the transaction costs associated with the
divestiture and the aggregate net amount of the enterprise's debt, normally
indicate a floor price for the sale.
(d)    Legal issues memorandum: This report will usually be prepared by an attorney
assigned to the privatization team. It will identify outstanding legal issues and
claims, such as preemption rights, that must be resolved or noted prior to putting
the enterprise up for sale. Also it will recommend strategies for overcoming any
legal constraints to the transaction.
(e)    Operational and financial proiections and sensitivity analysis:  Financial
projections will be developed, based on expected operating performance and
forecast prices for key inputs. Projections will be carried out to take into account
various scenarios (e.g. selling prices increase/decrease by x%, cost of vital raw



ANNEX A. I
page 18 of 23
material increases/decreases by x%). The cash flows that result from these
projections serve as the basis for valuing the enterprises as a going concern.
(f)    Valuation memorandum: This report will present the range of values derived by
the privatization team, along with all relevant assumptions and documentation.
The report will review and discuss the main inputs used for the valuation, such
as asset values, projected cash flows, country risk considerations, rationale for
selection of discount rates, and the value attached to intangible assets, if any.
(g)    Marketing memorandum: A preliminary review will be presented of the most
likely prospective investors, alternative shareholding structures and strategies
describing how investor groups should be approached. This report will also
clarify the privatization method(s) to be used.
37.   In most cases some of these memoranda can be consolidated into a single written report.
However, in almost every case the end result of these preliminary written reports will
constitute a comprehensive document (the privatization action plan) that synthesizes the
information from the preparation phase that will be most relevant to decision makers at
the PRPC.  This document is the prime deliverable document presented by the
privatization team to the ESTU and constitutes the initial blue print to be followed during
the execution stage.
38.   Execution. The objective of this final phase of the work programme is to complete the
sale of the enterprise at an optimal value, within a reasonable time-frame and in a manner
that is fully transparent, which therefore will engender public confidence in the
privatization process.
39.   The essence of transparency and public confidence in the privatization process is the
manner in which the key documents associated with the transaction are prepared and
disseminated. Although in some instances there may be a need to maintain confidentiality
of some issues until the transaction is completed, the Government will eventually subject
the process for each transaction to public scrutiny. The key documents prepared during
this phase will include:-
(a)    Information memorandum: The information memorandum, or prospectus in the
case of a public offering, contains information about the enterprise and the
proposed transaction that is of interest to prospective investors. The information
contained in the information memorandum is almost totally derived from the
enterprise appraisal report, the valuation report and other relevant information
gleaned from the privatization action plan. This is a sales document that is
written so as to elicit interest from targeted investors who have either been
identified by the privatization team or have already demonstrated an interest in
participating in the purchase of the enterprise.
(b)    Bidding documents:  An open, transparent bidding process begins with the
preparation of the public notice requesting buds, which will be published in
newspapers, trade journals and other publications. The announcement will



ANNEX A. 1
page 19 of 23
provide a brief description of the enterprise, the bidding requirements the time
frame for submitting a bid and the assurance that those who respond to the
announcement will receive a copy of the information memorandum upon request.
The nature of this announcement will vary widely depending on the size and
complexity of the enterprise. The criteria to be used to evaluate the bids will be
consistent and well publicised. Since the ESTU will play a pivotal role int he
evaluation and selection process, there will be a clear and well documented set
of procedures in place that fully describe how the winning bidder will be
selected.
(c)    Government permits and approvals: Although each transaction is likely to be
different, in virtually every case a number of government ministries, under the
coordination and supervision of the ESTU, will become involved and require that
the proposed transaction meet specific regulatory requirements (e.g. tax
compliance, labour law, industry-specific regulations). If the transaction includes
a debt restructuring involving foreign creditors (e.g. debt-for-equity swaps, debt-
for-debt swaps, debt buy-outs), the Central Bank of Kenya must be consulted and
its approval must be obtained before reaching any final agreement on the terms
and conditions of the financial restructuring. Any debt repurchases that are
conducted either by enterprise itself or the Central Bank will be carried out in a
fully transparent manner.
(d)    Agreements related to the transfer of ownership: Depending on the method of
sale, legal sales agreements must be prepared and executed. The documentation
required for a public offering of shares, will differ from that required for a
private placement or an employee buy-out. But regardless of the method, usually
the services of a Kenyan merchant bank or other privatization specialists,
working closely with local legal counsel, will be used to prepare the documents
outlining the terms and conditions of the sale.
(e)    Public relations documents:  Mobilizing public support for the privatization
programme will be a major responsibility of ESTU management. Part of this
process will involve generating broad public interest in the public share offerings
that are anticipated. With the active assistance of local and foreign public
relations specialists, a public relations campaign will be designed and executed
so as to elicit the broadest possible public participation in the process and keep
the public informed of all stages as they progress.
Publication of Tender Notice:
40.    (a)    The Tender Notice for the sale of assets will be published in at least 2 major
newspapers twice a week for a period of three weeks. In the case of companies
that require foreign expertise, finance, technology and marketing, notices will
also be placed in one or more foreign publications. In the case of the latter,
mail-out letters will also be sent to Kenya Embassies and High Commissions in
major commercial countries as well as local Embassies and High Commissions
of major industrial countries.



ANNEX A. I
page 20 of 23
(b)    Notices will provide necessary information on the scheduled date of bidding and
will invite prospective bidders to obtain the Sales Prospectus.
(c)    Interested parties will be invited to visit the PE and inspect its operations.
(d)    Sufficient lead-time, ideally 60 days, will be provided from  the initial
announcement of tender to closure date for prospective bidders to prepare their
bids.
(e)    The financial and technical bids will be submitted in two separate sealed
envelopes marked only with the name of the PE being tendered.
(f3    bids must be accompanied by a banker's cheque or bank guarantee for an amount
representing 10% of the total offer.
(g)    Bids must remain valid for at least 60 days after the closing date.
Prequalification of Bidders:
41.   In order to facilitate the evaluation of tenders, the following factors will among these be
taken into consideration for the purpose of pre-qualifying prospective bidders:-
(a)    The bidder's proven history of sound management and expertise to improve the
performance of the enterprise.
(b)    The bidder's financial strength not only to purchase the enterprise but also to
undertake any necessary additional capital investment.
(c)    The bidder's ability to bring in new technology, including international marketing
knowledge and experience.
(d)    Bidder's intention to offer expanded or related services.
(e)    Bidder bringing in foreign exchange for the investment.
Tender Evaluation Committee:
42.   The Parastatal Reform  Programme Committee has appointed a Tender Evaluation
Committee which is composed of representatives of the following institutions:-
-      The Executive Director, ESTU - Chairman.
-      The Treasury,
-      The Parent Ministry of the enterprise,
-      The Holding Company of the enterprise,
-      Any other Professionals the ESTU may deem necessary to co-opt.
Public Opening of Tender Bids:



ANNEX A. I
page 21 of 23
43.   The PRPC Tender and Evaluation Committee will be responsible for the public opening
of all bids on a date to be announced and notified to all interested parties.
44.   For the purpose of ensuring transparency the PRPC has directed that interested pa--.es
should be invited to witness the official opening of all bids.
Evaluation of Tender Bids:
45.   A reputable consulting firm will be contracted by the ESTU for the purpose of
undertaking a professional evaluation of all tenders.
46.   Tenders from pre-qualified bidders will be evaluated on the basis of the following
criteria:-
(a)    The financial value of the offer.
(b)    The bidder's commitment to continue operating the business.
(c)    Feasibility of the bidder's business plan for the PE.
(d)    The extent to which the proposal offers job protection to the maximum
permissible economical level.
Award of Sale:
47.   On the basis of the recommendations of the Tender Evaluation Committee, the final
decision of the sale will rest solely with the Parastatal Reform Programme Committee.
Methods of Privatization:
48.   The ESTU will use any of the known privatization methods including:-
(a)    public offering of shares on the Nairobi Stock Exchange;
(b)    sale of shares by private placement;
(c)    negotiated sales insofar as preemption rights exists and have been exercised;
(d)    sale of enterprise assets (including liquidation);
(e)    new private investments in enterprises;
(f)    employee/management buy-out; and
(g)   leasing or award of management contract.



ANNEX A.l
page 22 of 23
49.   Unless justified by the existence of legal rights, no predetermined direct sale or
negotiations by private treaty will be entertained except after publicly solicited bids have
been obtained.
50.   The choice of option will be determined by the ESTU according to the following
criteria:-
(a)    objectives pursued by the Government for each sale;
(b)   record of performance and economic prospects; and
(c)    size of the enterprises and the ability to mobilize private funds.
Redundancies and the "Safety Net"
51.   It is evident that a number of PEs are grossly overstaffed and some of these enterprises
are insolvent or non-viable and will have to be liquidated. The public sector in many
countries, including Kenya to a certain extent, has for a long time functioned as an
employer of last resort and continued to expand until their marginal product of labour
reached zero or became negative. There is no economic justification for these types of
actions.
52.   Since Kenya does not have a social security system to cater for redundant employees, the
momentum with which implementation of the parastatal reform programme proceeds will
be greatly influenced by the establishment of a 'safety net' fund to underwrite
compensation claims arising from the anticipated redundancies. DGIPE together with the
ESTU, will develop and implement, a safety net and labour redeployment programme.
Public Awareness of the Privatization Process:
53.   On conclusion of a sale agreement, the ESTU will issue a press statement giving
complete particulars of each transaction, including the terms of sale, the offers received,
the price at which the sale is executed and the valuation of assets.
54.   These guidelines may be amended from time to time as and when the need arises.
55.   This document has been designated to provide a framework of reference to the interested
public. In the event of anyone wishing to obtain more specific data on particular
procedures, the ESTU will be happy to accommodate any requests for additional
information. Queries should be addressed to:-
The Executive Director,
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit,
Parastatal Reform Programme Committee,
7th Floor Anniversary Towers,
P.O. Box 34542,
NAIROBI



AENEX A 1
page 23 of 23
or
The Investment Secretary,
Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises,
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Finance,
P.O. Box 30007,
NAIROBI



ANNEX A.2.1
page 1 of I
STRATEGIC "COMMERCIALLY ORIENTEDN STATE ENTERPRIS
TO BE RETAINED IN THE PUBLUC DOMAIN
1.    Agricultural Development Corporation
2.    Agriculture Finance Corporation
3.    Development Finance Company of Kenya
4.    Development House Ltd. (AFC)
S.    East African Development Bank
6.    Industrial Development Bank of Kenya Ltd
7.    Industrial & Commercial Development Corporation
8.    Jomo Kenyatta Foundation
9.    Kenya Broadcasting Corporation
10.   Kenya Industrial Estate Ltd
11.   Kenya Literature Bureau
12.   Kenya Petroleum Oil Refineries
13.   Kenya Pipeline Co. Ltd
14.   Kenya Ports Authority
15.   Kenya Post Office Savings Bank
16.   Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
17.   Kenya Power Co. Ltd.
18.   Kenya Power & Lighting Co. Ltd.
19.   Kenya Railways Corporation
20.   Kenya Seed Co. Ltd.
21.   Kenya Tea Development Authority
22.   Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
23.   Kenya Veterinary Vaccine Production Institute
24.   National Cereal & Produce Board
25.   National Housing Corporation
26.   National Oil Corporation of Kenya
27.   Nyayo Buses Corporation
28.   Nyayo Tea Zones Development Authority
29.   Post Bank Credit Ltd.
30.   Rehabilitation Advisory Services Ltd.
31.   School Equipment Production Unit
32.   Small Enterprise Finance Co. (SEFCO)
33.   Tana River Development Co. Ltd.



page 1 of 5
PUBLIC OWNERS1IP (DIRECT AND INDIRECT
"COMMERCIALLY-ORIENTED" ENTERPRIS
1       African Diatomite Industries Ltd.
2.      African Marine General Engineering Co. Ltd.
3.      African Tours and Hotels Ltd.
4.      Agro-Chemical and Food Corporation
5.      Ark Ltd.
6.      Associated Battery Manufacturers Ltd.
7.       Associated Vehicle Assembly Ltd.
8.      Avon Export Ltd.
9.      Avon Marketing Ltd.
10.     Avon Rubber Co. Ltd.
11.     Bamburi Portland Cement Co. Ltd.        (Div)
12.     Bomas of Kenya Ltd.
13.     Booth Manufacturers Ltd.
14.     Brollo Kenya Ltd.
15.     Buffalo Springs Lodge Ltd.
16.     Busia Hotel Ltd.
17.     B.A.T. Development (K) Ltd.             (D)
18.     Chebut Tea Factory Ltd.
19.     Chemilil Sugar Co. Ltd.
20.      Chinga Tea Factory Ltd.
21.     Chloride Exide (K) Ltd.
22.     Clarkson Notcutt Ltd.
23.     Consolidated Bank of Kenya Ltd.
24.     C.M.B. Packaging Ltd. (Ex Metal Box)
25.     C.M.C. Holdings Ltd.
26.     C.P.C. Industrial Products Ltd.
27.     Dawa Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
28.     East Africa Industries Ltd.
29.     East African Fine Spinners Ltd.
30.     East African Oxygen (Kenya) Ltd.
31.     East African Pordand Cement Co. Ltd.
32.     East African Sugar Industries Ltd.
33.     Embu Hotel Ltd (Izaak Wafton Inn)
34.     Esion Plastics of Kenya Ltd.
35.     Everready Batterles Ltd.
36.     ESA Bookshop Ltd.
37.     Firestone (E.A.) Ltd.
38.     Galana Game Ranching Ltd.
39.     Game Lodges Ltd.
40.      Gathuthi Tea Factory Ltd.
41.     Gatunguru Tea Factory Ltd.
42.     General Motors (Kenya) Ltd.
43.     Githambo Tea Factory Ltd.



ANNEX A.2.2
page 2 of 5
44.     Githongo Tea Factory Ltd.
45.     Gitugi Tea Factory Ltd.
46.     Golf Hotel Ltd.
47.     Grindlays Bank Interational (K) Ltd.
48.     Highlands Paper Mills Ltd.
49.     Hoia Ginnery Ltd.
50.     Homa Bay Hotel Ltd.
51.     Horti Seed Co. Ltd.
52.     Hotel Investors Ltd.
53.     Hotel Span Ltd.
54.     Housing Finance Company of Kenya Ltd.
55.     ICDC Investment Co. Ltd.
56.     Ikumbi Tea Factory Ltd.
57.     Imenti Tea Factory Ltd.
58.     Industrial Promotion Services Ltd.
59.     Infusion Kenya Ltd.
60.     International Hotels (Kenya) Ltd.
61.     Iriani Tea Factory Ltd.
62.     Kabamet Hotel Ltd.
63.     Kagwe Tea Factory Ltd.
64.     Kambaa Tea Factory Ltd.
65.     Kangaita Tea Factory Ltd.
66.     Kanyenyaini Tea Factory Ltd.
67.     Kapkoros Tea Factory Ltd.
68.     Kapset Tea Factory
69.     Kebirlgo Tea Factory Ltd.
70.     Kenatco Taxis Ltd.
71.     Kenchic Ltd.
72.     Kencom House Ltd.
73.     Kenya Airfreight Handling Co. Ltd.
74.     Kenya Airways Ltd.
75.     Kenya Bixa Ltd.
76.     Kenya Bowling Centres Ltd.
77.     Kenya Breweries Ltd.
78.     Kenya Cashewnuts Co. Ltd.
79.     Kenya Chemical & Food Corporation      (R)
80.     Kenya Coffee Auctions Ltd.
81.     Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.
82.     Kenya Commercial Finance Corporation
83.     Kenya Cooperatives Creameries Ltd.
84.     Kenya Drilling Co. Ltd.
85.     Kenya Engineering Industries Ltd.
86.     Kenya Fibre Corporation Ltd.           (R)
87.     Kenya Film Corporation
88.     Kenya Fishnet Industries Ltd.
89.     Kenya Flamingo Airways Ltd.
90.     Kenya Fluorspar Co. Ltd.



ANNEX A.2.2
page 3 of 5
91.     Kenya Fruit Processors Ltd.
92.     Kenya Furfural Ltd.                    (R)
93.     Kenya Grain Grower Cooperative Union
94.     Kenya Horse Studs Ltd.                (R)
95.     Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.
96.     Kenya Industrial Plastics Ltd.
97.     Kenya Meat Commission
98.     Kenya National Assurance Co. Ltd.
99.     Kenya National Capital Corporation
100.    Kenya National Properties Ltd.
101.    Kenya National Shipping Lines
102.    Kenya National Trading Corporation
103.    Kenya Peanut Co. Ltd.
104.    Kenya Reinsurance Corporation
105.    Kenya Re-Properties Ltd.
106.    Kenya Safari Lodges & Hotels Ltd.
107.    Kenya Seed Driers' Co. Ltd.
108.    Kenya Shipping Agency Ltd.
109.    Kenya Taitex Mills Ltd.
110.    Kenya Tea Packers Co. Ltd. (KETEPA)
111.    Kenya Vehicle Manufacturers (ex-Leyland)
112.    Kenya Wine Agencies Ltd.
113.    Kerio Valley Ginnery Ltd.
114.    Kiamokama Tea Factory Ltd.
115.    Kibos Ginnery Ltd.
116.    Kiegoi Tea Factory Ltd.
117.    Kimunye Tea Factory Ltd.
118.    Kinoro Tea Factory Ltd.
119.    Kisii Bottlers Ltd.
120.    Kisumu Cotton Mills Ltd. (KICOMI)
121.    Lands Limited
122.    Lion Hill Camp Ltd.
123.    Litein Tea Factory Ltd.
124.    Loncom Ltd.
125.    Makomboki Tea Factory Ltd.
126.    Makueni Ginnery Ltd.
127.    Malindi Fruit Processors Ltd.          (D)
128.    Maralal Safari Lodge Ltd.
129.    Marsabit Lodge Ltd.
130.    Mataara Tea Factory Ltd.
131.    Mepal Plastics Ltd.
132.    Meru Ginnery Ltd.
133.    Meru Mulika Lodge Ltd.
134.    Mirimani Hotels Ltd.
135.    Milling Corporation of Kenya Ltd.
136.    Minet ICDC Insurance Brokers Ltd.
137.    Mogogosiek Tea Factory Ltd.



ANNEX A.2.
page 4 of 5
138.    Motor and Pedal Cycles Ltd.
139.    Mountain Lodge Ltd.
140.    Mt. Elgon Lodge Ltd.
141.    Mt. Kenya Bottlers Co. Ltd.
142.    Mt. Kenya Textile Mills Ltd. (MOUNTEX)
143.    Mumias Sugar Co. Ltd.
144.    Mungania Tea Factory Ltd.
145.    Mutuality Investment Trust Ltd.
146.    Mwea Ginnery Ltd.
147.    Mwea Rice Mills Ltd.
148.    Nairobi Oil Products Ltd.              (R)
149.    Nakuru Chrome Tanning Co. Ltd.
150.    NAS Airport Services Ltd.
151.    Nation Printers and Publishers Ltd.
152.    National Bank of Kenya Ltd.
153.    National Agricultural & Chemical Fertilizer Corporation (D)
154.    Ndima Tea Factory Ltd.
155.    Nestle Foods (K) Ltd.
156.    Njunu Tea Factory Ltd.
157.    Notcutt Longaroni Ltd.
158.    Nyamanche Tea Factory Ltd.
159.    Nyankoba Tea Factory Ltd.
160.    Nyansiongo Tea Factory Ltd.
161.    Nzoia Sugar Co. Ltd.
162.    Ogembo Tea Factory Ltd.
163.    Pan Vegetable Processors Ltd.
164.    Panafric Hotel Ltd.
165.    Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A.) Ltd.
166.    Pearl Dry Cleaners Ltd.
167.    Pollman's Tours and Safari Ltd.
168.    Polysynthetic E.A. Ltd.
169.    Ragati Tea Factory Ltd.
170.    Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd.
171.    Rift Valley Bottlers Ltd.
172.    Rift Valley Textile Mills (RIVATEX)
173.    Robinson Hotels (Msa) Ltd.
174.    Rukuriri Tea Factory Ltd.
175.    Safari Lodges & Properties (K) Ltd.
176.    Salt Manufacturers (K) Ltd.
177.    Sanganyi Tea Factory Ltd.
178.    Sanyo Armco Ltd.
179.    Savings and Loan (K) Ltd.
180.    Seracoatings Kenya Ltd.                (R)
181.    Simpson and Whitelaw Ltd.
182.    Sirikwa Hotel (Kenya) Ltd.
183.    Sokoro Fibre Boards Ltd.
184.    Sonotels (K) Ltd.



ANNEX A.2.2
page 5 of 5
185.    South Nyanza Sugar Co. Ltd.
186.    Sunset Hotel Ltd.
187.    Synthetic Fibre (K) Ltd.
188.    Tegat Tea Factory Ltd.
189.    The Tea Hotel, Kericho
190.    Theta Tea Factory Ltd.
191.    Thika Cotton Mills Ltd.
192.    Thumaita Tea Factory Ltd.
193.    Tiger Shoes Co. Ltd.                  (R)
194.    Tombe Tea Factory Ltd.
195.    Tourism Promotion Services
196.    Town Properties Ltd.
197.    Transport and Tourism Services Ltd.
198.    Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd.
199.    United Finance Company of Kenya
200.    Uplands Bacon Factory                 (R)
201.    Utalii Investrnent Co. Ltd.
202.    Wananchi Saw Mills Ltd.
203.    Warehouse & Forwarding Co. Ltd. (WAFCO)
204.    Wedco Ltd.
205.    Wire Products Ltd.
206.    Yuken Textiles Ltd.                   (R)
207.    Y-Fashions Ltd.
(R) - In Receivership
(D) - Dormant company not trading
(Div) - Divested



'- 
AMC A.3.1
pare 1 of 2
TWENTY PRIORITY CANDIDATES FOR PRIVATIZATION
PRELIMINARY VALUATION OF GOVERNMENT EQUITY
|   [   ~ASSET VALUES
|  COMPANY             GOK      GOK VALUE    GOK VALUE    TOTAL              COMMENTS
EQUITY        NET          GROSS         VALUE        AND LOANS
percent    KShs 000       KShs 000     KShs 000
1    E.A. OXYGEN*               22                                      504,386  Lised value of GOK
-GROSS ASSETS                                         137,295              equity
-NET ASSETS                            110,965                             SHs 44,620,000
2    CMC HOLDING                20                                      804,454  Lited value of ORK
-GROSS ASSETS                                        331,331               equity
-NET ASSETS                            160,891                             SHa 19,622,000
3    PORTLAND CEMENT            26                                      190,252  Listd value of GOK
-GROSS ASSETS                                         93,391               oquity
-NET ASSETS                             49,466                             Shi 46,500,000
4    KENYA SAFARI               34                                      812,568
LODGES*                                               326,285
-GROSS ASSETS                          276,273
-NET ASSETS
S    TOURISM PROMOTION          11                                       21,463
SERVICES *                                              3,768
-GROSS ASSETS
-NET ASSETS                              2,362
6    KENYA BIXA                 51                                       21,774
-GROSS ASSETS                                         12,462
-NET ASSETS                             11,105
7    E.A. PINE SPINNERS         100                                     229,106  Loan from EADB of
-GROSS ASSETS                                        411,461               SHs 25,288,000
-NET ASSETS                            229,106
a    HPCK                       50                                     3,377,361
-GROSS ASSETS                                       3,182,975
-NET ASSETS                           1,688,681
9    ESA                        49                                           76
-GROSS ASSETS                                             37
-NET ASSETS                                 37
10   NAKURU CHROME              20                            1,835       7,517  Going concem
TANNING                                                                     qualification
-GROSS ASSETS
-NET ASSETS                              1,503
11   HIGHLAND PAPER             57                                       31,638  Loans:
-GROSS ASSETS                                          19,315              DFCK SHs
-NET ASSETS                             18,034                             2,968,000
IDB SHn 3,721,000
12   PAN VEGETABLE              100                                       29,850   Going concern
-GROSS ASSETS                                         37,625               qualificaion
-NET ASSETS                             29,850
_    ,                           _                       - 



Annex2, J. 1
page 2 of 2
ASSET VALUES
COMPANY             GOK    GOK VALUE  GOK VALUE   TOTAL    COMMENTS
EQUITY          NET            GROSS         VALUE         AND LOANS
present      KShs 000        KShs 000       KShs 000
13     GRINDLAYS BANK            40                                           258,835
-GROSS ASSETS                                           710,659
-NET ASSETS                             103,534
14     KENYA TArTEX              81                                            79,905
-GROSS ASSETS                                           133,652
-NET ASSETS                              64,723                                                  i
15     KICOMI                    80                                             8,803
-GROSS ASSETS                                           163,406
-NET ASSETS                               7,042
16     GENERAL MOTORS            51                                           415,356   Higher valuation
-GROSS ASSETS                                           547,882                 of Nov. '90 on an
-NET ASSETS                             211,832                                 earnings basis.
17     FIRESTONE                 20                                         1,483,000
-GROSS ASSETS                                           411,144
-NET ASSETS                             296,600
18     KENYA                     50                                             8,872
ENGINEERING
-GROSS ASSETS                                            17,305
-NET ASSETS                               4,436
TOTAL FOR 18
COMPANIES                              3,266,441       6,542,228     8,285,216
NO DATA
AVAILABLE:
19    MOUNTEX                    92
20     UCHUMI*                   90
Note 1: * Companies to be divested in 1992
Note 2: For each company the following infornation is provided:
(a)     'Total Value": this represents the net asets for the whole company and approximates to the value of adjusted
shareholders' funds;
(b)     0GOK Value Net": this represents GOK's portion of 'Total Value," based on the percentage Government
holding as provided by the PRPC Secretariat;
(c)     "GOK Value Gross': this shows GOK's portion of fixed and currnt asse.
Note 3: The valuations are based on the ases of each company, adjusted where considered appropriate, and, where possible,
using the following procedures consistently:
(a)     Fixed Assets - Adjusted to take account of likely increases in value by increasing the value of the assets by
the official rate of inflation in Kenya prevailing over the period since the last revaluation;
(b)     Current Asst. Current Liabilities and Long Term Loans - Stated at ltest available historical costs;
(c)     lntan2ibls - Where identified, have been excluded;
(d)     GOK Loans - Net assets have been increased by GOK loans where these could be identified and GOK loans
are shown separately.
Note 4: Valuations above are highly preliminary and have been produced using immediately available information. No
verification or investigation has been made of the assets, liablities or fincial position of the companies.



ANNEX A.3.2
page 1 of 2
ENTERPRISES APPROVED FOR TIRE FIRS  PHASE OF DIVESTIJRE
BY THE PARASrATAL REFORM PROGRAMME COMlITTEE
1.    African Diatomite Industries Ltd.
2.    Associated Vehicle Assembly Ltd. (AVA)
3.    Bamburi Portland Cement Co. Ltd.
4.    B.A.T. Development (K) Ltd.       (D)
5.    C.M.B. Packaging Ltd. (Ex Metal Box)
6.    C.M.C. Holdings Ltd.
7.    East Africa Industries Ltd.
8.    East African Fine Spinners Ltd.
9.    East African Oxygen (Kenya) Ltd.
10.   East African Portland Cement Co. Ltd.
11.   Everready Batteries Ltd.
12.   ESA Bookshop Ltd.
13.   Firestone (E.A.) Ltd.
14.   General Motors (Kenya) Ltd.
15.   Grindlays Bank International (K) Ltd.
16.   Highlands Paper Mills Ltd.
17.   Housing Finance Company of Kenya Ltd.
18.   Industrial Promotion Services Ltd.
19.   Kenya Airways Ltd.
20.   Kenya Bixa Ltd. (NCPB)
21.   Kenya Cashewnuts Co. Ltd.
22.   Kenya Engineering Industries Ltd.
23.   Kenya Film Corporation
24.   Kenya Reinsurance Corporation
25.   Kenya Taitex Mills Ltd.
26.   Kenya Tea Packers Co. Ltd. (KETEPA)
27.   Kenya Wine Agencies Ltd.
28.   Kisumu Cotton Mills Ltd. (KICOMI)
29.   Milling Corporation of Kenya Ltd.
30.   Mt. Kenya Textile Mills Ltd. (MOUNTEX)
31.   Mumias Sugar Co. Ltd.
32.   Nairobi Oil Products Ltd.                 (R)
33.   Nakuru Chrome Tanning Co. Ltd.            (VL)
34.   National Bank of Kenya Ltd.
35.   Pan Vegetable Processors Ltd.
36.   Panafric Hotel Ltd.
37.   Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd.
38.   Safari Lodges & Properties Kenya Ltd.
39.   Salt Manufacturers (K) Ltd.
40.   Seracoatings Kenya Ltd.                   (R)
41.   Synihetic Fibre (K) Ltd.
42.   Tiger Shoes Co. Ltd.                      (R)



ANNEX A.3 2Z
page 2 of 2
43.   Tourism Promotion Services
44.   Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd.
45.   Yuken Textiles Ltd.                     (R)
(R) - In Receiverhip
(D) - Doma  company nt rdi
(VL) - Voluntary Liquidation



KENYA
PRIVATIZATION ACTION PLAN
UAPLEMENTA:TIONC11EDULE
FOR: Udch*i
ACTIONS                  ,Q2                                                      1.93                                    1.994
J  F  M  A  M  J  J A    S O    N  D  J  F  MA  M  J  JA 8 O0N  D  J  F  MA  M  J  J  A   B O  N D
DATA
COLLECTIONJ
INVENTORY
FACT SHEET       _________
DIAG3NOSIS      Term.s of Raemnce----
AND AUDIT        Request(or Proposals               ---
ExacAiaon dt Studies- 
Terms of Reference                     - ----
REGULATORY    Request tar Proposals--
FRAMEVWORK      Executin of Studies- 
nmplemrrnatitan--
Termns d atRefernoe-
VALUATION        Request for Proposal.                            -I
Execution- of Studi
Praspectues
DIVESTmJRRE      Tems of Reference               -         -   -
STRATEGY        Request far Proposal -s-
ExectAion of Studies--
Selling Mermoasndum                              - -
IMPLE ME NTATON Marketing, Pubic Rowt'- 
SALE            Campaigns                                                                                                                                                              0
_____  ~~NegotatiaonsLm--



KENYA
PRIVATIZATION ACTION PLAN
IIPLEENTATION SCHEDULE
FOR: East African Oxygen
ACTIONS                                   1gW2                                    t993                                    1994
J1 FMAMJ JASN DJ FMAMJJASNDJ F M A1JASOND
DATA
COLLECTIOI*
I0JVENTORY
FACT SHEET
DlAGNOSIS       Termns d Reference                  - _  _  _
AND AUDff        Request fr Prcposals    _  _  _
Executdinof Studies   _  _
Termse of Refewence- 
REGUJLATORY    Request for Proposals    _  _
FRAMEWORK       Execution of Studies                                                         -                                    _
~niempWeration--
Terrms df Reference--
VALUATION       Request for Proposals----
Execution ofStudies                       ---
Prospectus                                ---
DIVESTITURE     Teims o Refernce             _ _ _ _
STRATEGY        Request for Proposals                      - - --
Execution of Studies                          - -
Selling Memowrandumn                                                                                                                                                   ID
IPLEMENTATION        t      l R                                  -                                                                                                                      tMnta1 Pb  R      0
SALE            Campaigns                                                                                                                                                                   >
_____   ~~~Negotiatioins 



KENYA
PIATIZATION ACTION PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION 8CIEOULE
FOR: C.M.C. Packaging
ACTIONS                                  lgg2                                   l gs                                    1994
_______                     ~~J  F  M  Aim  J  JIASBON   D  J  F  M  A  M  J  J   AS    ONO   J  -F  M  A  U0 J  JAB   O 0N  D
DATA
COLLECTION/
INVENTORY
FACT SHEET
DIAGNOSIS       Terms ot Reieen o        _  _  _
AND AUDIT        Request for Proposals                                                                                     I  I - -
Execuition of Studies              -     -
Terms of Reference                 -     -
REGULATORY    Request for Proposals    _    _ _ _
FRAMUVORK       Exection of Studis        _             - _
Implenmentation- -
Terms ofRefwerence                       -
VALUATION       Request for Proposals                      --
Execution of Studies                         --
prospectus--   -
DIVESTITURE     Trmus of Re_ernc             _  _  _ 
STRATEGY        Request for Proposals----
___________Execution of Studies- 
SaIlng Meornxxdum                                                                                                                                                   Q
IMPLEMENTATION Markeing. Public Relt                            - O|
SALE            C_pagn                   _ ___
____   Negoation.



KENYA
PRIVATIZATION ACTION PLAN
IAPLEMENTATION SCHEDUL
FOR: Touism Promodon  Swvle
ACTIONS                                   1992                                    1993                                     1994
J  F  MA  m  J  JIA  S O    N  D  J  F  M  A  U  J  JIA S    O  N  D  J  F  MIA  M  J  J  A SO     N  D
DATA
COLLECT1ON/
INVIENTORY
FACT SHEET
DIATUEOSIS      Tems of Refernce       _  _               - _
AND AUDIT       Request for Proposals
Execution d Studie                 -  -  -1
TTems of Reference                  - -  -
REGUiLATORY    Request for Propo"sal 
FRAMEWORK       Executioni o Studies--
____________  mplarn-nartiont- 
Tena of Raemernce                         ---
VALUATION       Request for Proposals                      ---
ExecutAion dStudies                       ---
Ppospctus---
DIVSTITURE      Terms d Refeencm- 
STRATEGY        Request for Proposals- 
Execution of Studies- 
$"fIng Mernorendum                                 
IMPL.EMENTATION Mwklcelng. Pubic RAW                            -  -t
SALE            Carnpatgn                                                                                                                                                                0
_____  ~~~Negotlinorm



PRBWAIZATDM ACTION FLA
IMPEENETATON SC
FOR: KsnVm S81 Lodge
ACTIONS                                .002                                  1903                                 10X4
J  F M  A  14J  J  AS5ON   D  J  F  M  A  M  J  J  A  SO0  ND0  J  F  M  A  U  J  JAB   O 0N  0
DATA
COLLECTIO
INENTORY
FACT SI*ErT
DIAGNOSIS      Totn of Relmnoc                   - _  _
AND AUOIT      Request ftor Proposs   _  _ _ 
REGULATORY    Requet for Proposals                  - - --
FRALIEWORK    ExectiAon of Studs..          _ _
Toming of Ralsience- 
VALUATION      Requet for PropoWsal          l l
Exocution 0f Stud..- 
____ ____ ___ Prospectus
DVESTrTURE     T-m-a of Reenc-
STRATEGY       Reques tor Proposal.s 
ExocLAlon d Studie                            _ _
I_&V MsEarrndr                                   - E
IMPLEMENTATION Maikeling, Pubice Rea                            - -                                                                                                          nt4
SALE           Canipegn                                                                                                                                                     0-  P
____  ~~Nsgodetllo w---



ANNEX A.5
page 1 of S
Technical Assistance to Privatise Kenya Airways
riiaft Terms of Refereace
Background
1.     The Government of Kenya (GOK) is committed to a major parastatal reform programme,
with the following key objectives:
*      to improve the efficiency of the use of Kenya's scarce resources and stimulate
economic growth and job creation;
*      to enhance the role of the private sector in the economy;
*      to reduce and streamline the public enterprise sector;
*      to improve the regulatory environment.
In this context, President Arap Moi recently announced the Government's intention to privatise
Kenya Airways (KA) in 1993.
2.     KA is the flag carrier for Kenya. The core of its activities is the operation of scheduled
passenger services to some 24 international points and domestic services between four airports in
Kenya (Nairobi, Mombasa, Malindi and Kisumu). The majority of international services originate
in Nairobi, although there are some flights directly to and from Mombasa. Scheduled passenger
services operate on four groups of routes:
*      European (48% of revenue, 16% of passengers)
*      East and Middle East (16% of revenue, 9% of passengers)
*      intra Africa (20% of revenue, 24% of passengers)
*      domestic (9% of revenue, 46% of passengers)
In addition, a subsidiary company, Kenya Flamingo Airways, operates passenger charter flights to
Europe using Kenya Airways aircraft and a small freight operation.
3.    In recent years KA has had an unsatisfactory financial performance. For example, in
1989-90, the company had a net loss of 654 million Kenya Shillings (USD 23 million) on
turnover of around 3900 million Kenyan Shillings. This poor performance continued into the
following year. It was primarily due to KA's fleet renewal decisions which significantly
increased the cost base without a matching positive effect on income. This was in spite of a
strong increase in marketing expenditure.



ANNEX A-5
page 2 of S
4.    A Management Audit was conducted in 1989 which concluded thb the fundamental causes
of KA's poor performance were:
*     lack 'f clear objectiies;
*     lack of a long term corp&ite strategy;
*     lack of a medium term business plan;
weaknesses in institutional relationships between management and Governmest;
weaknesses in management processes, for example, regarding human resource
development, management information systems and operations;
lack of resources for investment.
These and possibly other issues will need to be addressed before the full privatization of KA can
proceed.
5.    KA has since received technical assistance from both Swill Air and Speedwing, consulting
arm of British Airways. The Swiss Air management support contract, now completed, provided
long term assistance principally in the operational functions. Speedwing are providing ongoing
assistance with business planning. However, many of the specific issues raised at the time of the
Management Audit remain to be addressed, for example, in the areas of route planning and
marketing and management information systems.
6.    This project document outlines a terms of reference for a consulting assignment which
will map out the key steps which need to be taken to address all remaining issues.
Scope of Work
7.    The consultancy assignment will have the following core tasks:
Task One
*     to update the Coopers & Lybrand 1989 management audit to reflect current
circumstances;
Task Two
*     to develop an action plan, with milestones, for addressing the issues raised by the
management review including costed programmes of short- and long-run technical
assistance where necessary;
Task Three
*     to develop a strategy and action plan, with milestones, for the transfer of KA
from the public to the private sector, identifying the duration and cost of the key
specialist inputs required.
8.    It is envisaged that the study will require five man months input over a n elapsed period
of three months, divided approximately as follows:



ANNEX A.S
page 3 of 5
Task One:            2 person months
Task Two:            1 person month
Task Three:          2 person months
9.     Each task is discussed in more detail below.
Task One - Update of 1989 Management Audit
10.   The update of the management audit would involve the following:
*     evaluate the present financial, operational and managerial position of the airline;
*      identify the institutional, informational, and management weaknesses contributing
to under-performance in particular areas.
*     recommend improvements in organizational structure and management processes
necessary to remedy the situation.
11.   The consultant will establish the changes that have taken place since the time of the
Coopers & Lybrand management audit and develop further recommendations in particular
problem areas. It will be particularly important to understand KA's strategic objectives (for
example, regarding the role of Nairobi as a hub, the future of charter services and the desirability
of airline alliances in the future) if a coherent set of recommendations for organizational
improvements is to recommended. This will require discussions with both senior airline
management and Government officials.
Task Two - Develop Action Plan
12.   The consultant will develop an action plan to implement the recommendations identified in
Task One. The overall objective of the action plan should be to identify the timetable for the
business improvements necessary for the privatization of KA. The action plan will cover all the
major functions of KA including:
*     planning
*     finance and information systems
*     marketing including customer service and sales
*     traffic services
*     operations
*      administration including human resources and training
*      engineering
13.   The action plan will identify the following:
*     the particular task and sub-tasks to be undertaken;
*     the duration and timing of the task;
*     the department and officer(s) to be assigned responsibility for implementation;
*     any additional external inputs required to supplement KA's in-house skills.



ANNEX A.5
page 4 of S
14.   Where external inputs are required, the type and duration of technical assistance will be
specified. This is likely to be a mix of long- (more than one year) and short-term (one to twelve
months). This should be costed at the rate of $30,000 per person month.
Task Three - Privatization Strategy and Action Plan
15.    The consultant will develop a phased strategy and action plan for privatization. The focus
of the work will be to identify the particular additional actions necessary to transfer KA from
public to private sector ownership and an overall timetable. It will not at this stage evaluate all
issues arising, but will set out the steps necessary to ensure their resolution within the timetable
for privatization. Where appropriate, the consultant will draw on and communicate their
experience of the privatization of other airlines around the world.
16.   The action plan will set out a timetable for the tasks listed below. It is envisaged that the
consultant will conduct preliminary interviews and research in each of the areas to scope the
inputs necessary to address each of them. The areas to be covered include:
*      confirmation with GOK of the objectives of privatization;
*      development with GOK and KA of a strategic framework for privatization; this
would be determined against the objectives set above; its coverage would include,
but not be limited to:
-      the size of stake (if any) retained by GOK in the airline;
-      the most appropriate method of sale, for example trade sale or public
share issue;
-      the overall timetable for privatization.
*      review of the legal framework surrounding sale of shares in KA;
*      review of changes in internal financial and accounting arrangements arising from
transfer of ownership of KA to the private sector; this would include pension
arrangements and the possibility of an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP);
*      preparation of a plan for the commencement of discussions with employees of the
implications of privatization;
*      preparation of a plan for the disbursement and dissemination of information to the
public;
*      development of terms of reference for the hiring of privatization advisors to
undertake the following tasks:
-      design and implement the detailed share sale strategy;
-      prepare bidding documents;
-      prepare the sales prospectus;
-      assist, as required with preparation of financial information necessary for
the sale;
-      identify possible buyers.



ANEX A.5
page 5 of 5
17.   Where external assistance is required to undertake these tasks the consultant will specify
the timing, duration and cost of the assistance required.
Organisation of the study
Reporting arrangements - to be completed
Steering committee - to be completed



ORGAIPZAllON CHAT OF EeU
Finndal r*ctudvlng
DWietum strategies
Exccutin Director (1) 
- Pol"cy programmc planning
- Estbishing PITs
- Asid in ooordinadbn
of prvatization implebmntation
- MonHir negotiations
Fhiance           Lcgal            Economics   |ei Pubhc                                       Accounts              Admin. &             MIS
|  2)l          (1)   1             (1)      |   |   Relatons    1                    F        (1)              Personnel (1           (1     |
- Fiancnia       - Reviw PE        - Monibr policy      - Sales campaigns                    - Project finances     - Personnel          - PE sles
rmxbucturlng     dstus             & regulainry         - Pubic relhtons                     - Procure equipmcnt    - Training           database
- Valuation      - Review legal    environment          - Pres campaigns                                                                 - Lhb with
- Tochniques     aspectc           - Analy  Impact                                                                                       GOD
of p_ratabn       -Prospectus      of dledktue
- Review PE      preaation         on eonomy
iqWdity                            - Revenue Impiicaons
of privaizalon
Higher Level Ud #"qg-Term)              - 10
I  |Prbdon Abvior (USAID)              - I
t    PiTS    I   I   >   |ePITS                      erPITS  R hAssstarts                  = 
TellEMlU MM                             , lo
PT m  P*.     o l.p4eme.dn Teams                                          I
>m
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



ANNE A.7
Page 1 of 11
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Executive Director
2.    Deputy Executive Director
3.    Privatization Advisor
4.    Attorney
5.    Economist
6.    Financial Analyst
7.    MedialPublic Relation Specialist
8.    Accountant
9.    Management Information Specialist



ANNEX A.7
Page 2 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Executive Director
The Exeutive Director will advise the Chairman of the Parastatal Reform Program
Committee (PRPC) on all issues concerning privatization. He reports directly to the Chairman of the
PRPC. He is the head of the Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit. He is responsible for:
-     Preparing for PRPC approval the policy, program strategy, selection criteria and
amual program targets, and establishing operational guidelines and transparent
procedures for preparation and implementation of the privatization process.
-     Selection and recruitment of Privatization Implementation Teams (PITs) and short
term consultants to value companies, prepare offering prospectus or offering
memorandum, elaborate marketing plans, review offers and assist in negotiating the
terms of sale.
-     Advising the Chairman of the PRPC on all issues concerning privatization/liquidation.
-     Coordinating privatization preparatory works: valuation, strategy and modality of
divestiture,etc.
-     Organizing and leading the evaluation of proposals and negotiation and negotiation
with potential buyers.
-     Advising PRPC Chairman on recruitment of ESTU staff and managing its technical
staff.
-     Monitoring and evaluating implementation of all activities related to privatization,
liquidation, labor issues, economic impacts of the reforms,etc.
-     Administrating and coordinating Privatization Technical Assistance.



ANNEX A.7
Page 3 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Deputy Executive Director
The Deputy Executive Director is responsible for:
Assisting the Privatization Specialist in preparation of Privatization Process Manual.
Preparing detailed annual privatization program with explicit targets, including the
work plan, timetable and agenda for implementation and various steps to be followed
to privatize those enterprises.
Advising in developing privatization and liquidation strategies for individual
candidates, designing agenda and assessing the preparatory works for privatization and
liquidation.
Assisting the Executive Director on establishing, selection and recruitment of PITs
and short term consultants to value companies, prepare offering prospectus or offering
memorandum, elaborate marketing plans, review offers and assist in negotiating the
terms of sale.
Assisting on recruitment of ESTU technical staff.
Administration of the office, personnel and MIS.
Developing organizational structure for ESTU, addressing issues such as staffing
requirements, job description for ESTU, internal organizational linkages, structure and
delegation of authority and work flows.
Assisting in developing operative flow chart for each technique of privatization and
advising on process of privatization and liquidation.
Advising on formulation and implementation of Management Information Systems.
Coordinating implementation of privatization Training program for PRPC and ESTU
members.
Administrating bilateral and multilateral Privatization Technical Assistance.
Preparation of Privatization Quarterly Progress Report.



ANNEX A.7
Page 4 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Privatization Adviser
bPQtzf lis will assist the ESTU in the formulation and
implementation of privatization program.
The Privatization Specialist is responsible for:
Developing policy and establishing operational guidelines and transparent procedures
for the preparation and implementation of the divestiture/ privatization process. This
could involve the preparation of a detailed Privatization Process Manual which will
describe the entire process, including specific functions that must be carried out by
ESTU, PRPC, and the specific role of each staff in the ESTU.
Assisting in developing privatization designing agenda and assessing the preparatory
works for privatization and liquidation.
Analyzing organiational, institutional issues and constraints to privatization program
development and implementation.
Establishment of procedures and criteria for selecting and prioritization of enterprises
candidates for privatization, or liquidation, and preparing a target list of enterprises
for privatization in a short period of time.
-      Reviewing financial management and auditing accounts of parastatal enterprise slated
for divestiture.
-      Assisting in establishing Privatization Implementation Teams (PITs) for each
enterprise or a group of candidate for privatization.
-      Identifying the requirements, writing scopes of work for tasks to be performed, and
assist in recruitment of short-term experts and consultants to deal with valuation,
marketing, financing, financial packaging, and with problems and issues as they arise.
-      Advising on the financial restrucuring measures such as the write down of asets,
alleviation of liabilites, recapitalization and spinning off of assets; and other financial
measures to prepare enterprises for privatization or restructuring such as debt
restructuring, conversion into equity,etc.
Oversoeing that proper valuations are expeditiously conducted and advising, in the
formulation of approaches to optimize benefits to the Government in setting and
negotiating valuation ranges that would lead to successful negotiation of divestnent
transactdons.



ANNEXA.7
Page 5 of 11
Assisting in selection of the optimum modality of privatization for each specific
umuaction, be it sale, lease, contracting out, concession agreement, liquidation,etc
and reviewing, as requested, the various strategies of privatiztion.
Reviewing prospectues and marketing plans and public tendering procedurs, to
nform a    tract the widest possible interest among suitable prospective investors.
Included    Ad be advise in packaging and presenting the enterprisms in ways to
appeal to. - most desirable investors from the Government's point of view, not
ncessarly only those offering the highest price.
Aalyzing the major difficulties and impediments at various stages of privatizton,
and formulating recommendations on how to deal with them most ffectively.



ANN A.7
Page 6 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Attorney
The Attorm is responsible for:
Identifying the main legal or tax barriers to investment (foreign and domestic) and
develop procedures to facilitate the flow of economically private investment from
abroad.
Assisting in establishing and maintaining fair and transparent procedures for the
privatization program.
Advising on legal restructuring of enterprises and other legal measures aimed at
preparing enterprises for financial restructring, privadzation or liquidation.
Contributing to the formulation of procedures and process of privadzation and
financiallhuman restructuring and guidelines to implement Government's policy.
Advise on possible restrictions on ownership composition and on the extent of foreign
ownership of divested asses.
Contributing to the formulation of Privatization Actions Plans for, privatization and
liquidation.
Assisting in title searches and transfers and ensuring compliance with tender, auction
or public offering procedures.
Identifying legal issues related, among others, to organization, functioning, debt
restructring and conversions, issuing and transferring of shares and dealing with
same.
Reviewing labor contracts, and contingent and hidden liabilities.
Reviewing and identification of key terms and conditions for inclusion in contract of
sale, etc. to fairly represent the interest of the Government.
Advising the negotiations teams in the drafting and negotiation of legal docu.men.
Advising on legal aspects of employee participation, employee stock ownership plans,
vouchers schemes etc.
Advising on developing new financial instrumentation for specific privatization
transactions.
Advising on preparation of prospems/offering memorandum,etc,
Assesing the government's programs to minimize adverse impact of worker's made
redundant or who could lose their jobs from privatization and restructring.



ANNEX A.7
Page 7 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Economist
The Eco          is responsible for:
Monitoring the policy and regulatory environment govemning the operations of the
different sectors and suggeting modifications or/and general or sectoral policies, as
appropriate, to increase economic efficiency.
Placing all reform activities of the privadzadon program in economic perspective and
developing tools to monitor activities.
Evaluating the process to allow continuing improvements based on past experience.
Collecting financial/economic data and information on the candidate for privatization;
preparing and updating Enterprise Data Sheet.
Assisting in reviewing companies financial operations.
Analyzing the potential revenues to the Governmont from profitable privatized
business under private ownership and operation.
Reviewing tax policies to assure they support and encourage investments and
privatization.
Analyzing privatized enterprise: conditions of sale, prospects of development,
summary of business plan, impact of privatization on employment, etc.
Analyzing and measuring the long term impact of the privadzation reforms on the
economy and the treasury.
Advising on assessment the market environment of divestment candidates sugesting
provisions for adequate competition and other liberlized policies connected with
efficient private sector operation.
Assist in developing privatization strategies, designing agenda an smessing the
preparatory works for privatization, restructuring and liquidation.
Advising on revenue implications of altenative approaches to privatization or
restructuring and analyzing projected future cost if Government do not privatize
comipanies.
Identifying entry barriers in Government controlled sector and designing policies to
encourage private investment.
Assessing market dynamics of affiliated enterprises candidates for privatization (size
and growth of market segments, sales and markedng, competition, pricing,etc,) in
order to avoid economic concentration or development of private monopolies.



ANNEX A-7
Pap 8 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: FnanKal Analyst
The Financial Analy  is responsible for:
Advsing on the financial restructuing meas    such as the write down of Ulm,
allevation of liabilities, rwcaitalization and spinning off of assets; md othr fnancial
measures to prepare enterprises for privaization or restnucuing sch   debt
restructuring, conversion into .quity,etc.
Reviewing companies financial operations.
Advising on the establishment of procedures and citeria for selectg mod
prioritization of enterprise candidates for privadzation, or liquadon.
Identing the requirements, writing scopes of work for tas to be perfured, and
assist in recruitment of short-term experu and consultants to deal wir  valuaon,
financing, financial packaging.
Preparing term of references for PiTs actvities ad various cot.ult; idMaifying
experts for specific assigments such as valuation, development of
restructuring/privatization alternatives and strategies, development of criti for
evaluation of opdons, investor search,etc; and coordinating and overseen   me
activities.
Assisting in selection of the optimum modality of privadzadon for ead spocific
transaction, be it sale, lease, contracting out, concession agreemen, l eiuadM ietc;
and reviewing the various stratogies of privaizaon.
Overseeing that proper valuations are expeditiously conducted and advisn, a
requested, in the formulation of approaes to opffmize benefi to th Govurmm  in
setting and negotiating valuation ranges that would lead to successfil negotaon of
divestment transacdons.
Reviewing prospectuse and marketing plans and public tending predures.
Advise on designing and implementation of Management Informatio Syste.



ANNEX A.7
Page 9 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Media/Public Relaion Spedalist
The Media/Public Relation Specialist is responsible for:
Developing a privatization communication strategy and a public awareness campagn
to promote and monitor public undertaking and support for the privatization proc4s
and to assure that transparency of the whole operations and reforms is strictly
respected and followed.
Building public understanding and support for divestiture and privatization and
monitoring the image' perception of the population vis a vis the reforms and
recommend remedial actions as appropriate.
Developing a public policy paper and a 'press kit' on privatization and restructuring,
to serve as background material for press briefings and speeches by government
officials, as well as the basis for a booldet which could be useful as a general
explanatory handout in response to inquiries and discussions with employees and
unions.
Developing mechanisms for feedback such as the use of seminars and interviews as
mechanisms to determine public perceptions and attitudes.
Holding conferences or workshops as a means of dialogue between Government,
private sector and union leaders.
Providing speakers (members of PRPC and ESTU, companies managers, etc) for
meetings of various organizations and business and trade associations.
Preparing speeches and magazine articles on the benefits of privatization.
Assisting in developing attractive" profiles for privatization candidates for broad
distribution and detailed information for investors.
Overseeing production and provision of Privatization Quarterly Progress reports to the
PRPC and others as required.



ANA.7
Page 10 of 11
Summary of Responsibilities: Accountant
hecu             is responsible for:
Managing ESTU and PRPC accounts.
Managing IDA project accounts of the Technical Assistance Privadzation Component,
monitoring compliance with Bank Guidelines for the employment of consultants and
regarding procurement as well as submitting withdrawal applications to the
Association.
Advising on the financial restructring measures such as the write down of assets,
alleviation of liabilides, recapitalization and spinning off of assets; and other financial
measures to prepare enterprises for privatization or restructuing such as debt
restructuring, conversion into equity,etc.
Reviewing financial management and auditing accounts of parastal enteprise slated
for divestiture.
Overseeing that proper valuations are expeditiously conducted and advising, as
requested, in the formulation of approaches to optmize benefits to the Government in
setting and negotiating valuation ranges that would lead to successful negotiation of
divestment transactions.
Assisting in administration of bilateral and multilateral Privatization Technical
Assistance.



ANNEX A.7
Page 11 of 11
Summary of Responsibilides: Management Infornadon System Specialist
The Management Information System Specialist (MIS) is responsible for:
Designing an MIS for the Privatization Program including: financial and economic
data on the candidates for privatization/liquidation; number, type, ownership and
value of enterprises partially or completely privatized or in process, with an indication
of the degree of privatization; number of entities closed; liquidated or in process of
liquidation; approximate book value or the stipulated minimum price of the new
shareholding/assets offered for sale; methods of privatization used; sales value;
buyers; the proceeds of the sales; and number of employees affected by privatization
Collecting and managing data and information on impact of Privatization on the
Economy: the relative shares of the public enterprise sector and the private sector in
GDP and in investment; the overall public entities surplus/deficits as a percentage of
GDP; total value of GDP.of assets transferred to private sector as a share of GDP;
number of investors involved; share of expenditure as a share of overall deficit;
change in Parastatal Enterprises surplus/deficit as a percentage of GDP
Collecting data on impact of privatization on capital market development: % of assets
privatized through public offering of shares; change in capitalization in the Stock
Exchange
Collecting and managing information on total number of employees, by enterprise,
affected by privatization, compensation and reassignment policy used, costs of these
policies and financing sources
Assisting in preparation of Privatizadon Quarterly Progress Report.



ANMIE A.1
Page I of 3
TOTAL M=IET BOUDGET
A. Privatiztio  Comonest (USS'
FY 93                  FY94                        PERIOD
YEAR I                 YEAR 2
GOK   |     EIDA       GOK  [IDA              GOK          IDA        TOTA
A. General mIntitutional Support
1. Higher Level Staff (x)
Executive Director                            60000                 60000                   120000      120000
Deputy Diector                               S0 50000               _000                    100000      100000
Accountant (1)                               24000                  24000                    48000       48000
Legl Specialict (1)                          35000                  35000                    70000       70000
MIS Specialist (1)                            24000                 24000           -        48000       48000
Economist (1)                                35000                  35000           _        70000       70000
Financial Analysts (2)                       64000                  64000                   128000      128000
Media Specialist (1)                  .       24000                 24000           _        48000       48000
Administrative Spec. (1)                     24000                  24000                    48000       48000
Rearch Assuianua (5)                          90000                 90000                   180000      180000
2. Support Staff                                 100000          .     100000                   200000      200000
3. Logisticl & Operational          500000                 500000           -    1000000                   1000000
Support/Office Equipment
4. Markein & Publicity                    -      168000          -     168000           -       336000      336000
Campsign                                                                         .
SUBTOTAL                    500000       694000    500000      694000    1000000       1338000     2338000
B. Divestiture of Specific Enterprises      -    4050000          -    4050000            -      8580000     8580000
- EEC Advisor                                   240000                240000
C. Specific Studies/Short term              -      340000          -     340000           -       680000      680000
consukantanTrmining, seminars                                       I
D. Capital Market                           -      150000          -     150000           -       300000      300000
TOTAL A+B+C+D                    500000     5474000    500000    5794000    1000000       10948000    11948000
Contingency (10%)                      50000       547400     50000      547400      100000      1094800     1104800
GRAND TOTAL FOR                     550000     6021400    550000    6021400      1100000      120428      13142800
PRIVATIZATION



ANNEX A.8
Page 2 of 3
B. PE Refrm CoMO_A aUSS'M  1/
FY93                            FY94                          PERIOD               GRAN
YEAR I                          YEAR 2                                               TOTAL
00K        MDA     OTHERV/    G0K         IDA    OTHER2/    (3K            IA    OTHER2/
A. Suppo  fw Slciort                    106         19U                 40C                            1095        235C      3445
Wide Reforn Acdoes
- Studaie (Executive
Dauabs; Funncbl
Flows; PE profiles;
PE iadebtednss
Platusim
Performanc
Authrie and
BoardF Leggl
and Regulatory)
SUBTaTAL                              106        19                   40                             1095        235C      344
B. Suppot for tb
Reoaaturing of 5
Target PEs
- Diagoic Studies                      36                                                              36C                   36q
- KFC                                 243                            1                                363C                 363(
- KTDA                                 10St                                                           108C                  108(
- NCPI                                  4                              4!                               9C                    9C
I   - KR                               81                             69(                             15CC                  150(
-KPA                                   S                              81                              168C                  168|
SUBTOTAL                             559                             2741                            834C                  834C
C. suppot for Saety
Net Design and
hulavmnataion
- Studies                              18          4051(                          24C                 36C         649       1
niplrnaentatioe
Support
SUBTOTrAL                              1S         409                1A           24C                 36C         649      1009
D.  Iniutloa  Support
to DGIPE
- LocaltstffCoa              431                             43                              86                              86
- Lon Team TA                                      96C                            96C                            192C       192
Personnel KI
- Short Term TA
Psnel (Dlb                                        15                                                            15C       15C
Mansageuwe)
- Logitical Support         oo                     2                                        100                   2        1202
- Trainug                                          135                             135                            27C       27C
SUBTOTAL                   1431                  144:       431                  1095       1862                 2542      4404
E. Supportto Relaed
Institutions
Regictr Oeneal                        5C                            541 144                                              1044
- Auditor Genrl                        24                                                             24C                   24(
-Aonwy ey eal                           o (1                          I1                              2C                    2
SUBTOTAL                               UC                             64                             1484                  148
GRAND TOTAL                1431      76          383        43      396          133        186     1127         5541     1868
(PE Reform)
.   luding 10 pen  "
2. Includs ODA, UNDP, NL, EEC and USAID.
3. Excludes poti  of Fumeial Control Adviser to DOIPE which is fanded fiom an existing UNDP project.



Pap 3 of 3
TO)TAL PROJEC  BUDErr{US
prvatization componem   p50000   6021400      ~         000   6021400              j1100000  12042800             13142100 
PE Reforn Comqponesn    1431033  7630000   3836000       1033  3969000    1335000 1362067  11279000  5541000   13651667
GRAND  TOTAL             1981033  13701400  3836000   RS1033  9990400    1335000 2962067  23321800  5541000   31324467
OTHER: Includes ODA, UNDP, NL, EECM god USAiD (we table A.7(3)).



ANNEX A.9
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
PRIVATIZATION OUARTER1Y PROGRESS REPORT
Outline
I.    Acton Plan dedded at the beginning of the quarter
1.1    Declared objectives
1.2    Detailed Action Plan
II.    Complted privatizations
2.1    Number, type, ownership and value of enterprises partially or completely privatized,
with an indication of the degree of privatization; number of entities closed and
liquidated; approximate book value or the stipulated minimum price of the new
shareholding/assets offered for sale; methods of privatization used; sales value;
buyers; the proceeds of the sales; and
number of employees affected by privatization (see table annex 1)
2.2    Analysis by privatized enterprise: conditions of sale, prospects of development,
summary of business plan, impact of privatization on employment, etc
2.3    Uses and allocation of sales proceeds: Funds, long term debt repayment, current
expenditure, investment budget
2.4   Progress on entities under receivership/Ceased operations
2.5   Impact of Privatization on the Economy: the relative shares of the public enterprise
sector and the private sector in GDP and in investment; the overall public entities
surplus/deficits as a percentage of GDP. Total value of GDP.of assets transferred
to private sector as a share of GDP; number of investors involved; share of
expenditure as a share of overall deficit; change in public entities surplus/deficit as
a percentage of GDP
2.6   Impact of privatizations on capital market development: % of assets privatized
through public offering of shares; change in capitalization in the Stock Exchange
2.7   Social Aspects of privatizations
-     Total number of employees, by enterprise, affected by privatizations
-     Compensation and reassignment policy used, costs of these policies and
financing sources



'K l
ANNEX A.9
Page 2 of S
m.   Progr   r o     entwprise undergoing privatlzadou
3.1    Number, type, ownership and value of offering stl on dte market; number of
enterprisL in the process of preparing sales offeringfrospctu; approximate book
value or the stipulated minimum price of the new sharebolding/aets, offered for sle;
the divestiture technique envisaged; and targeted/expected date for sale (see table
annex 2)
3.2   Entities under receivership/Ceased operations
3.3   Expected budgetary implications of the privatizations in process
3.4   Implementtion progress and schedule of privatization aows by enterprise (see
a3)
IV.   Dimfult  eed In the implementation of the privatlaon poa  and solutdo  used
or envisagu
V.    Other acivit  related to the program    -
5.1   Sectoral or other studies ( number, types, sector, etc)
5.2    Maktig  nd public campaign program
VI.   Declared objeives for next quarte and acdon pla



KBIYA
PUfVATIZAT1OM
ENBTERPReSES N PROCESS OF PfWATIZATION
ACTrMES/ASAlETS                      METHOD OF              NUMBER OF  ESTIMATED
8HARES UNDER                      PWVATIZATION  DEGREE OF  EMPLOYEES AMKOUNT OF
COMPANY      ACTIVIlY    PRVATIZATION  BOOK VALL EVALUATION  ENBVSAGED  PFUVATIZATKN AFFECTED TP_N_A_CTK
I



KENlYA
PRIVATIZATION COMPLAT1No
ACHIEVEMENTS
ACTWITES/ASSETi                                                                 NUMBER OM
SHARES UNDER                      METHOD OF   TERMS OF                        EMPLOYEES
COMPANY     ACTWITY    PRIVATIZATION  BOOK VALU WVALtAATION' PRIVATIZATION    SALE  DATE      BUYER    AFFECTED



iNWA
PUVAnA1o  ACHO nAN
FOR:
AC7TMlow                                                            1U                               1i
_J| F |MAM  Ji J AS  OND   IF  M AM   I JA                          JIFMA    | i   A 8 0 N D
DATA
COLLECnOw
NfWENTORY
PIACT SHEE
DIAGNOSI     Turn. of R&%.ena
AND AUMDIT    Reumfar   __                                                   _                        _ni_
Em-o tdln d bkid e
RtEGI.LAY   R. u  f                                   t ftcpmh
PRAMEVRK    Exiuc.dn itf Ibid.
Tw af _s mm                  lL                                         
VLUPEENATK> mowpub*PuZc  _    _T0                                                                          ||     |
E Trns d PA_ wn__
VMTEUflY      Requestfor PvPopm
so"mmotmi i bd
IMLEMEWATA    WkdUUI PW&iMo
SALE         CAMnP&**



ANNEX A. 10
Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF EFERENCE
FOR A STUDY ON
EMPLOYEE SIOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOPW)
Background
As Kenya is launching its privatization program, it becomes increasingly important to
provide an opportunity for more people to gain a stake in the success of privaization. Employee
stock ownership plans (ESOPs) are viewed as a crucial component of the govement's policy to
promote broad-based private ownership as a key objective of its privadzation stra.
The government's desire to become more knowledgeable concerning ESOPs, and is
requesting the assistance of an ESOP consultant to identify the issues, constrainls and required
procedures for implementing ESOPs as a component of the government's privatization strategy. In
addition, the government requests assistance in the development of ESOP-related training and
education programs.
The objective is the development of appropriate govemental ESOP policies and, if
needed, legislation. An additional objective is provide advice and assistance in educating the private
sector (mcluding professional service-providers) and the general public about ESOPs.
(1)   To conduct for government-designated -  onnel-Parastatal Reform Committee (PRPC)
and its Executive Technical Unit (Er!  initial in-counry training course on ESOPs
including: the historical background an  . :lopment of ESOPs; case studies; explanation
and evaluation of ESOP financing techniques; key issues concering plan design,
implementation, admiistration, and communication; issues concerning the design of a
regulatory regime; non-ESOP altrnatives for creating employee stock ownership; and
issues concerning employee education and changes in company cultures.
(2)    To confer with government-designated personnel (such as attorneys, accountnts, ad
pivatizatdon transaction specialists) in order to respond to their questions and concern
and in order to enable the
ESOP consultant to undertake reearch regarding institutional, legal, regulatory and other
changes that may be needed in order to adapt ESOPs to the Kenyan environment.



ANNEX A.10
Page 2 of 2
(3)    To advise the government on the formation within PRPC of an ESOP Advisory Sub-
Committee (e.g., comprised of leaders from business, labor and the government) and to
serve as a resource to that Committee in its formulation of ESOP policy recommendations
for the government.
(4)    To meet informally with government-designated business leaders, union leaders and
representatives from the media to discuss ESOPs, to answer their quetions and to enable
the consultant thereby to identify potential issues affecting the development and
implementation of ESOP policy.
(5)    To consult with attorneys and accountants on the drafting of policy and/or legislative
proposals to implement the government's ESOP policy initiative.
(6)    To provide ongoing advice regarding the ESOP policy initiative and the crafting of an
appropriate regulatory regime.
(7)    To design guidelins for the inclusion of ESOPs in privatizations.
(8)    To design ad provide advice regarding the convening of an ESOP conference for public
and private sector leaders in the country.
(9)    To provide, if requested, advice on the development of a Resource Center for Employee
Ownership to serve as an information center and clearinghouse.
(10) To provide advice on the development of ESOP-related employee communication,
education and trining materials.
(1 1)   To advise the government on the development of model ESOP legal documents.
(12) To advise the government on at. )ngoing basis on the strengths and weaknesses of its
ESOP initiative and to recommend, as needed, corrective measures.
(13)   To advise the government in its development of a strategy to include ESOPs in the
curricula at various levels of academia, including the business and law curricula.
(14) To assist the government in building an infrastructure of private sector professional
service-providers by conducting a series of ESOP-related workshops (e.g., for union
leaders, attorneys, business executives, accountants, etc.).
(15) To advise the government on the development of a public education campaign regarding
ESOPs.



Annexc A. I11
(Page 1 of 3)
ESTU TASK IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (1992-1994)
COMPLETION
ACTION                    DATE       1992      1993         1994
_ . . . . _ Q3 ~~~~IM4  0  Q1 P  WQ lQ1 I2 1@ Iq4
A. Institutions. CaDacity BDiding
Recruitnent of high level staff  December '92  _ 
(ESTU)
Set up Privatization Implementation  March '93    --_--
Teams (PITs)                    March '94          _
Select and appoint long-term    March '93
consultant to the NSE1CMA
Procure required MIS            January '93          _ 
B. Divestiture of Selected PEs
1992:
* Prepare TOR and bidding      August '92
documents for recruitment of
PITs, for 5 selected PEs for
privatizon in 1992                    II
* Screen and select PITs       August '92
* Undertake preparatory work for  August '92  _
privatization of 5 PEs
- Publicize sale of 3 PEs      September '92
P Publicize sale of 2 PEs      October '92
* Complete sale                January '93          _
1993:
- Seek final agreement for the list  January '93
of 10 PEs for privatization
* Prepare TOR for selection of  Febru. ' 9 3
PITs
* Select PiTs                  March '93
* Agree on Implementation Acton  March '93
Plan
* Undertake preliminary appraisal  April '93
and valuation
* Determnine method of sale    April '93                _
* Complete market analysis     May '93              _
* Prepare valuation report     July '93
* Prepare prospectuseshnformation  September '93
memorandum
* Sequence implementation sale of  August '93
10PEs
* Publicize sale               September-
November '93
* Complete sales               December-                      -- --
January '94



Annex A. 11
Page (2 of 3)
COMPLETION
ACTION                   DATE   1992  1993                 994
~~~~~~~~QI. Q21                 Q41 QQ1<214 P
1994:
* Seek final agreement for the list  January '94
of 5 PEs for privatization
* Agree on implementation action   February '94
plan
* Prepare TOR for selection of  February '94                 _  _
PiTs
a Selection of PMTS           March '94
* Undertake preliminary appraisal  April '94
and valuation
* Determine method of sale    April '94
* Complete market analysis    April '94
* Prepare valuation report    May '94
* Prepare prospectusesfimfomiation May '94
memorandum
* Sequence implementation sale of  April '94
5 PEs
* Publicize sale              June '94
* Complete sale               August-
October'94
* IDA Monitor progress        April '94
implementation               November '94
C. Sue_ort for Canital Market
Develonlment
* Select and appoint long-term  March '93          _
consultant to the NSE/CMA
* Implement clearing, settlement,  1993            _     _
and central registration system
 Simplify CMA rules and      1993
regulations
D. Specialized Studies. Tnvestment
Promotion Activities and
Trainong
ESOP
* Commission ESOP study       October '92       _
* Fmalize study and agree on action February '93
plan
Absorptive Capacity
* Commission absorptive capacity  February '93   _
study of the stock market
* Complete study              April '93



AnnxA. I
Page (3 of 3)
fiOMPLETIOrj          .
ACTION                  DATE        1992     V9           1994
- - Q31 > Qll                WA1 Q31 Ql  
Mutual Funds
* Assess modalities of setting up of February '93  --.--
mutual funds/unit trust
* Agree on action plan        March '93           ._
* Design publicity campaign for the October '92
privatzation program
* Inplement publicity campaign    January '93
* Elaborate investment promotion   November '92
program
* Implementation action plan  February '93
Training
* Assessment of training needs  August '92
* Develop a training pogran by    September '92
ESTU (topics, objectives,
tentative schedule proposed
methodology
* Idendfy training institutions: local November '92
and forign
* Agree with IDA on annual    November '92     _
training program            NovemberN'93
* Conduct program on annual basis      _ _ __
* Monitor promss of           November '93                        ._
implementini April'94
November '94



t
ANNEX A. 12
page 1 of 2
DETAILED EVALUATION CRITERIA
FOR MID-TERM REVIEW
A.    To evaluate progress in implementing the privatization component, the following
performance criteria satisfactory to IDA will be used:
efforts made to bring to the point of sale the agreed number of enterprises.
Indicators to be used to assess progress are Inter alfa:
*      number of enterprises for which the process of preparing sale offering
has been initiated.
*      number of PEs brought to the point of sale, number and values of
offers still on the market.
*      number of privatization transactions completed and proceeds of sale.
efforts made to market the privatization offering locally and internationally.
The performance indicators would be the cumulative value of assets
privatized; and
number of PEs liquidated or closed.
B.    Progress in implementing the PE reform component will be evaluated using
performance criteria satisfactory to IDA in regard to:
Planniny and evaluation: Efforts made by DGIPE (i) to design formats,
including appropriate indicators, for corporate plans, performance contracts,
performance evaluation schemes with provision for results-based
incentive/disincentive components; (ii) to cause PEs to adopt/agree to such
formats; and (iii) to operationalize implementation of such plans, contracts and
schemes. Indicators used to assess progress will Inter alfa include:
a.     number of PEs (and turnover/profits/output or other indicator of their
size) that have adopted plan formats/prepared corporate plans on their
basis/started implementation of plans;
b.     number of performance contracts between PEs (and size indicators as
above) and DGIPE that have been
prepared/negotiated/signed/implementation started;
c.     degree (in % of task completion) of DGIPE's progress toward
developing operational performance evaluation scheme for PE
supervision; and once developed, number of PEs participating in the
scheme, and number of such participations that include results-based
incentive/disincentive arrangements.



J
ANNE-X A-1
page 2 of 2
Comorate pvernance: Efforts made by DOIPE (i) to reform PE
corporate governance in accordance with policy paper principles; and
(ii) to advance toward full application of those reforms, as
incorporated in relevant legal/regulatory instruments, to all of the 33
strategic PEs as well as the 'pipelinew PEs still under DGEPE's
oversight/supervisory responsibility. Principal indicators will be the
coverage, in terms of number of PEs covered, by the implementation
of the reformed system, and the percentage of PE boards of directors
that Is constituted by private and other non-governmental/politically
appointed members.
Retructuring of 5 major targpt PEs: Progress in implementing the
work plans, including technical assistance actions, covering the
restructuring of KR, ICDA, NCPB, KPIC and KPA and attached to
the Development Credit Agreement. For each PE concerned,
indicators will be the number of restructuring actions carried out and
the number of technical assistance actions initiated and completed.
Reform of ky variables/subject areas: Progress in completing the
studies on subsidies, indebtedness, boards and instutions, and legal
and regulatory framework, and adoption and implementation of the
action plan included in each. Following completion of the studies,
principal indicators will be the degree to which each of the action plan
will have been carried out.
Financial burden on governme: Degree to which there has been a
reduction in the direct and indirect overall financial burden on the
government's resources constituted by the PE sector.



ANNEX A. 13.
page 1 of 1
Usting and Timetable for
Proposed PE Uquqdadons
1.    Yuken Textiles, Ltd.
2.    Nairobi Oil Products Ltd.
3.    Seracoatings (K) Ltd.
4.    Synthetic Fibre Kenya Ltd.
S.    Kenya Drilling Company Ltd.
Timing:      All the above PEs, which have been placed in Receivership, would be
processed for liquidation by the end of 1994.



ANNEX B. I
page 3 of 3
govermment and PEs (such as non-collection of utility bills or other non-costed
services).
c)    Identify which flows are the most significant and which PEs are their major beneficiaries.
d)    Estimate the size of each of these subsidies and flows for the "Big 8" strategic PEs
(KPTC, KPLC, KPA, KR, KA, ICDA, NCPB, KIDC), and any enterprises closely
associated with them (for example KPLC's associated power companies), and for any
other major beneficiaries identified at c) above.
e)    On the basis of the findings of the above work and of further assessing the impact of the
withdrawal/modification of each subsidy or related flow on each PE concerned, prepare
(i) a time-phased plan for eliminating the indirect subsidies, or if a case can be made for
temporarily retaining the benefits provided by them in some form, replacing them with
direct subsidies in accordance with the transparency principle contained in govermnent
policy; with a timetable and specific action steps for each PE concerned; and Cii) a time
phased plan, by PE, for phasing out direct subsidies, including those that may have been
substituted for indirect subsidies as in (i) above. Set out the anticipated financial
implications for Government, and when these will occur.
Timing of Study
A preliminary draft of the study report should be made available to Government by September
15, 1992. After discussions on the draft and on its recommendations with Government and IDA, a final
draft should be completed and submitted by December 31, 1992.



ANN~EX B.
Page 1 of 2
DGIE TSK
A. INTRODUCTION: DGIIPE PRIORrrY TASKS I/
T'he broad priorities for DGIPE, which help define the tasks to be undertaken to set
it up, are:
(a)    human and logistical resources to be in place according to the staff resourcing
program (Annex B.9);
(b)    introducing appropriate accounting and information systems;
(c)    establishing appropriate relations with PEs;
(d)    introducing more commercial management policies and practices into PEs;
(e)    testing and monitoring progress on (b), (c) and (d) through the initiation, monitoring
and supervision of the restructuring programs for KPA, KPLC, KPTCM, KR, and
NCPB including on their related corporate planning and performance contract
actions;
(f)    ensuring that the legal and regulatory framework will allow the requisite reform
measures to be taken and will be conducive to the PE sector operating on a truly
commercial basis; and
(g)    developing a comprehensive five year reform program which will implement the
action plans resulting from the various studies/advisory assignments and whose
timing will be via prioritized phases reflecting their coverage as follows: (i) PEs
which are recipients of subsidies; (ii) loss-incurring and potentially loss-incurring PEs
in addition to those already included under (i); and lastly (iii) any sftrategic PEs not
yet included in (i) or (ii).
(h)    implementing the action plans, as agreed between GOK and IMA, that are based on
the studies/reviews on corporate governance, subsidies, indebtedness, and
restructuring of five target PEs.
1'Not necessarily in order of priority.



ANNEX82
B. OOPETASK IMPLEMENATION PLAN (1N - 1                                                Pge 2df2
ACrtON                                COMILMON   loft                      _1                  14
____________________________________                DATUt    0Q     04   01   02   09   W4  Ql  O2   O3  Q4
A) hatituti  & Catdqey *tlap:
Select a"d appoin hag-tu   .eeeeaa We_dt TA tmlad                   at 93
Dul sA te datia de mhafom VP to PPse D O IPla 1o0                 OCL
staff . ps- PC aff ummas IasE. (1)                                OCL .2          --  -.-
Pipuags aw  deuelponsa pn ms ad ion"d am  cumpe sourme    Ja.. 93                       --- --
Co-plemt gPerathasf d-Meuu S-py*ies              X Jtue p3                                    _-_-.-___u_ --
*) Date Collsdim  ad stem
Complet proe. 3 e         l Pr&                                   May93                        __ __
D.t.emh. PU, to be ebinllanaaPebUmetutee p3s.u &)eatmmtta         Oc91
DwI  sad b*u.eaeeu dtas                                           Fob. 9
Desp sad Implemat Mfg (nltms tompte hed)                          May93                        _, __
Complte profilesha  umletoolyf  md PE& popaed                     Aas. 93                            _  _ -
Complete plaikse  nm_let  Pn                                      Nov. 93                                     ._
C) Cozpowes Gapeream"
Lbe hgtumdak w  enader of aceethg faclcm
PleaD, rpinG vespea  gmmuom  .d apu attc pla (1)                  Aug. 92
Commsce tetro          of ew      ab ginlui precedetes            Jea 93                     --_        ---
Als standari begat ifr PR seeurpon ph.                            ML 93_-
Cmplet papataon of esepets via" for tea Pta                       Jusa 93                      __   -
C4Mplte pspraUd  be a 6iber IS P                                  Dec. 93
Complete pepentim for an mum    Es F                              Jua. 94                                           - -  --
Dnhl sadatd fenat fer pedonau.  _sotS                             Nov. 92
Drft pedoomeam coatm  for KA. KPLC ad XTC=                        Feb.93
Negotawte .a         palwesem m_May 93 
Negotiate sad coand.di 10 sibimO psdsonm      intram              Avg. 3               _                  -
Negotte ad oc ed we adl_    I         pe        a a               Feb.94                                   _
Celos  pede se  tact. wead smabl egIP                              Au. .94                                                ------
Coiale.m etdy a setborkhm ad bearde                               Ap. 93
Ploalt aecte pio be fttsakbmlhg bathotte  ea bosrtl               July93 "                                 -
Implement tattoaauds of weolde sad Ioads                          Juna 94                                      ------ -
D) Phaacle Plea & ladab* 1  u_
CommImw &deel om tl ady (1)                                       Sop, 92
plaihe fiactahl no" etd Na ege seake Ph (1)                       Jan. 93               __    -
l5iplsaeet actF  p                                                De                                - -.-- 
944w   ataadtag noe NW ape mm ple                                 jai. 94
liplet   W ph                                                    Oa.94                                                -  ------
1_ debt sry leol behtra.em                                        Oct92
Comm_sd. PE Indebtednes stdy                                      NOW v9.
Flat. eedy           _ ca saes acdn Plea                          May3                    -  --      - -.
Compete tmplemtatcs of adie  -                                    Sep. 93                             _  __  -
I) Targ  PEs fo R_eacudtg
Age   corpoteeo taag teree wit KR. KPA. KMTC.rDA. a NCPB (1)  Oct9 92
Moaoorpboga . saretfor EX, EPA.%rITC. TDA aed NCMB                DeC.93                       __          ------
Revesw sad  st sew tarpas                                         Jaa.93
Motelor p _ em                                                    Sep.93
1) Other lastitatle Sopro
Phlte epoo an PR lepl _"a le  mtma                                Nov.9_ 9 2.
eaict spI    I t to laeteds.ga                                    Iwuse 93
Ea,s risted olbas uta Rogh;rar0eeeeLAadkorOearnL
todk Embaug sd Adoas    GatG_     boas ta                     D c. 94
G) Saety Not
Phathe etysangmst for ddym ahofed (1)                             OCt.91             - -
coacded afirety Se" phd umohe                                     Oct.92----
Se VP cfaty sa feed                                               Mar.93                _    .__
Com_e_e. p_y__me,
Audit fuad cad mvle adwm                                          Nov. 93
MId-ta,. -eatew                                                    _____ _               _     ____
Noteeg
(1) ByGOE-WDA aguinat. ctm.
*  oeplWdo of tal
___ * oigtak



DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT AND PUPUC ENTERPIIISES
PROPOSED ORBANZATION
ChiefEx c
Dire  rate                                               Dicectorate of                                     Di     ae  Of
of Fin oei|                                              PE Monitoring                                       PE Rform|
& Sup ervison
Personnel &       PE DObMiacilPbi                                                        Commercia          S    msem          Reform                    Dep  mnent
Adminstratin     sMnagemnent              Control            Srics                       Enterprises       Dev nepment        Program                    for Soci
Department        Department              D      Man         Dpa       t                 D-partment         Depatmont         Department                 Safety Not
(13 sB  (a                              d(dd                                             (1a0               2 n4                                         (staff nost tb)
PERMANENT                                                                    DURATION OF PERP ONLY
< ---------       ----------       ----------        ----------        ---------        ---------->      -  ---  -  -  -   -  --   -  -  -  -   --   -  -  -  -  -



DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INVESTMENTS AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
FUNCTIONS CHART
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
|Dept. of Government 
|Inv. & Pub. Enterprise
| PE D-bt                        Accounting Otficer for          [PE Monitoring and                 PE Reform Policy                 PE Reform Social
Management                       Fin. Flows to/from  PEe          Suporvision                       Planning & Implem.                 afety Not
Loan Recording                 - Subsidies                     - PE Objectives                      Dignosdc Studies               - Policy & Planning
On-Lending Agreornents        - Investments                    - Corporate Governance            - Policy & Planning               - Fund Mange-ment
GOIK Guarantees               - Dividends                      - Executive Database              - Reform Implebmntation           - Monioring
Creditor Liaison                 Custodian of Shares            - PE Plans & Budgets                Regulatory Advice                Post Evaluation
Statermnts                                                     - Performance Contracts              Remedial Action
R-oonciiiations                                                - Monitoring and                     Intrae writh ESTU
Evaluation
LUaiaon with                                                   - PE Rewards & Sanctions
other Departmnts
- Sector Aggregation
- Appointment of PE
Auditors
UIa..o with SeAor
Ministries



ANNEX B.
Page 1 of 17
DGIPE: JOB DESCRPTIONS FOR KEY POSTS
1.    Finance:                           Director
2.                                       Manager, Personnel and Administration
3.                                       Manager, PE Debt Management
4.                                       Manager, Financial Control 1/
5.    PE Monitoring & Supervision:       Director
6.                                       Manager, Public Services I/
7.                                       Manager, Commercial Enterprises
8.                                       Manager, Systems Development Z/
9.    PE Reform:                         Director
10.                                      Manager, Reform Program 2/
1.                                       Manager, Social Safety Net
12.   Advisory:                          Advisor to Chief Executive _/
1J/ A UNDP-funded consultant is in place.
2/ To be filled by consultants fumded by the project.



ANE .5
Page 2 of 17
JOB TITLE: Director of Flnance
Role:
1.    The Director is responsible for the management of all PE debt and for the accountig
officer functions. The Directorate of Finance comprises two departments: the PE Debt
Management Departnent and the Financial Control Department.
Reportin:
2.     The Director will report to the Chief Executive, DGIPE.
Responsiblities:
3.     The Director is responsible for:
a)  developing the strategic objectives and the policy of the Directorate of Finance;
b) directing the managers, and appraising the operations of the Directorate's two
Departments;
c) all matters directly relating to PE debt, including:
(i)  appropriate records relating to Pe debts to Treasury;
(ii)  drawing up, concluding and signing on-lending agreements;
(iii)  drawing up, concluding and signing Treasury loan agreements for loans to PEs;
(iv)  approving or vetoing the disbursement of funds mentioned in (c)ii and (c)iii above;
(v)  ensuring that PEs' internal debt records reconcile with DGIPE records;
(vi)  producing statements of loan interest and principal repayments due in respect of
PE loans;
(vii) liaising with PE creditors, other departments and ministries as necessary;
d)  maintaining accounting records in respect of all financial flows to and from PEs and
reporting thereon:
(i)  such flows wiUl include: subsidies, any new investments in PEs, dividend
payments from PEs to Treasury;
e)  acting as custodian of share certificates in respect of all GOK investments;
g) directing the managers of the PE Debt Management Department and the Financial Control
Department in carrying out the above tasks.
Qualifications:
4.     The Director of Finance will:
a)  have extensive professional experience, at senior management level, in the following
areas: financial systems management in the private and public sectors; management
information systems; debt instruments; bi- and multi-lateral debt issues; commercial debt
issues; debt recovery, servicing and rescheduling.
b) be a chartered accountant, and have
c)  a minimum of 15 years' relevant work experience.



ANNEX B.5
Page 3 of 17
JOB TITLE: Manager: Personnel & Administration Department
Role:
1.     The Manager of the Personnel & Administration Department manages and is responsible
for the personnel and administrative function within DGIPE.
Reporting:
2.     The Manager (P&A) will report to the Chief Executive, DGIPE.
Responsibilities:
3.     The P&A Manager is responsible for:
(a) establishing and maintainig appropriate personnel and administrative records and systems
to meet statutory requirements and the needs of DGIPE;
(b) establishing and maintaining appropriate financial systems to manage the internal finances
of DGIPE;
(c) designing and implementing appropriate recruitment processes when necessary;
(d) the secretarial staff to be asigned to the directors and the pool of typists;
(f) the maintenance of office equipment (including computers, printers and photocopiers);
(g) act as Staff Counselor and Advisor;
(h) supervising staff within the Personnel & Administration Department in carrying out the
above tasks.
Authority:
4.     The P&A Manager may:
(a) authorize the purchase, on account, of stationery and other office supplies as needed;
(b) authorize staff pety cash expenses of up to Ksh.500 per claim;
(c) negotiate and signmantenance and service contracts for office equipment including
computers, prnters and photocopiers.
Qualifications:
5.     The Personnel & Adminisation Department Manager will have:
(a) experience in the following areas: payroll management, expense claim systems,
maintenance and service conucts, recruitment, counselling, employee benefits (pensions,
health, annual leave etc) and office supplies procurement;
(b) a good knowledge of Mmistry of Finance administrative procedures;
(c) suitable intrpersonal skills;
(d) a minimum of 5 years' relevant work experience.



ANE B.S
Page 4 of 17
JOB TrTLE: Manager, Debt Management
Role:
1.     The Manager, PE Debt Management (DM), manages the PE Debt Management
Department. His role is to manage all matters direcdy relating to public enterprise debt.
Reporting:
2.     The Manager (DM) will report to the Director of Finance, DGIPE.
Responsibilities:
3.     The Manager (DI)M is responsible for:
(a) establishing and maintaining appropriate records relating to PE debts to Treasury;
(b) drawing up on-lending agreements for funds procured by the External Resources
Department (ERD) of the Treasury and on-lent to PEs;
(c) drawing up loan agreements for direct Treasury loans to PEs;
(d) safe-guarding such agreements;
(e) liaising with the ERD to ensure appropriate terms and conditions are negotiated when on-
lending externally-sourced loans to PEs;
(f) producing statements of loan interest and principal repayments due from PEs;
(g) ensuring that PEs' internal records correctly reflect their indebtedness and that these
records reconcile with DGIPE's records;
(h) liaising with creditors and with other departments and ministries as necessary;
(i) notifying holders of variable interest loans of changes in the rates applicable to those
loans;
(j) supervising staff within the PE Debt Management Department in carrying out the above
tasks.
Authority:
4.     The Manager, (DM) has the authority to:
(a) conclude and sign on-lending agreements for funds procured by the External Resources
Department of the Treasury for PEs;
(b) conclude and approve Treasury loan agreements for loans to PEs;
(c) approve or veto the disbursement to PEs of funds mentioned in 4(a) and 4(b) above;
(d) personally inspect or remove, or authorize any of his staff to inspect or remove, PEs'
accounting records or any data or documents pertaining to PE debt at any time;
(e) approve DGIPE staff expenses incurred in Kenya up to a limit of Ksh.5,OOO per claim;
(f) approve computer hardware and software purchases up to a limit of Ksh.8,000;



ANNEX B.S
Page 5 of 17
Qualifications:
5.     The Manager (DM) will have extensive professional experience in the following areas:
(a) debt instruments, bi- and multi-lateral debt, commercial debt, debt guarantees, on-
lending, debt recording, monitoring, recovery and servicing, and managing computer-
based debt-recording systems;
(b) skills in managing a group of computer-literate data-management and accounting staff;
(c) be familiar with Treasury procedures;
(d) have a minimum of 8 years' relevant experience.



ANE B.S
Page 6 of 17
JOB TMLE: Manager, PE 1inandal Control
Role:
1.    The Manager, PE Financial Control, is responsible for maintaining accounting records in
respect of atl financial flows to and from public enterprises and reporting thereon.
Reporting:
2.     The Manager, PE Financial Control, will report to the Director of Finawe.
Responsibilties:
3.     The Manager, PE Financial Control, is responsible for:
(a) establishing and maintang appropriate accounting systems to monitor all financial flows
to and from PEs (such as subsidies, any new investments in PES and dividend payments
to Treasury);
(b) designing and producing appropriate reports for the Director of Finance;
(c) ensuring that PEs' intenWal accounting records reflect correctly these flows;
(d) liaising with Treasury, and other departments and ministries, as necessary.
(e) supervising staff within the PE Financial Control Department in carrying out the above
taskcs.
Qualifications:
4.     The Manager, PE Financial Control, will:
(a) have extensive professional experience, at management level, in the following areas:
financial systems management; management information systems; debt management;
(b) skills in managing a group of data-management and accounting staff;
(c) be a chartered accountant, and have
(d) a minimum of 8 years' relevant work experience.



ANNEX B.S
Page 7 of 17
JOB TIME: Director: PE Monitoring & Supervision
Role:
I1.    The Director is responsible for monitoring and supervising both PEs that are being
prepared for privatization and PEs that are to remain partly or wholly-owned by GOK. To this
end, he will direct the activities of the Public Services Department, the Commercial Enterprises
Department and the Systems Development Department.
Repordng:
2.     The Director will report to the Chief Executive of DGIPE.
Responsibilities:
3.     The Director is responsible for:
(a) in consultation with appropriate sector ministries, setting strategic objectives for PEs tha
are majority-owned by GOK and setting achievable performance targets for these PEs;
(b) developing and introducing effective procedures for the monitoring and supervision of
public enterprises and other GOK equity and loan investments in order to:
(i)  ensure that PEs are meeting their objectives and agreed targets;
(ii)  ensure that other equity and loan investments are performing according to
expectation;
(iii) protect the long-term interests of GOK as a shareholder; and
(iv) provide early warning of financial or other problems which could have an impact
on Treasury.
(c) developing and introducing effective procedures for ascertaining sector ministries'
policies, incorporating such policies into PE plans and ensuring that the application of
those policies is monitored by DGIPE and reported back to sector ministries.
(d) advising the Chief Executive on the applicability of performance contracts and, in respect
of those PEs for which this mechanism applies:
(i)  designing, drafting, negotiating and finalizing;
(ii)  ensuring appropriate procedures for the objective evaluation of performance and
contract compliance by both parties;
(iii) ensuring that approved processes for determining and applying rewards and
sanctions are followed on a timely basis;
(iv)   preparing reports on PE performance under such contracts.
(e) representing GOK's financial interests as shareholder, financier and/or guarantor with
regard to reviews of tariff increase applications from PEs.
(f) aggregating PE results so as to provide sector information for Treasury and sector
ministries.
(g) ensuring that training requirements of staff within the directorate are geared to the needs
of the directorate's functions, are reviewed at least once a year and that training programn
are conducted as planned.
(h) preparing the budget of the directorate and ensuring that costs are contained within the
approved budget.



ANNEX B.S
Page 8 of 17
(i) day-to-day supervision of the maners, directing the managers, and appraising the
opendon of, the Public Services Department, the Commercial Enterprises Departm
and the Systems Development Department.
G) directing effective liaison between the above mentioned departments;
(k) liaising with the directors of finance and the reform program to ensure proper
coordination of activities;
() evaluadtng the performance of the directorate as a whole;
Quanliatlois:
5. The Director of Monitoring & Supervision will have:
(a) extensive professional experience in the following areas: financial accounting,
management information systems, parastatal restructurng and privatization;
(b) a university degree and be a chartered accountant; and have
(c) a minimum of 15 years' relevant work experience in both the public and private sectors.



.
ANNEXB.
Page 9 of 17
JOB TiME: Manager: Monitoring & Supervision of Publc Srice Entoepris
Role:
1.     The Public Services Department Manager is responsible for monitoring and supervising
those PEs that provide public goods and services. In addition to managing tasks relating to the
monitoring and supervision of commercially-oriented enterprises, the PSD Manager will also be
responsible for managing tasks tailored to the special requirements of monitoring and supervising
Public Services enterprises.
Reporting:
2.     The PSD Manager will report to the Director of Monitoring and Supervision.
Responsibilities:
3.     The PSD Manager is responsible for:
(a) setting the strategic and other objectives of PEs-that take account of social factors;
(b) evaluating the need for the provision of non-commercial services;
(c) evaluating the need for subventions or other forms of direct subsidy;
(d) drawing up, approving and monitoring performance contracts;
(e) ensuring the application of approved corporate governance procedures;
(f) evaluating and approving the corporate plans and budgets (annual and three-year) of PEs;
(g) determining and applying appropriate rewards and sanctions to boards and, in turn, senior
managements, to reflect their achievement as evidenced by actual performance against
agreed targets;
(h) monitoring and reporting PE performance at a sectoral level;
(i) appointing independent qualified auditors to majority-owned PEs;
(i) ensuring that PEs publish their annual audited accounts;
(k) liaising with sector and other relevant ministries and departments as necessary;
(   supervising staff within the PE Financial Control Department in carrying out the above
tasks.
Qualifications:
4.     The PSD Manager will:
(a) have extensive professional experience, at management level, in the following areas:
financial systems management; management information systems; debt management;
(b) have skills in managing a group of data-management and accounting staff and be familiar
with Treasury procedures;
(c) be a chartered accountant; and
(d) have a minimum of 8 years' relevant experience.



ANNEX R.5
Page 10 of 17
JOB TITLE: M er: Monitoring & Supavidion of Commerdal Enterprlsi
RSole:
1.     Ahe Commercial Enterprises Department Manager is responsible for monitoring and
supervising toe  PEs that do W provide public goods and services.
2.     lhe CED Manager will report to the Director of Monitoring and Supervision.
3.     The CED Manager is responsible for:
(a) seting the strategic and other objectives of PEs;
(b) establishing and maintaining a database of suitable candidates for possible appointment to
PEs at board or seaior executive level;
(c) ensuring the applicaion of approved corporate governance procedures;
(d) evaluaing and approving the corporate plans and budgets (annual and three-year) of PEs;
(e) determining and applying appropriae rewards and sanctions to boards and, in tWn, senior
managements, to reflect their achievement as evidenced by actual performance against
agreed targets;
(f) monitoring ad reportng PE performance at a sectoral level;
(g) appoini  _inendent qualified auditors to majority-owned PEs;
(h) ensuring that PEs publish their anmnal audited accounts;
(i) liaising with sector and other relevant ministries and departments as necessary;
(j) supervising staff within the PE Financial Control Department in carrying out the above
taslc.
QualfIkadons
4.     The CED Manager will:
(a) have extensive professional experience, at management level, in the following areas:
financial systems management; management information systems; debt management;
(b) have skills in managing a group of data-management and accounting staff and be familiar
with Treasury procedures;
(c) be a chartered accountant; and
(d) have a minimum of 8 years' relevant experience.



ANNEX B.5
Page 11 of 17
JOB T1TLE: Manager: Systms Deveopnent Department
Role:
1.     The Manager of the Systems Development Department is responsible for the development
and implementation of management information systems to support the Directorate of PE
Monitoring & Supervision's functions.
Reporting:
2.     The Systems Development Manager (SDM), will report to the Director, Monitoring &
Supervision, DGIPE.
RlponsibiHtlis:
3.     The SDM is responsible for:
(a) establishing appropriate systems to meet the information requirements for monitoring the
financial performance of PEs within DGIPE;
(b) establishing appropriate systems measuring PEs' performance against agreed targets;
(c) supervising staff within the PE Debt Management Department in carrying out the above
tasks.
Qualificatios:
4.     The Systems Development Manager will have:
(a) experience in the following areas: financial systems analysis, financial systems design and
implementation, financial systems maintenance.
(b) a working knowledge of financial and accounting procedures; and
(c) a minimum of 8 years' relevant work experience.



ANNEX B.5
Page 12 of 17
JOB TITLE: Director. Reform Program
Role:
1 .    TThe Director is responsible for is responsible for the design and successfil
accomplishment of the comprehensive PE reform program including the implementation of the
social safety net. To this end, the Directorate compriss the Reform Program Department and the
Department for Social Safety Net.
Reporting:
2.     The Director will report to the Chief Executive, DGIPE.
Responsiblities:
3.     The Director is responsible for:
(a) developing the strategic objectives and the policy of the Directorate of the Reform
Program;
(b) directing the managers, and appraising the operations of the Directorate's two
Departments;
(c) carrying out diagnostic studies that identify the nature, extent and impact of the reform
measures to be taken;
(d) determining the implementation strategy including action plans as well as the appropriate
instruments to be used;
(e) coordinadng the reform implementation action with:
(i) sector ministries and PE boards in respect of all PEs to be retained at any given
time; and
(ii) PRPC/ETU, with regard to PEs designated to enter the privatization/divestiture
process ("pipeline PEsa);
(f) developing and implementing plans for rationalizing GOK investments in enterprises in
which GOK holds a minority equity interest;
(g) in coordinating with the Attorney General's office, misting in reviewing and, if
necessary, modifying the regulatory and legal framework;
(h) designing and implementing systems for:
(i) the settlement of indebtedness and the adoption of measures to prevent its repeated
buildup;
(ii) ensuring PE financial discipline and operational autonomy;
(iii) reforming, where necessary, the financial and organizational structures of
majority-owned PEs to enable them to operate on a sound commercial basis;
(iv)  ensuring that the process of seection and appointment of persons to PE boards is
transparent, and providing logistical and other support to boards' selection and
appointment of persons to senior executive management positions under a similar
process;
(i) ensuring that the timing of reform measures is effected in a sequence that maximizes their
impact and effectiveness.
() implementing the social safety net, monitoring and evaluating its effectiveness.



ANNEX B.S
Page 13 of 17
Qualifications:
4.     The Director of the Reform Program will have:
(a) extensive professional experience, at senior management level, in the following areas:
parastatal restructuring and privatization, enterprise downsizing, financial management.
(b) a university degree; and have
(c) a minimum of 15 years' relevant work experience.



ANNEX B.5
Page 14 of 17
JOB TffLE: Manager: Reform Program
Role:
1.     The Manger of the Rldorm Program is responsible for the design and successful
accomplishment of the comprehensive PE reform program.
Reporting:
2.     The reform pror   Managa (RPM) will report to the Reform Program Director.
ResponslbiUtle:
3.     The RPM is respnible for:
(a) carrying out diagnostic sdies that identify the nature, extent and impact of the reform
measures to be taken;
(b) determining the implmnat_ion srategy, including action plans and the appropriate
instuments to be used;
(c) coordinat  the reform impl ttion action with sector ministries, respective PE
boards and with PRPC/ETU.
(d) developing and implementing plans for rationalising GOK investments in enterprises in
which GOK has a minority equity nterest;
(e) coordinan with the Attorney General's office, assisting in reviewing and, if necessary,
modifying the reulatry ad legal framework;
(t) designing and implementin systems for:
(i)  the settlemat of indebtednu and the adoption of measures to prevent its repeated
buildup;
(ii) reforming, where neceussary, the financial and organizational strucures of
majority-owned PEs to enable them to operate on a sound commecial basis;
(iii)  ensuring that the process of selection and appointment of persom to PE boards is
tanspent, and providing logistical and other support to Boards' sdection and
appointment of persons to senior management positions dhro  a similar process;
(g) ensuring that the timing of reform measures is effected so as to maximize their impact
and effectivenes.
Qualifications:
4.     The Reform Program Manager will have:
(a) extensive professional experience, at manageral level, in the following areas: designing
and implemaenin resrcftrerm  programs, financial mangement, developing
corporate strategy, the application of management information systems;
(b) have a minimum of 8 yeas' relevant work experience.



Page 15 of 17
JOB TITLE: Manger, Social Safety Net
(Terms of Reference to be provided when program is ready)



ANNEX B.S
Page 16 of 17
JOB T1TLE: Advisor to the Chief Executive, DGIPE
Duration:    24 months
Duty Station: Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises (DGIPE), Ministry
of Finance, Nairobi, Kenya
Working Relationships:
1.     The Advisor will report to the Chief Executive of DGIPE. The Advisor will also liaise
closely with PE Management, Line Ministries, the Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit
(ESTU) which is charged with divesting selected enterprises, and other bodies as appropriate to
assist in implementing reforms.
Overall Duties and Responsibilities:
2.     To provide assistance to the Chief Executive (DGIPE) in:
a) the design of a detailed phased action plan for PE reform. This will cover the reform of
strategic PEs retained long-term in government ownership, and also interim control of
around 160 PEs which are to be privatized in the medium term. The plan will be based
on the program agreed between DGIPE and the IDA, described in the Technical
Assistance Credit Staff Appraisal Report;
b) detailed design of monitoring systems to control project implementation;
c) production of regular 2-monthly implementation reports for joint submission to
government and the funding agency;
d) regular evaluation of the results of the PE reform program and, if necessary,
e) recommending amendments to the program.
3.     To supervise and coordinate other technical assistance inputs including the following
positions:
a) Manager - Reform Programs
b) Manager - Systems Development
c) Manager - Public Service PEs' Monitoring and Supervision
d) Manager - Social Safety Net
It should be noted that all these positions have direct reporting lines to relevant officers in
DGIPE, and some will be funded by different aid agencies. The Advisor's role is therefore
limited to coordination and overall supervision.
4.     To assist in drawing up or finalizing terms of reference for further work in areas such as
debt analysis, regulation, PE profiling; to prepare short-lists and draw up evaluation criteria for
bids; and evaluate bids.
5.     To assist in monitoring the work of consultants selected for such assignments.



ANNEX B.5
Page 17 of 17
6.     To advise the Chief Executive on suitable organizational and personnel procedures for the
expanded DGIPE, with particular attention to recruitment procedures and the use of contract staff.
Organizational procedures will include specification of the format and frequency of reports
required from each division in DGIPE.
7.     To guide the Chief Executive on the refinement and implementation of planned
institutional, legal and administrative policy reforms, and proposing any others required to
improve the performance of PEs which may arise during the course of the project.
8.     To advise on methods of enforcing the new policy of financial discipline, including
cessation of GOK loans and subsidies to PEs, or their conversion to market rates of interest, and
removal of government guarantees for PE loans.
9.     To assist in maximising coordination between the Ministry of Finance, the various line
Ministries, and the PEs concerned with the program, in particular, the 5 target PEs which have
been identified for major restructuring.
10.    To liaise with the Safety Net Advisor (also located initially in DGIPE) who will advise on
the structure of payments and other support initiatives for workers retrenched during the program.
Qualifications:
11.    The Advisor should have at least 10 years experience with the parastatal sector,
preferably working at senior level in a parastatal or a large private sector company. The Advisor
should be familiar with industrial policy issues, business planning, and commercial accounting.
Experience with privatisation programs would be an advantage.



DtPAATMENT o' GOVERNMeNT INVESTMENT AND PUBLIC ENTeRPRIIS: STAFF RESOURCING PPROGRAM
1 July 1992                1 September 1992             1 October 1992                1 Jaruary 1993               1 April 1993
FlFUACa           |       DfST U"UAGEfUT DEPT
OlRECTOItATE         ... f    futly r"Gwuced
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ .e.i un
......................                                    FIcAKA  CMTN   DEI
s 4crul tcnt               .........   .... .....          Fully r surced
......................
DIRECTORATE OF IE                      P.U. lC SE RVICES DEPT 1
MOZITORING * SLrEIVISIoN        |      IRcruitetnt       I...      ..O rector. *        ...  "nager PSD  .*  , .            Fully resourced   |
,---------------------                                      3 Desk Officers (P5D)
OO""RCIAL ENTEIP DEP
* . ......    ng r CED    .    ....    4 Desk Officers (CED)...   Fully rcseurc-d
SYSTEMS DfVT SEPT
*  .          1   nar System De .  1|   Fully resesrced
DIRECTORATE oV  PE                                                                                                     REFOI PROGRM DEPT
REFOrN                       IRtecruitment       ...... *.0irector.  ..... ..         anagr Refom Program ..       Fully resourced
--....................                                 I Desk Officer
SOCIAL SAFETY NET OEP
.... * Nanaer Sc Safety Net..             Fully reseurced
PERSONNEL & ADIIN             ......................         tSNWL I AD4IN DPEP
|  DEPARTMENT        . .*        R ecrult ont     |..       F  ty resGwced
......................



ANNEX B,7
DGWLE  PRD                   FOR 1929 - 1
Kah.'0009     ICA.*OO0     Ksh.9OO
LOCAL STAFF CO                          199293         1993/94     EU
Personnel
Chief Executive                           2,480         2,480        4,960
Directors                                 3,720         3,720         7,440
Managers                                    800           800         1,600
Professional Staff                        5,720         5,720        11,440
Support Staff                              211            211          422
TOTAL                                    12,931         12,931       25,862
j/ Local Staff cosS aume Chief Executive and Directr positions ar paid at coarat rats.



ANNEX B.8
DGIPE: Proposed Budget For 1992/93 - 1993/94
Technical Assstance Costs
US$,000      US$'000      USS'O0O
1992/93      1993/94      PERIOD
Long-term:   1) Manager - Reform                240          240            480
2) Manager - MIS                   240         240             480
3) Manager 0PS M&S                 240         240            480
4) Advisor to CE                   240         240             480
5) Safety Net Advisor              240         240            480
Short-term:   1) PE Debt Mgt. Dept.             lS0            0            ISO
1,350       1,200          2,550
L4ina Su
Computers, other equipment                      157            0            157
Vehicles                                         45            0             45
202           0            202
Tning
Six modules                                      35           35             70
35          35             70
Studies & T
Executive Database                               50            0             50
Subsidies/Financial Flows Study                 630            0            630
PE Profiles                                      155           0            155
PE Indebtedness                                 260            0            260
Performance Contracts & Corporate Planning      600          400          1,000
Authorities & Boards Studies                    850            0            850
Legal & Regulatory Study                        500                         500
3,045        400           3,445
TOTAL                                          4,632       1,635          6,267



ANNEX B.9
page 1 of 2
BASE DATA FOR MAJOR PEW
A. Criteria Underlying Selection of PEs
for Restructuring
Citeria           Kewa         KM,a       K1        NCPB I           Tea
oratalls      Er                             Develomnt
-                       ~~~~~~~~~Authority                 Authority
Importance to the          High         High       High     Medium       Medium
economy
Contribution to the budget    High      Low       High       Very         Low
deficit                                                      high
Probability of            Medium      Medium    Medium       Low          High
restructuring possible
without redundancies
Possibility of             High         High     Medium      Low          Low
rapidly involving
the private sector



ANNEX B.9
page 2 of 2
B. Main Financial Indicators for Major PEs
External Debt         Average for FY85-90            Grant &
(FY1990/91)        Sales  Profit  Net Worth          Subvention
(FY1991/92 est)
(US$ M)    (KSh M)   (KSh M)   (KSh M)
5 Target PEs
KPTC (Note 4)              260       6,000       799      2,334
Kenya Ports Authority      5-1        1,444       193     2,752
Kenya Railways              38        1,472     (169)     7,666
Kenya Tea Dev. Authority    23         n/a        n/a        n/a                I
National Cereals &
Produce Board         0        2.64Q     (556)       557               714
Total for 5 Target PEs    371       11,555       267     13,309               715
Other Major PEs
Kenya Airways              100        1,818     (265)     (515)
KPLC                        50       2,656       116       1,514
Kenya Power Co.             54         297       (46)       375
Tana River Dev. Authority    63        n/a        n/a        n/a               44
Tana River Dev. Co.         47         295      (181)     (279)
Nzoia Sugar Co.             24         253      (132)     (333)                16
Industrial Dev. Bank        47         148        (         170               125
Total for 5 Targets
& Majors                  756       17.022      (24X     14.241               900
Total for all PEs    964.940.071
Total for Majority-Owned PEs        28.737    (.JP       29.163
NOTES:  1.    Nzoia Sugar Subvention is made the Sugar Authority and may cover other
sugar factories.
2.    Industrial Devt. Bank subvention may cover other Development Finance
Institutions.
3.    Kenya Railways does not receive a regular subvention, but GOK assists with
servicing its external debt.
4.    KPTC figures are Corporation estimates for 1991/2, but exclude substantial
foreign exchange losses and bad debts that would give negative worth.



-
ANNE B. 10
page 1 of 3
BACKGROUND AND PLANS FOR RESTRUCTURIG INITIATIVES
1.    KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP. (KPTC). Despite relatively
strong technical and financial performance until 1986, a costly inve_nt program, combined with
poor financial management, have led the Corporation into a financial crisb. Immediate priorities are
to improve cash flow through drastically restricting expenditure and increasing revenue. Measures
including expenditure limits, a recruitment freeze, and a divestment progrum, ae now being taken
to achieve this. The Corporation plans to regain financial stability over a two year period. In the
medium term management must be streamlined, and private investment attracted through separating
out postal and telecommunications operations.
2.    An external consultants' strategic and organizational review of KPITC recommends a number
of short-term operational measures; significant organizational chnges; and further action to define
a medium term corporate strategy. This is likely to involve divestiure of a number of non-core
activities. Further work is required to define in detail the technical assistance necessary to underpin
the separation of posts from telecoms. This will include a review of the modalities of the separation;
preparation of restructuring plans for both entities; a network appraisl for telecoms; sector policy
and regulation studies in both areas; an asset revaluation; and a full review of accounting practices.
Most of this work will be completed during 1993, generating targets for the 1993/4 period. It was
agreed that work plans for this work should focus on (a) GOK policy decision to separate Posts
and Telecoms, and TOR (to be agreed between DGIPE and IPTC) for a group of senior
officials and consultants to commence work on the modalties to addee this separation; and (b)
implementation of the recommendations of the Maxwell Stamp study including those on internal
reorganization of XPTC and on divestiture of Gilgil manufacturng hulltiae.
3.    KENYA RAILWAYS. Kenya Railways (KR) was, until the early 1980's, the primary freight
transport mode for longer distance traffic in Kenya. KR's market shar and financial situation
deteriorated very significantly during the mid 1980's and a process of retucturing was commenced
through the Short Term Action Plan (STAP) which has been supported by IDA and ODA. The
STAP was designed to improve both operating and financial performance and to orientate KR toward
a commercial business approach. Central to this restructuring Is the Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) which was signed in (YEAR) by KR, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport
and Communications. The MOU provided KR with autonomy to act commercially but Government
retained the right to require KR to act non-commercially, subject to the payment of appropriate
compensation.
4.    The STAP has achieved some success but in some fundamental respects the performance of
KR has showed little improvement. Though the MOU establishes the principle of Government
compensation for non-commercial activities, it has only been applied to a very limited extent. KR



ANNEX B. 10
page 2 of 3
has very considerable potential as a freight mover but the process of restructuring must be extended
and deepened if this potential is to be realized and KR adapted to the present financial and transport
environments. To compete effectively and recapture profitable traffics KR must streamline services,
reduce staffing levels and overheads, improve locomotive availability, and separation of the
commercially viable services from the non-viable but socially required activities. KR, through
development of its Corporate Plan, is working toward these objectives. It was agreed that work
plans covering these actions will include (a) (in accordance with the existing Memorandum of
Understanding) suspension of all loss-making services or the installation and operation of a
system through which GOK will continually compensate KR for the cost of providing these loss-
making services, for as long as GOK directs that they be continued; lb) completion by KR of
a plan for a fully commercial railway system for Kenya; and (c) completion of TOR for and
commissioning of an assessment of the technical and financial desirability of alternative
arrangements for locomotive maintenance.
5.    KENYA PORTS AUTHORITY (KPA). The Kenya Ports Authority operates the Port of
Mombasa, some local port facilities, the inland container depot (ICD) at Nairobi and is developing
additional ICDs at Kisumu and Eldoret. Mombasa has an effective monopoly of Kenyan sea-borne
trade and considerable economic power over the transit traffic of the landlocked countries in the
region.  Overall traffic, through the port, has been fairly static during recent years but
containerization has resulted in major changes in port activities. KPA is profitable but port tariffs
are high, the level of service inadequate and productivity poor by international standards. A Port
Improvement Program (PIP) has, with assistance from ODA, reduced some of the most critical
bottlenecks but much more radical changes are necessary if Mombasa is to provide the level of
services needed to support Kenya's export oriented economic policies.
6.    Preliminary work for restructuring KPA is underway with a number of studies commissioned
under PPF funding for the proposed Transport Corridor Project. Overall restructuring of KPA was
not contemplated when the terms of reference for these studies were agreed. Consequently, the
overall organization, management and delivery of port and ICD services, including regulation of
monopoly powers, must be intensively analyzed in light of the principles embodied in the policy
paper (Annex B. 1) before a restructuring strategy can be devised. Once the objectives and direction
of restructuring are determined additional work will be required to determine and implement the
precise actions necessary.
7.    KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (KTDA). KTDA has operated relatively
successfully since the mid 1960's as a public enterprise working closely with private sector tea
growers and investors to increase Kenya's tea output. Current investors in the Corporation's 38 tea
factories include the Commonwealth Development Corporation and the European Investment Bank.
The Authority is self sufficient, deriving revenue both from a levy on tea production, and
management fees for the factories. Relatively little study has been made of the sector, excepting a
Goverrnment Report in 1990, instigated at the request of the tea growers, which found considerable
mismanagement and misappropriation of funds.



ANNEX B. 1
page 3 of 3
8.    Institutional arrangements in the sector are unusual, with limited explicit government
involvement, but strong government control of appointments and financial arrangements, including
a minority "golden shares" in the tea factories. What is required is (i) a detailed evaluation of
available options including rejuvenation or privatization of KTDA; and (ii) follow-up action !ither
to produce and implement a medium term business plan or to effect divestiture. It was agreed that
the work plans covering this work would include KTDA would agree with DGIPE on TOR for
a sector review and strategic plan for KTDA, with target start and completion dates, and the
preparation of such a plan.
9.    NATIONAL CEREALS AND PRODUCE BOARD (NCPB). The NCPB has formed the
backbone of Kenya's system of intervening in the white maize market to establish food security since
Independence. The current system has however become progressively more expensive (NCPB
currently accounts for almost 50% of government subventions to parastatals) and has led to the
introduction of various distortions in the marketing system. Under the Cereals Sector Reform
Program the role of the NCPB will be confined to securing the Government's objectives of market
stabilization and maintenance of the strategic reserve. Restrictions on private sector activity will be
progressively removed.
10.   In 1990 NCPB and Government (Ministry of Finance/Ministry of Supplies and Marketing)
signed a performance contract for the period 1990/1, which has had only limited success and was not
properly monitored. A new contract, extending to 1993/4, has recently been signed, although World
Bank staff have reservations over some of the detailed targets this contains which include specific
budgetary, operational, and staff reduction objectives.
11.   Given the considerable volume of technical assistance already deployed inside NCPB (largely
EC-funded), further sector or strategy studies are not required. DGIPE would nevertheless benefit
from an independent evaluation of the earlier contract, to discover why targets were not met, and use
findings to monitor and implement the new contract more effectively. It was agreed that the work
plans covering this work would include DGIPE's commissioning of an independent review of the
1990-91 performance contract to establish how effectively this was implemented and to identify
lessons learned. The review will pay particular attention to the monitoring process and to how far
all parties met their obligations. It will also examine the mechanisms proposed for implementing the
new 1991/2 - 1993/4 performance contract and recommend any specific improvements necessary.



ANNEX B.I1
page 1 of 19
D?raft Terms ofRernc
a. NATIONAL CEREA1S AND PRODUCE BOARD (NCPB)
Draft Terms of Reference
I.    INTRODUCTON AND OVERVIEW:
NCPB is one of the five straegic public enterprises selected for reform in the current phae of
a comprehensive patatat rdeom programme being undertaken by the Govermment with the support of
IDA and other donor. NCPB currntly provides the following essential services to Government:
(i)    maintaining de food reseve stock; and
(ii)   marketg of grins. Consequently it is classified as a strategic parastatal to be retained
by the Govmet.
In recnt yas th Govenmen has gradually enhanced the role of the private sector in grain
markei. Maize movemet in the country has been liberalised and NCPB's share in the primary and
secondary markets ha bee reduced. It is envisaged that NCPB's future role would be limited to
managing the food remwv stock and to narrowly defined price stabilization activities. Ihe restructuning
of NCPB is therefore being undertaken with the following objectives:
(a)   to nhanc peomance and efficiency;
(b)   to reduce curnt/fture financing burden on Government Budget; and
(c)   to esblish accountability and transparency in relations between the Government and
NCPB.
The Government is using a Performance Contract (PC) as a tool to improve NCPB's efficiency.
The 1992/93 PC, which is expected to be signed before June 30, 1992 will clearly define NCPB's revised
role in maize markeing in the counry. Other than maize, NCPB would only be mandated to deal with
wheat and no othe crops. The Government is also considering liberalising wheat marketing, and
removing NCPB's mndat to dal in wheat.
Ihe following genral piciples will apply to the restructuring of NCPB (and to all strategic
public enterprises):
(a)    Promote finacial discipline through hard budget constraint.
(b)    All non-commercial atvities (i.e. in maize and wheat) imposed by the Government to
be reimbursed on contract basis.



ANNEX B.I1
page 2 of 19
(c)    Monopoly public services to be regulated by an independent regulatory body. All
regulatory functions to be hived off from NCPB.
(d)    Promote break-up of monopoly and elimination of barriers to private entry (already done
for maize but needs to be done for wheat).
(e)    Provide a 'level playing field" for private enterprises and NCPB through elimination of
legal and regulatory preferential treatment of NCPB, if any.
(f)    Separate Government ownership functions from management: the Government would set
objectives, NCPB would be given the autonomy to achieve them; Government evaluates
performance under a performance contract.  Currently NCPB operates under a
performance contract beginning in the 1991-1992 fiscal year.
II.    OBJECTIVE  OF THE CONSULTANCY;
The proposed consultancy has two main objectives:
(i)    An independent review of the 1990/91 and the 1991192 Performance Contracts to
establish how effectively these were implemented and describe lessons learned;
(ii)   Examine the mechanisms proposed for implementing the 1992/93 - 1994/95 performance
contract, and recommend any improvements necessary in light of NCPB's revised role
and the six principles of reform stated above.
(iii)   Propose options for restructuring NCPB in light of its revised role in grain marketing in
Kenya.
III.   ORGANIZATION OF THE CONSULTANCY:
The intention of the independent overview is to assist the Government, as the owner, in
determining its aims and objectives for restructuring NCPB, and to help establish the programme
necessary for the restructuring process. The overview ill assess the intrinsic potential of NCPB to meet
the agreed objectives and present the options available for achieving that potential. The overview will
thus provide a brief assessment of what the Government could reasonably expect NCPB to achieve in
terms of the size and quality of services provided, the cost of service provision, and financial operating
results given its role in maize and wheat marketing in Kenya. This assessment would be based partly on
past performance and trends. The consultants would be required, therefore to present to the Government,
restructuring options and their implications for management, staffing size, and infrastructure needs. The
consultant will develop a programme and targets proposed and the actions and assistance that will be
required to meet the objectives of the restructuring plan as agreed between the Government and NCPB.
The examination of the mechanisms proposed for implementing the performance contract for the
period 1992/93 and 1994/95 will take into account the proposed restructuring plan, i.e. the mechanisms
proposed for implementing the performance contract will take into account:



ANNEX B.1
page 3 of 19
(a)   the lessom  lea    from a review of the 1990/91 and the 1991/92 Performance Contract
and efeivenes of their impl ation, and
(b)   the consitency with the implemention of die restucuring plan.
IV.  CONSUTTSEQAIi
Ihe consultat will provide a technical expet in the sector and support such expertise with a team
of experts in public enterprise retuctuing. Hands-on exprience in executing a consulting assignment
with similar scope of work is required.
V.    REPRTIN
The consultant will regularly brief the Investment Secretary, Department of Government
Investments and Public Enteprise (DGIPE) on progress, submit the final draft report by July 31, 1992
and the final report by August 13, 1992.



ANNEX B. U
page 4 of 19
b. KENYA PORTS AUTHORrTY (KPA)
Draft Terms of Reference
I.    Introduction and Overview
1.    KPA is one of the five strategic public enterprises selected for reform under the current phase
of a comprehensive parastatal reform programme being undertaken by the Government of Kenya with
support from IDA and other donors. KPA currently provides the essential services at the Mombasa Port
and Inland Container Depots (ICDS), and is classified as a strategic parastatal to be retained by the
Government. Reform of KPA, as well as other strategic public enterprises, is being considered by the
Government with the following objectives:
(a)    To enhance performance and efficiency;
(b)    To enhance KPA's contribution to government revenues and the Kenyan economy;
(c)    To establish accountability and transparency in relations between the Government and
KPA and have KPA operate on commercial principles.
2.    The following general principles will apply to reform of all strategic public enterprises, including
.PA:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include only viable commercial activities except for certain
cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than commercial
reasons. However, such activities will only be retained on a separate operational and
accounting basis and with contractual arrangements giving the PE full compensation for
the activity through transparent budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include
regulatory functions related to other than public services, they will be separated and
either eliminated or assigned to different, non-PE entities.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that will
oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies will be
phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as mentioned under (a)
above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to market
pricing wherever competition is possible. This goal will be promoted through the
breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination of barriers to private
entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these aims, their managements will be
provided with the maximum autonomy over key operational variables (such as prices,
procurement, wage and salary levels) that is compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with private



ANNEX B. I1
page 5 of 19
entides of this  ne, be regulated a noedd to protect the public interest, primarily
througb review and aproval of tariffs, mainem e and replenishment of all kinds of
capital resources, and cost containment. Such regulation will be implemented through
autonomous, specislized bodie opeaUtg independently from the government line
structre, thu inswAti  tem from political inefence.
(e)   It is the funton of the le d  regul     framework to pmvide a 'level playing field",
i.e. facilitate an quiable and fair basis for th eficiet functoning of both private and
public secto enterpis  under conetiive and froely maret-based conditions, and to
provide protection to conumes when necosry. With this aim, the legal framework
applicable to thb private secor, including, iter alia, the Companies Act, will be made
equally applicable to PEl.
(t)    GOK's ownership  uncions over majority-owned PEs include the same rights and
responsibilites a the    ogWu fimctions in dte privae sector. In its ownership role
GOK will thus  ) sdect ad appoint compett ad qualified persons to PE boards
according to a widely publicized and transparent process; Cii) provide PE managements
with clear, non-conflicdn objecdves; (iii) agree with managements on the strategy and
corporate Intuments _refleng it; (iv) leave managements as free as needed to achieve
the objocdves; (v) oblige       t o fil and transparent accountability; and to this
purpose (vi) pefom u-Post envauato  of mangement perormance and apply such
incentives and sancion a e merited by tht prformance. All of these principles are
incompatble with political bntfree in FE magent matters.
(g)    All aspec  of PE buine  wil be performed in a commercial and transparent manner.
The fact of being a FE will not cotiute an acceptable reason for directly or indirectly
according favorable treatm    to PEa, e.g. through exemption from taxes or fiscal
charges and preernti accoss to imported and domestic inputs.
3.    A detailed study of [PA's operatios is currenty being undertaken as part of the Transport
Corridor Project and an ongoing Tchnical Assistance Project. The intention of this independent review
is to assist the Government of Ken    ower, in ealishing the aims and objectives for KPA to
determine future restructg.  Any restring of a large and complex operation such as port
management services, is a long ad involved proces. Recognizing the complexities of such a process
the Government has agreed with IDA to develop an oudine resuctuing plan applying the six principles
stated above.
II.    Objectves f
4.    The objectives of the study are t doveop an oudine restructuring plan based on an evaluation
of:
(i)    whae the erpn _zatin is (curret stats  of the organiztion in terms of activities,
operaons, physical and finaci strucre, performance, management, market strengths,
budgetary upport, involvement in non-commorcial activities, competition, vision, etc.);



ANNEX B. 11
page 6 of 19
(ii)    where the organrzton could ge to in two to five years if it adopted the six principlt
outlined in 2. a-f above (in terms of the same criteria mentioned in (i) above);
(iii)   opdon. avlable to get there (through rationalization, restructuring, divestiture, and
appropriate changes in Government policy, etc.) including time-bound actions; and
(iv)   TA assistace needs for next two years to move organization in desired direction.
Note: It is understood that some of the actions defined above under (iii) and (iv) may need to
be initiated by the Government rather than KPA.
5.    In addition, for KPA, the consultants should aim:
(i)    To identify the range of delivery options for various services provided by KPA; and
(ii)   To assess the tariff policy and possible approaches to independent tariff regulations.
m.   S=e ofthe SU&
6.    The overview will provide a brief asesment of what the Government could reasonably expect
KPA to achieve in terms of the size and quality of services, the cost of services provision and financial
operating results, when managed according to the six principles stated above. This assessment would be
based partly on past performance and trends within Kenya but would also take into account performance
achieved elsewhere.
7.    The strategic parastatal will remain within government ownership but such ownership is
compatible with many different arrangements for management and service delivery. Historically, Kenya
has followed one pattern of organization and management but others are employed elsewhere and these
could offer distinct advantages. The consultants would be required, therefore, to present to the
Government the range of delivery options available including the involvement of the private sector in the
provision of port services, together with an assessment of their performance elsewhere, their applicability
to Kenyan conditions, and their implications for ownership, control and management. Within the port
sector, government ownership could be compatible with leasing a container freight station to a private
company for management, leasing of berths shipping lines/private operators; use of private stevedoring
companies, management contract for maintenance of handling equipment etc.
8.    The consultants will develop consistent strategic restructuring options for consideration by
Government on the basis of the previous analysis. For each option, the need and extent of financial
restructuring required would be asseed.
9.    The consultant action plans and targets proposed together with estimates of Technical Assistance
that will be required to meet the objectives of the restructuring plan, as agreed between the Government
and KPA.
10.   The consultants will asses KPA's tariff policies and make recommendations for an independent
regulatory body to determine future tariffs.



ANNEX B. 11
page 7 of 19
IV.   Consultant's Personnel
11.   The consultant will provide adequate personnel to make available technical sector expertise, and
proficiency in preparing utility public enterprises for reform and privatization. Hands-on experience in
executing a previous consulting assignment with similar scope of work is essential.
V.    ReDrtn
12.   The consultants would provide regular progress reports during meetings with Investment
Secretary, DGIPE. A draft final report will be provided by August 15, 1992 and a final report by August
31, 1992. Copies of the draft and final reports will be sent simultaneously to IDA. The format for the
report will be agreed beforehand with the Government to ensure consistency with reports on parallel
studies on other PEs.



ANNEX B. 11
page 8 of 19
c. KENYA RAILWAYS (KR)
Draft Terms of Reference
I.    Introduction and Overview
1.    Kenya Railways is one of the five strategic public enterprises selected for reform under the
current phase of a comprehensive parastatal reform programme being undertaken by the Government of
Kenya with support from IDA and other donors. KR provides rail freight and passenger services and is
classified as a strategic parastatal of which core functions need to be retained. The reform is being
undertaken with the following broad objectives:
(a)    To enhance performance and efficiency;
(b)    To reduce the current/future financing burden on Government budget;
(c)    To establish autonomy and accountability in relations between the Government and KR,
and have KR operate on commercial principles.
2.    The following general principles will apply to reform of all strategic public enterprises including
Kenya Railways:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include only viable commercial activities except for certain
cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than commercial
reasons. However, such activities will only be retained on a separate operational and
accounting basis and with contractual arrangements giving the PE full compensation for
the activity through transparent budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include
regulatory functions related to other than public services, they will be separated and
either eliminated or assigned to different, non-PE entities.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that will
oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies will be
phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as mentioned under (a)
above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to market
pricing wherever competition is possible. This goal will be promoted through the
breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination of barriers to private
entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these aims, their managements will be
provided with the maximum autonomy over key operational variables (such as prices,
procurement, wage and salary levels) that is compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with private
entities of this nature, be regulated as needed to protect the public interest, primarily



ANNEX B.11
page 9 of 19
through review and approval of tariffs, mainance and replenishment of all kinds of
capital resources, and cost containment. Such regulation will be implemented through
autonomous, specialized bodies operating independently from the govermnent line
structure, thus insulating them from political interference.
(e)   It is the function of the legal and regulatory framework to provide a 'level playing field",
i.e. facilitate an equitable and fair basis for the efficieot functioning of both private and
public sector enterprises under competitive and fredy market-based conditions, and to
provide protection to consumers when necessary. With this aim, the legal framework
applicable to the private sector, including, Inte alia, the Companies Act, will be made
equally applicable to PEs.
(f)    GOK's ownership functions over majority-owned PEs include the same rights and
responsibflities as the analogous fiuntions in the private sector. In its ownership role
GOK will thus (i) sdect and appoint competent and qualified persons to PE boards
according to a widely publicized and transparent process; (ii) provide PE managements
with clear, non-conflicting objectives; (iii) agree with m ements on the strategy and
corporate instruments reflecting it; (iv) leave manaements as free as needed to achieve
the objectives; (v) oblige mangements to full nd trnp t accountability; and to this
purpose (vi) perform ex-post evaluations of manaem    performance and apply such
incentives and sanctions as are merited by that performance. All of these principles are
incompatible with political interference in PE management matters.
(g)    All aspects of PE business will be performed in a commercial and transparent manner.
The fact of being a PE will not constitute an acceptable reason for directly or indirectly
according favorable treatment to PEs, e.g. throug exemption from taxes or fiscal
charges and preferential access to imported and domesdc inputs.
3.    Several studies of KR have been undertaken for KR in the past and KR currently operates under
a 'Memorandum of Understanding." Any restucturing of a large utility operation is a long and complex
process. Recognizing the complexities of such a restructring operation, the Government has agreed with
IDA to develop an outline of the restructuring plan applying the six principles enunciated above.
II.    Objectives of the Consultancy
4.    The objectives of the study are to develop an outline restructuring plan based on an evaluation
of:
(i)    where th  organizatio  Is (current stat  of the organiation in terms of activities,
operations, physical and financial structure, peformance, management, market strengths,
budgetary support, involvement in non-commerci activities, competition, vision, etc.);
(ii)    where the organitIon could get to in two to five years if it adopted the six principles
outlined in 2. a-f above (in terms of the same citeria menined in (i) above);
(iii) options available to get thee (through rationalization, restructuring, divestiture, and



ANNEX B. I11
page 10 of 19
appropriate changes in Governnmnt policy, etc.) including time-bound actions; and
(iv)   TA assistance need for next two yean to move organization in desired direction.
Note: It is understood that some of the actions defined above under (iii) and (iv) may need to
be initiated by the Government rather than KR.
5.    In addition, for KR, the consultant should aim to:
(i)    Define a fully commercial railway system for Kenya;
(ii)   Identify additional technical usistance to achieve the reuctring options agreed between
GOK and KR.
m.    Scope of the Study
6.    The intention of this independent overview is to assist the Government of Kenya, as owner, in
determining its aims and objectives for restructurng of Railway Sevices, and help establish a programme
for the restructuring process. The overview will provide a brief assesment of what the Government
could reasonably expect KR to achieve in terms of the size and quality of services provided, the costs of
providing services and financial operating results. Tbis assesment would be based partly on past
performance and trends within Kenya but more importuatly on intenational norms and experience. The
measures employed would include: cost/revenue/profit per traffic unit, staff/asset value per traffic unit,
delivery time, market share, equipment availability, etc.
7.    A review of the operations of KR in light of the six basic principles and preparation of a scenario
for a fully commercial operation from which to identify and cost non-commercial activities.
8.    The KR will remain within government ownership but such ownership is compatible with many
different arrangements for management and service delivery. Historically, Kenya has followed one
pattern of organization and management but others ar employed elsewhere and these could offer distinct
advantages. The consultant would be required, therefore, to presnt to Government the range of delivery
options available together with an assessment of their performance elsewhere , their applicability to
Kenyan conditions, and their implications for ownership, control and management.
9.    Prepare restructuring options for government review, providing a full assessment for each option
of the relative costs and benefits as well as likelihood of a successful implementation.
10.   The restructuring option developed by the consultant, will propose the programmes, actions
planned and targets; and assistance that will be required to implement the plans to meet the objectives
of the restructuring as agreed between the government. For each option the need and extent of financial
restructuring will be identified.



ANNEX B. 11L
page 11 of 19
IV.   Consultant's Personnel
11.   The consultant will provide adequate personnel to make available technical sector specific
expertise,  and  proficiency  in  preparing  utility  public  enterprises  for  reform   and
privatization/commercialization. Hands-on experience in executing a consulting assignment with similar
scope of work is essential.
12.   The consultants would provide regular progrers reports during meetings with Investment
Secretary, DGIPE. A draft final report will be provided by August 15, 1992 and a final report by August
31, 1992. Copies of the draft and final reports will be sent simultaneously to IDA. The format for the
report will be agreed beforehand with the Government to ensure consistency with reports on parallel
studies on other PEs.



ANNEX B.11
page 12 of 19
d. KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Draft Terms of Reference
I.    Introduction and Overview
1.    KPTC is one of the five strategic public enterprises selected for reform under the current phase
of a comprehensive parastatal reform programme being undertaken by the Government of Kenya with
support from IDA and other donors. KPTC currently provides the essential post and telecommunication
services and is classified as a strategic parastatal to be retained by the Government. Reform of KPTC,
as well as other strategic public enterprises, is being considered by the Government with the following
objectives:
(a)    To enhance performance and efficiency;
(b)    To enhance KPTC's contribution to government revenues and the Kenyan economy;
(c)    To establish accountability and transparency in relations between the Government and
KPTC and have KPTC operate on commercial principles.
2.    The following general principles will apply to reform of all strategic public enterprises, including
KPTC:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include only viable commercial activities except for certain
cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than commercial
reasons. However, such activities will only be retained on a separate operational and
accounting basis and with contractual arrangements giving the PE full compensation for
the activity through transparent budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include
regulatory functions related to other than public services, they will be separated and
either eliminated or assigned to different, non-PE entities.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that wUI
oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies will be
phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as mentioned under (a)
above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to market
pricing wherever competition is possible. This goal will be promoted through the
breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination of barriers to private
entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these aims, their managements will be
provided with the maximum autonomy over key operational variables (such as prices,
procurement, wage and salary levels) that is compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with private



ANNEX B. I 
page 13 of 19
entities of this nature, be regulated as needed to protect the public interest, primarily
through review and approval of tariffs, maintenance and replenishment of all kinds of
capital resources, and cost containment. Such regulation will be implemented through
autonomous, specialized bodies operating independently from the government line
structure, thus insulating them from political interference.
(e)   It is the function of the legal and regulatory framework to provide a "level playing field",
i.e. facilitate an equitable and fair basis for the efficient functioning of both private and
public sector enterprises under competitive and freely market-based conditions, and to
provide protection to consumers when necessary. With this aim, the legal framework
applicable to the private sector, including, inter alla, the Companies Act, will be made
equally applicable to PEs.
(f)    GOK's ownership functions over majority-owned PEs include the same rights and
responsibilities as the analogous functions in the private sector. In its ownership role
GOK will thus (i) select and appoint competent and qualified persons to PE boards
according to a widely publicized and transparent process; (ii) provide PE managements
with clear, non-conflicting objectives; (iii) agree with managements on the strategy and
corporate instruments reflecting it; (iv) leave managements as free as needed to achieve
the objectives; (v) oblige managements to full and transparent accountability; and to this
purpose (vi) perform ex-post evaluations of management performance and apply such
incentives and sanctions as are merited by that performance. All of these principles are
incompatible with political interference in PE management matters.
(g)    All aspects of PE business will be performed in a commercial and transparent manner.
T-he fact of being a PE will not constitute an acceptable reason for directly or indirectly
according favorable treatment to PEs, e.g. through exemption from taxes or fiscal
charges and preferential access to imported and domestic inputs.
3.    A detailed study of KPTC's operations is currently being undertaken by Maxwell Stamp
Consultants. The intention of this review is to assist the Government of Kenya, as owner, in establishing
the aims and objectives for KPTC to determine future restructuring. Any restructuring of a large and
complex operation such as port management services, is a long and involved process. Recognizing the
complexities of such a process the Government has agreed with IDA to develop an outline restructuring
plan applying the six principles stated above.
II.    Objectives of the Consultancy
4.    The objectives of the study are to develop an outline restructuring plan based on an evaluation
of:
(i)    where the orgaiization is (current status of the organization in terms of activities,
operations, physical and financial structure, performance, management, market strengths,
budgetary support, involvement in non-commercial activities, competition, vision, etc.);
(ii)    where the organization could get to in two to five years if it adopted the six principles



page 14 of 19
outlined in 2. a-f above (in terms of the same criteia meeioned in (i) above);
(iii)   options available to get there (through radomalizalon, retctuaing, divestiture, a1
appropriate changes in Government policy, etc.) Including timebound acions; and
(iv)   TA assistance needs for next two yes to move organization in desired direction.
Note: It is understood that some of the actions dee abov under (iii) and (v) may need to
be initiated by the Government rather than KPXTC.
m.    Scope of the Study
6.    The overview will provide a brief assessment of what the Governomt could reasonably expect
KPTC to achieve in terms of the size and quality of services, the cost of services provision and financial
operating results, when managed according to the six principl state above. lbis assesment would be
based partly on past performance and trends within Kenya but woud so take into account performance
achieved elsewhere. The study will, to the extent possible, make fill use of the recommendations of the
ongoing consultancy services.
7.    The strategic parastatal will remain within governnmont ownership but such ownership is
compatible with many different arrangements for mana ent mand service delivery. Historically, Kenya
has followed one pattern of organization and manaement but others are employed elsewhere and these
could offer distinct advantages. The consultants would be required, thrfore, to present to the
Government the range of delivery options available including the involvement of the private sctor in the
provision of post and telecommunication services, together with an asesment of their performance
elsewhere, their applicability to Kenyan conditions, ad thedr Imication for ownership, control and
management. Within the posts and telecommunicaon soctor, private participation could be considered
in provision of: subscribers terminal equipment, mobilo ncmIca, tions, value added services, etc.
8.    The consultants will develop consistent staegic restuctring plans for consideration by
Government on the basis of the previous analysis.
9.    The consultant will propose action plans and targets together with estimates of Technical
Assistance that will be required to meet the objectives of the rerucurwing plan.
IV.   Consultant's Personnel
10.   The consultant will provide adequate personnel to make available technical sector expertise, and
proficiency in preparing utility public enterprises for reform ad privatizaton. Hands-on experience in
executing a previous consulting assignment with similar scope of work is essential.



AN= 11-1
page 15 of 19
V.  R91bg
11.   The consultants would provide regular progress reports during meedngs with Investment
Secretary, DGIPE. A draft final report will be provided by August 15, 1992 and a final report by August
31, 1992. Copies of the draft and final reports will be sent simultaneously to IDA. The format for the
report will be agreed beforehand with the Government to ensure consistency with reports on parallel
studies on other PEs.



ANNEX B. 11
page 16 of 19
e. KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORrTY (KDA)
Draft Terms of Reference
I.    INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
1.    KTDA is one of the five strategic public enterprises selected for reform under the current phase
of a comprehensive parastatal reform programme being undertaken by the Government of Kenya with
support from IDA and other donors. KTDA currently operates in an unclear legal environment, i.e.
while KTDA is not owned by the Government, it is managed and controlled by the Government. KTDA
provides some essential services in the Tea sector and is classified as a strategic parastatal of which core
functions need to be retained. The reform is being undertaken with the following broad objectives:
(a)    To enhance performance and efficiency;
(b)    To reduce current/future financing burden on government budget; and
(c)    To establish autonomy and accountability in relations between the Government and
KTDA, and have KTDA operate on commercial principles.
2.    The following general principles will apply to reform of all strategic public enterprises, including
KTDA:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include only viable commercial activities except for certain
cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than commercial
reasons. However, such activities will only be retained on a separate operational and
accounting basis and with contractual arrangements giving the PE full compensation for
the activity through transparent budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include
regulatory functions related to other than public services, they will be separated and
either eliminated or assigned to different, non-PE entities.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that will
oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies will be
phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as mentioned under (a)
above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to market
pricing wherever competition is possible. This goal will be promoted through the
breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination of barriers to private
entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these aims, their managements will be
provided with the maximum autonomy over key operational variables (such as prices,
procurement, wage and salary levels) that is compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with private
entities of this nature, be regulated as needed to protect the public interest, primarily
through review and approval of tariffs, maintenance and replenishment of all kinds of



ANNEX B. 1I
page 17 of 19
capital rs    , nd cost ontainnt. Such regulation will be implemented through
autoommsow, speClaized bodis operating independently from the government line
slructure, thus h ating dhe  from political interference.
(a)   It iathe fX cto, of dte lga and rguatory framework to provide a  level playing field",
i.e. falita  n equiabe wud fir basis for the efficient functioning of both private and
public setor edepriss nder competitive and freely market-based conditions, and to
provide protcioa lo co0_eA  whe necesary. With this aim, the legal framework
alicable to th priv  sectr, including, beer alla, the Companies Act, will be made
equally applicable to Phs.
(f)    GOK's ownership amcdos over majoiy-owned PEs include the same rights and
reonsIbiltIesX  a te  alogos fctions in the private sector. In its ownership role
GOK will  us (I)  lect  d appoiWt competent and qualified persons to PE boards
according to a widely pubicized and trasparent process; (ii) provide PE managements
with clear, non-coufllcdl objecidvs; (Mii) agre with managements on the strategy and
corporate hntrume.t reflec_ig it; (fv) leave managements as free as needed to achieve
the objoctives; (v) oblg manaen to fAidl and transparent accountability; and to this
purpow (vi) perom ex-poet evaluatom of management performance and apply such
incentives and sancton as ar merited by that performance. All of these principles are
incompate with polktca Iterfrence In PE management matters.
(g)    All aspet of PE business wil be performed in a commercial and transparent manner.
The fact of bWng a PE wIN nt cotituto an acceptable reason for directly or indirectly
according avorble trm    to PEs, e.g. through exemption from taxes or fiscal
charge ad preferesi alce  lo Impord  and domestic inputs.
3.    Recogizing the complexie of a restrucur  programme, the Government has agreed with IDA
to develop an outline of the resrcpbt pla for KMA tking account of the six principles stated above.
H.    ODJ&TI        .OFlTE CNSLTANY
4.     bhe objectives of the study are to develop an outline restructuring plan based on an evaluation
of:
(i)    where Me irauumde. k (cumnt status of the organization in terms of activities,
operations, pbyicl  d fiacW  structure, performance, management, market strengths,
budgetary spport, Invlveme  In non-commercial activities, competition, vision, etc.);
(Hi)    where fte rgai    m lato in two to five years  if it adopted the six principles
outlined in 2. a-f bv   ( tern  of the same criteria mentioned in (i) above);
(iii)   opti. avalbble to gere (tougb rationalization, restructuring, divestiture, and
Wapopria changes In Govenment policy, etc.) including time-bound actions; and
(iv)   TA ae    fr at two year to move organization in desired direction.



ANNEX B. 11
page 18 of 19
Note: It is understood that some of the actions defined above under (iii) and (iv) may need to
be initiated by the Government rather than KTDA.
5.    In addition, for KTDA, the consultants should aim to:
(i)    Clearly define the future role of KTDA in the tea sector;
(ii)   Determine the relationship between the Government and KTDA in light of the redefined
role to eliminate the present ambiguities int his relationship; and
(iii)   To the extent that KTDA does not fit legally and operationally into the category of a PE,
assess the extent to which KTDA operations should deviate from the six principles
outlined above.
m.   SCOPE OF WORK:
6.    The purpose of the consultancy is to assist the management of KTDA and Department of
Government Investments and Public Enterprises (DGIPE). in determining the aims and objectives for the
restructuring of KTDA and to help establish the programme necessary for restructuring process. This
overview is not intended to provide DGIPE with a detailed blue print for restructuring but to assess
intrinsic potential of KTDA to service the tea sector and present the options available for achieving that
potential.
7.    The key questions to be addressed concern: (i) ownership, (ii) accountability, and (iii)
management of KTDA. In this context, the consultant should also review the performance and scope of
Nyayo Tea Zone Development Authority and explore options for integrating it with KTDA.
8.    The overview would provide a brief assessment of what DGIPE could reasonably expect KTDA
to achieve in terms of the size and quality of services provided, the cost of services provision, and
financial operating results. This assessment would be based partly on past performance and trends within
Kenya but more importantly on performance in comparable countries and on international norms and
experience. The services performed by KTDA may be delivered by different delivery options. For
example, (i) growers have full ownership of factories, and factories plus Govermnent jointly over KTDA,
or (ii) KTDA owns factories, but KTDA owned by growers and Govermnent in some predefined
proportion. The consultants would be required, therefore, to present to Government the range of delivery
options available together with an assessment of their performance elsewhere, their applicability to
Kenyan conditions and their implications for ownership, control and management. The consultant will
provide advice to the Government regarding the programmes and targets proposed and the actions and
assistance that will be required to meet the objectives of the restructuring plans agreed between the
Government, KTDA an the consultant.
9.    The consultancy will also review and define future government role in the sector consistent with
the new economic strategy and public enterprise reform. Based on the new role of the government, the
consultant will suggest the objectives of KTDA, Ministry of Agriculture and other government agencies.
In light of the new roles of the Government and KTDA in the sector, the consultant will develop a
detailed action plan outlining the actions, instruments of action with target start and completion dates.



ANNEX B. 11
page 19 of 19
IV.   CONSULTANT'S PERSONNEL:
10.   The consultant will provide a technical expert in the sector and support such expertise with a team
of experts in agriculture and public enterprise restructuring. Hands on experience in executing a
consulting assignment with similar scope of work is essential.
V.    REPORTING-.
11.   The consultants would provide regular progress reports during meetings with Investment
Secretary, DGIPE. A draft Snal report will be provided by August 15, 1992 and a final report by August
31, 1992. Copies of the draft and final reports will be sent simultaneously to IDA. The format for the
report will be agreed beforehand with the Government to ensure consistency with reports on parallel
studies on other PEs.



ANNEX B.12
PE REFORM: ASSISTANCE FOR TARGET ENTERPRISES AND INSTMTUTIONAL SUPPORT
ESTIMATED BUDGET AND TIMING
92 92 92 93 93 93 93 94 94 94 94  PERSON
STUDIES/TA                             02 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04  MONTHS  COST(S)
1. RESTRUCTURING OF 5 TARGET PEs
Big 5 Stratgy Study                       ---                                     12   360000
_       - _ _ _ _ _360000
KPTC
Plan Separation of KPTC                          ------                           18   S40000
Corporat Restucturhg
Plan: Telecom                                 ------                            16   480000
Corporate Restructuring
Plan: Poet                                     ------                            12   360000
Network Appraisal: Telecofm                     ------                            1S   450000
Sector Policy and
Regulation Study                                   ---                          20   600000
Accounting reew                                                                   15   450000
AsWt Revaluation                                                                  25   750000
3630000
KTDA
Sector Review                                    ------                           14   420000
Strategy Study                                      ------                        16   480000
Engineering Study                                      ------                      6   180000
1080000
NCPB
Performance Contract
Review                                    ---          ---          ---            3    90000    _
90000
KR
Review of Corporat Plan                          ---                               3    90000
RAview of Lose-Making ActIies
&Inntluionei Stucure                           ---------                         8    240000
Audit of Pratiuaton/
Contracing Out                                        --------                    8    240000
Implement Contracting Out/
Privatbatlon Options                                        --------            10   300000
Managent Performance &
Remunratbon Review                            ------                             8   240000
Study & Implement Staff
Rallonalisation                                      - ------------             1 3       39
1S00000
KPA
Ass tRevaluatlonStudy                        ------                                12   360000
Port Sector Stratgy Study                           -------                       17   510000
Set up Regulatory Body                                        --------            10   300000
Implement ICD Reslucturng                                     --------            17   510000
1B8OOOO
SUBTOTAL             8S40000
2. SAFETY NET ASSISTANCE
Implemenaton Assance                             ------                           20   600000
eooooo
3. REFORMS FOR OTHER RELATED INSTITUTlONS
Registrar- General
MIS Assistance                                   -----------------                30   1044000
1044000
Auditor-Gneral (SC)
MIS                                              ------                            6    180000
Training                                                                            2    60000
240000
Attorney General
Training                                         -----------------                 7    200000
200000
SUBTOTAL             14J4000
1042400



ANNEX B.13
page 1 of 4
Background
1.    This report for the Deatme  of Governmt Invesms ad public Entaprises (DGIPE)
gives our findinp from Phas one of dh two pas  scoping study sponsored by the United Kingdom
Overseas Development Aminisation (ODA). It examines what asistce or safety net'can be
provided to deal as fairly and humny s pousile wh workers who lose their jobs during the
current programme to resucture and private Kenya's public enteprise. Although this Report has
been commissioned by the Briti  Governmt under Brtish Aid arrTangements, the British
Government bears no responsibilty for, and is not in any way co   to, the views and
recommendations expressd herin.
Prsaa Seco Eng
2.    No comprehensive official data ae availe on tota parataa sector employment in Kenya.
Fieldwork by DGIPE officials and our own team suggest a total labour force (excluding regulatory
bodies) of around 170,000 sproad acrs 237 eterpris, conidtrably above previo  estimates.
Over 90,000 workers (54%) we cocated in the eight largest public enterprises. The safety net
discussed below will only apply to the 127 govenmoet controlled pafastls (mostly those with
government majority shareboldings), employing approxiuntely 134,000 workers. Where government
has a minority interest, or an enteprs  a recondy been privatised, private seor owners must take
responsibility for staffing levels and for fimding any rerment plans.
3.    No authoritative overstaffing eate exist for the pastal sector, but evidence from
previous retrenchment exercises ad curt cpore plan sugst aound 15 - 20% overstaffing is
typical at lower grades, with significant slls shrtgags at magl and technical levels. The total
labour surplus could therere mot to aound 25,000. Although the firt prority will be to
redeploy surplus staff inside e public swctor, this will oly be practical on a limited scale. If
restructuring occurs over a three to five year time period, there would therefore be approximately
5,000 candidates each year for a sfety net, spread across the country. This compares with a total
entry of over 500,000 new job soeker into Kenya's job markt each year.
The Safety Net 'Menu'
4.    A safety net is typically consucted fon thre main component:
(a)    Cash - where a lump -  paymot is simple to administ; very tractive to
employea, and ha wored elsewhere. Csh payments generly relate to final salary
and length of service. Fotunaty, most Kenyan parasatals offer roughly similar
salary leves an condiion of service;
(b)   Enhanced Pesion - maintaining ther pensions is of paticular concern to older
workers, althou pat of it is ofken commuted in Kenya to a single cash payment. If
workers ae giv, de opdon to redre early at 45, provision nt be made for pension



ANNEX B. 13
page 2 of 4
payments until they reach 55, where existing enterprise pension funding arrangements
will take over. To complicate matters, a few parastatals already offer early retirement
schemes based on that available for the Civil Service;
(c)    Benefits in Kind - such as free housing, family medical benefits, and training credits.
Providing such benefits is administively complex, and has been of limited value
elsewhere. nevertheless, excluding them altogether is not recommended. A few
parastatals offer free housing and medical benefits, and these can be valued highly,
particularly by older employees. To lose one's job, house, and health care all at once
can make life very difficult for employees. A gradual phasing out of such benefits is
preferable in such cases. In addition, provision of limited re-training can benefit
some employees and makes the scheme easier to present publicly.
5.    Recent Kenya experience with retrenchment schemes is limited. Kenya Airways made 961
staff compulsory redundant in 1990, with a cash benefit, and several smaller private sector firms have
recently offered cash payment schemes which went substantially beyond the legal minimum for
redundancy payments.
~~~Packcage
6.    Following interviews at MD level with the largest parasatals, experience designing a scheme
for Kenya Wildlife Service, and involvement with similar exercises in Ghana, Senegal, Sudan, and
Turkey, we recommend the package oudined below. This will be tested and refined through two pilot
exercises. Our preferred option comprises:
a cash lump sum single payment, plus, in some cases, minor benefits. Benefits would
mostly comprise housing and health care for the small number of enterprises which
offer these already. All non-cash benefits would be given a cash value, and deducted
from the value of the cash benefit. Each enterprise affected will decide on the exact
blend of cash vs. non-cash benefits to be offered; individual employees will not be
given a choice. Some retraining may also be offered as an additional benefit to all
employees;
*     the safety net will not increase existing pension entidtlements. However, it will lower
the qualifying age for the existing voluntary retirement scheme from 50 to 45. The
increased pension endtlement arising must be converted into a lump sum, which will
be funded through the safety net; the ongoing commitment will be funded by the
enterprise; benefit ded firmly to length of service and end salary. The formula will b
similar for all parastatals, and will non average equal around three years earnings (for
example, an employee of 10 years service earning 2000 KSh a month salary would
receive 72,000 KSh). Ibis payment level is generous compared with other recent
schemes, but will be refined during the pilots.
Administration of the Scheme
7.    Rather than controlling every aspect centrally, our preliminary recommendation is that DGIPE
should set out broad policies, and encourage parastatals themselves to idendfy surplus staff; apply for
funds; and make payments themselves, preferably from a special office set up by each large
parastatal to administer the scheme. Administrative arrangements, including the audit and monitoring



ANNEX B. 13
page 3 of 4
responsibilities of DGIPE, and methods to control employment of new workers following the exercise
(the so-called 'revolving door") will be developed further in Phase II.
Employee Eligibility and Selection
8.    Presentationally, a voluntary scheme is the most attractive. It must, however, be the
responsibility of management in each enterprise to identify those staff who are surplus to future
requirements. IN practice, a 'hard core" of _ _ employees (for example, those who are
consistently absent, or who make no contribution) may refuse to leave, even if offered very generous
terms. To counter this, managers need to set out criteria (such as age and length of service;
educational and technical qualifications; competency; performance; career development potential;
and attendance and disciplinary record) for identifying the staff they want to retain, and explain
clearly to the hard core that their services are not required, and that the package offered is very
generous. In particular, employees must be fully convinced that "this is the last offer;" and that
nothing more generous will be substituted if they hold on.
9.    A safety net package may prove most attractive to the most highly skilled and motivated
employees of the enterprise, precisely because they will be more employable elsewhere. To avoid
loss of such personnel, management should take steps at an early stage to 'ring fence' key skilled
staff, who, under no circumstances will be eligible for the safety net, and make an appropriate
announcement.
Potential Costs and Possible Sources of Funding
10.   Initial calculations, based on the average overstaffing referred to above of 15 - 20%, and the
package above, might require total cash payments of around KSh 2,000 million ($70 million), phased
over three to five years. This requirement could be met by government direct; by the parastatals
themselves, by the donor community;l or by a combination of all three. Preliminary discussions
with the donor group indicate that number of them might be interested in providing some funding.
They however require more detailed information on proposed arrangements before considering this
further. We recommend, therefore, that this Phase I report should be shown in confidence to senior
donor officials, and further detailed discussions held during Phase II.
Recommendation for Pilot Studies
11.   Although the final decision on the subject of the pilot study will be taken in the light of our
recommendations in Phase II, our preliminary view based on current information is that Kenya
Airways is most likely to meet the requirements for a successful pilot which can act as an exemplary
model for the full safety net programme.
12.   A number of detailed issues, most importantly the exact level of benefit, and staff selection
procedures, will be resolved through two pilot exercises. After discussion with Government, Kenya
Airways (KA) has been selected to represent the more commercially oriented parastatals, with
National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) for the more strategic parastatals. Management in both
parastatals are committed to achieve staff reductions, with KA as the result of privatisation initiatives
which require further retrenchments, and with NCPB as a result of the new performance contract
which specifies lower staffing levels. Work to prepare these pilots, and detail other parts of the
overall safety net programme, will be undertaken in Phase II.



KENYA SAFETY NET STUDY - Preliminary Implementation Plan (1992)
April                 May                   June          July           August September October
Scoping Study         Scoping Study         Pilot Project                     Commence Pilot
Phase I               Phase 11              Phase Ill                         Phase IV
-Produce Options _-> -Select pilot          -Secure funding                   -Identity & lay off staff
-Draw up TOR    _ -> -Define selection criteria   - _> -Administer benefits  - - -
for restructuring     and payment mechanism           - MonRor progress
fund                                                                           l
-Consider suppo       Prepare Follow-Ons                                        l
initiatives         Phase Ill
-Redefine strategy
------->  -Finalise numrbers/costs
l             --Develop administrative                      Launch Major
capacRty & controls      - - - - - - - - >   Programme
l____________________                        Phase    V
l             Prepare Support Initiatives                 -Absorb lessons from
l             Phase Ill                   _____--->    pilot
l             -Develop job creation schemes               -Launch scheme
l               and enterprise iniiatives                   for all parastatals
-Reform management culture
I- - - -  - - >   in state enterprises                                  l
- Develop health and welfare
l               provisions for former                                   l
l               employees                                               l
I             Prepare Restructuring Fund        Establish Fund
l             Phase Ill                         Phase IV
_ _ - - _ ---> -Define objectives         _-> -Set up administration -_>
-Secure funding                  -Commence payment
in and out
DGIPE assisted by Coopers & Lybrand         DGIPE Manpower Advisor            DGIPE; Manpower Advisor with extra  o
(with support if required, or    resources; or new dedicated unit      >4
consultants if advisor not yet in post)                               o x



ANNEX B,14
page 1 of 10
SIATEMENI OF MANAGEMENr INFORMATION SYSEM NEEDS
FOR REGISTRAR GENERAL'S OFFICE
I.        Statment of Management Information Needs
II.       Computer Hardware, Software and Other Equipment Requirements
mll.     TTranng
IV.       Other Observations
V.        Further Technical Assistance (Draft Terms of Reference)
VI.       Investment Esimate



ANNEX B. 14
page 2 of 10
I.     Staement  ft     _             mhndon SXMt Nem
1.1       The Registrar General is responsible for the regluraon of the following:
(a)    busine  names-under Cap 499 of dte Laws of Kenya;
(b)    Companies-under Cap 486 of the La   of Keoya;
(c)    Chattels ansfer-under Cap 28 of dw Laws of Key;
(d)    Mortages and charges-under Cap 486 of the law  of Kenya.
1.2       The management expect that a computer system will provide:
(a)    detailed reports on information held;
(b)    management summaries;
(c)    data analysis using different criteria;
(d)    access to original document on screen or hard copy.
1.3       The information maintained on the different registrations include:
(a)    business name:
X     name of businesa;
*     nature of buiness'
*     date of commenc on of opeons;
*     registered office;
*     registered branche;
*     particulars of proprietor or partners (nam, nationality and citizenship,
nationality of origin, age, sx, residnc, other business occupation);
(b)    Company:
*     name of company;
*     date of registration,;
*     where incorporated (if outside Kenya);
*     number of sha;
*     clan of shas;
*     nominal amount of each share;



ANNEX B. 14
page 3 of 10
liabilities, for example, mortgages and charges;
*     shareholders and number of shares held;
*     directors and company secretary (name, nationality, address, other
directorships);
*     charter, statutes, memorandum and articles of the company or other
instrument constituting or defining the constiution of the company;
*     special/ordinary resolutions passed at extraordinary general meeting;
*     accounts (for public companies only);
(c)    chattels transfer:
*     legal document or agreement outlining the details of the transfer;
(d)    mortgages and charges:
*     legal document outlining the agreement.
1.4       The volumes of transaction are outlined below:
(a)   existing data:
Description                       Nlumbe
registered companies              50,000
registered business names         175,000
TMere are an estimated 500,000 - 1 million files on the above companies and business names
owing to the opening of temporary files when the original files are misplaced and also owing to
the fact that some companies' data is maintained in multiple files due the volume.
(b)   transaction data:
Descrioffon                                          Numkber  Timing
application for searches                           150 - 200  day
incorporation of companies                              400  month
changes of company names                                 20  month
conversion of private company to public company           5  year
conversion of business name to company                   50  month
new business names registered                           1200  month
cessation of business names                              50  month
changes in business names                          500 - 700  month
chattels transfers                                      300  month
mortgages and charges                                   300  month
annual returns submitted                               2000  month



ANNEX B. 14
page 4 of 10
II.       Computer Hardware, Sottware, and Other Equipment Reguiremnents
Computer/Hardware and Software
2.1       We expect that a multi-user computer system with 64 mb (Megabytes) RAM and four
GB (Gigabytes) expandable hard disk capacity will meet the requirements. We have
recommended a large disk capacity in on the assumption that documents such as memorandum
and articles of association, chattels transfer, mortgage and charges will be scanned and stored. In
the event that the documents are not stored in their entirety then the computer sizing will reduce
significantly. Six to ten terminals will be required for data input.
2.2       We recommend two heavy duty printers and two 24-pin printers. In a multi-user
environment, communication hardware and software will be rewired. A separate security system
may be required to ensure the security of the data both on-line and off-line.
2.3       In view of the frequent power fluctuations in Nairobi an uninterruptible power supply
(UPS) unit will be a necessity. We recommend that the UPS should offer at least 10-15 minutes
power at full load.
2.4       The main software is likely to be a relational database system, but there may be a
requirement for:
(a)    a system or sub system to be developed in other programming languages; or
(b)    acquire a working system from another country, (for example, Ghana) and
modify it to suit the local requirements.
2.5       A fireproof data safe will be necessary to ensure that backup data is safe in the case of
fire and also to protect it from being destroyed or used by unauthorized personnel.
2.6       A spreadsheet package will be required for data analysis. There is also a need for a
word processing package to process official letters. To enable both these functions four fully
IBM-compatible PCs will be needed.
Other Ecuipmen
2.7       In order to maintain on hard disk the current legal instruments which enable
registration, a scanner/image processor and the appropriate software and hardware should be
considered. This will enable the documents to be recalled in their entirety and would be linked to
the company or business name registration number.
2.8       In order to archive information that has been superseded and appreciating that:
(a)   the superseded information may be needed at a later date, for example, in a
court case challenging some action; and



ANNAE B4
page 5 of 10
(b)   there 1. lack of large and secure sorage spae;
We believe that consideration should be given to string inforation using microfiche equipment.
2.9       Two photocopiers are desirable. The maintenan  of the machines may be subsidized
by charging a fee for any copies made for external use.
2.10      The offico of the registrar general In   ow d undwer Cap 486 Section 339 of the
Laws of Kenya to strike off from the regisr companies dt do nt file their annual ream.
This function in hampered by lack of invetigtors to visit varius companies to investigate
validity and non submission of returns. A vehicle for he invesigators is desirable.
m.        IK                         - n
3.1      In order to gain the necessary skills to operte the computer system, we recommend
that the following courses be conducted:
(a)   introduction to computers - for all pesonne who will be involved In
preparation of input docume, data entry opero, end users of ouputs and
maaemen
(b)   spreadsheet course - for the computer opatr and magement;
(c)    word processing course - for the computer opraors and management.
3.2       Most of the reputable local consultancy firms run tailor-made courses and are best
suited to undertake this assignment.
3.3       We recommend that management aend all the coure in order to gain an
appreciation of the systems capabilities and -to explore pracdcal ways of exploiting these
capabilities.
3.4       The suppliers would provide basic training in the use of the hardware and software
purchased. Detailed riining in use of the selected software and hardwae  and related procedures
would be provided as part of the Implementation project.
IV.    0ib ObaWns
4.1       Due to the present paper-based fiing system, a number of scrity isues were noted:
(a)   files are exposed to damae from wat  leakag, mice and white an;
(b) all fles are housed in the same building ad in ce of a fire, it would be
impossible to reconstruct the information held;



-           ~~~ANNEX 1-1
pap 6 of 10
(c)   files examined by the public aemt lw day reu       with all the original
contents as some papers ae removed;
(d)    some papers are accidentally      off om  th file and got lost or are
misplaced as a result.
4.2       In most cases, the information bhld on fil  is sewrest and there s a backlog of
work in updating files, especially the index of reglberd buins mes sometim  resulting in
duplication of business names.
4.3       Some areas are undestfed dreby reduig  ew 1-  ihcy of t  oe     , while odes
have no staff, for example, investigations.
4.4       A review of organizational and securt  Isson I reuie to re ed short term
solutions pending full computerization.
V.        FulrtherTecIhnicalAssistance Daf.m
5.1       Outlined below are the areas that  m the basi hr hith  technical ass:tane:
(a)   identify security and org ti prb   w t dafet or may affect the
integrity of information kept ad rco  d ottem solutin;
(b)    review files in order to ld.ntify donam file,  mising inf ation and
institute measures to locate the ml     u IIm
(c)    recruit investigors to invesigat valit  of companies' anIa retu    ad
companies not submining th sme
(d)    prepare a computeriza    sgy, icudIg detaled specficatiom of usr
requirements (SOUR), defin the symes' mam   aowm, lpt,
information to be aintain, codleg ate, ouip, maimprocssing
features, volumes and timlap, comems ad sec  .               compuW
configuration and system intll-;
(e)    prepare invitation to tder 1). Seem hadwe ad sowem includin
other equipment based on the OUR ad devlnbp    lMpl_      n pla;
(f)    recruit computer profesIombls hor    poOm of compN    Manager,
supervisor and operato;
(g)    develop or acquire and amend softwr seected, lse wh slectd  hardwo
vendor for supply and maintence .Usct
(h)   train staff in required cour;



ANNIEX B. 14
page 7 of 10
(1)   superviso input of dat ad provide project manamnt;
()    document procedures in relation to the new computer systems.
5.2       Attached overleaf is a workplan oudining the eapsed time of these tasks.



WORK PLAN
ELAPSED TIME IN MONTHS
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16              38 39 40 41
ACTIVITY        INPUT
____ ____ ____  ___  MONTHS
1. Review security and
organizational Issues and   0.5    _
recommend short term
sokitions.
2. Review files.               2.0        _  _
3. Recruit investigators.      0.5           _  _
4. Prepare computerisation
strategy, including SOURs   1.0           _  _
5. Prepare ITT, computer
hardware, software and
other equipment selection.  1.0                     _  _
6. Recruit iT personnel.       0.5
7. Develop or amend software.    4.0
8. Train staff in systems.     1.5
9. Document procedures.        2.0
10. Supervise input & provide                                                                                       oq
project management.       12-24                                                                 - -  -  -  -  -  -          -  - - - -



ANNEX B.-14
page 9 of 10
VI.
6.1       Wo have _summI  bew  ca amdmst for the technical assistance roeired:
(months)
(a)           lee  .wk   d4 orinMi
lime d .4 I noe   d sot tuU
solutlou                                   0'.5               15,000
(b)          Riew fle                                    2.0                60,000
(c)          Recuk  0d     u                             0.'                15,000
(d)          Prar u                a
hclol  SOURj        -                      1.0                30,000
(0)          PreP.. fl. ooT,      h.4was
sowdo_h_eim
seleodos                                   1.0                30,000
*t)          R.cnak  IT I                                0.5                15Sl,000
.g)          Delovap or m_^1md 4      ootwaN             4.0               120,000
ph)          Train laffh i "am                           1.5                45,000
(1)          Documew pocerm                              2.0                60,000
O         - Supervie I4>|np      e o
projet  _mmag4meg                        12 - 24    360,000 - 720,000



ANNEX B. 14
page 10 of 10
Co==uter Hardware. Software and Other Equiment
6.2             Below is a cost estimate of the computer hardware, sofware and other
equipment requirement:
(a)     64 mb RAM, 4 GB expandable computer hard disk           40,000
(b)     2 heavy duty printens                                   16,000
(c)     2 24-pin printer                                         2,000
(d)     4 IBM compatible PCs 0 $2000 per unit                    8,000
(e)     security system software/hardware                        5,000
(f)     communications hardware/software                         5,000
(g)     UPS unit                                                10,000
(h)     2 photocopien a $10,000 per unit                        20,000
(i)     fireproof data safes                                     10,000
(j)    spreadsheet and word processing packages
$2,000 x 4 units                                         8,000
(k)     backup media (for six to twelve months)                 10,000
(1)     vehicle for invetigators                                10,000
Subtotal    144,000
(m)     scanner/image procasor and required
softwareAhardware                                            *
(n)     microfiche and related equipment                             *
cost not estimated as infOrmation not readily available in Kenya
6.3        These estimates will vary and may change once detailed SOURs have been
specified.
6.4        We have assumed that the equipment will be purchased free from all local taxes
including duty.



ANNEX B. 1S
page 1 of 2
STUDY TO IMPROVE THE PERF'ORMANCE
OF THE AUDITOR GENERAL (STATE CORPORATIONS)
Draft Terns of Reference
Backgyround
The Auditor-General (State Corporations) (AGSC) is responsible for the audit of
approximately 120 state corporations, with a timetable prescribed by Part VII of the Exchequer and Audit
Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap 412). Currently, this duty cannot be discharged satisfactorily, and accounts
are often either late, or qualified. The government body exercising ownership functions over strategic
PEs-The Department of Government Investments & Public Enterprises (DGIPE), therefore has
inadequate information on which to act. Constraints facing the AGSC include:
a)    Shortage of qualified audit staff (amongst 500 staff, there are very few fully qualified
auditors (CPA  o) to lead audit teams in the field, and carry out more complex tasks).
Civil service salary levels are not competitive with the private sector, making recruitment
difficult;
b)    Non-availability of computers and other office equipment. Large PEs are increasingly
becoming computerised, and require computer audit in addition to other computerised
analysis; and
c)    Poor accounting practices inside PEs themselves, who often cannot supply adequate data
and are not required to respond effectively or quickly when their accounts are
unsatisfactory.
As a result of other policy reforms, PEs are now expected to operate in a more commercial
environment, and compete on a level playing field with private sector firms. In the long term this is
likely to entail them being audited in an equivalent manner, which may most easily be achieved through
the re-introduction of private sector audit firms, who previously played a substantial role in PE audits.
Study Objectives
Consultants are required to develop a medium term strategy for the AGSC which will help to
ensure that PE audits are completed satisfactorily, and submitted on time. Recommendations may also
include actions to be taken by DGIPE, and by PEs themselves.



ANNEX B. 1S
page 2 of 2
Detailed Work Tasks
Are as follows:
a)    Document the current status of PE audits, identifying issues and problems. This aould
include an analysis of which problems are due to institutional and regulatory
arrangements (i.e. PEs not being required to carry out audit and accounting tasks
rigorously); which are due to inadequacies at the PE level (for example inadequate
internal accounting practices or resources); and which are due to inadequacies at AGSC.
b)    Present a selection of methods used for auditing PEs internationally, with particular
attention to the role of private sector firms, and methods of increasing their involvement.
Review the capability of private sector firms in Kenya to undertake these tasks.
c)    Develop and agree with AGSC and DGIPE on a medium term strategy for the AGSC.
This should include recommendations on the relative roles of AGSC, DGIPE, and PE
Boards regarding issues such as appointment of auditors and submission of accounts.
Options such as using private sector firms to supervise work conducted by AGSC staff
should be examined. If a substantial change in the AGSC's role is recommended,
methods of phasing such changes should be specified. Current legal requirements, and
any legal changes which may be necessary to increase the involvement of private sector
firms should be examined.
d)    Develop a detailed workplan for the AGSC to carry through this strategy. This should
include definition of investment and training needs, building on an existing consultant's
report in these areas. The workplan should give specific performance targets in terms
of PE audits, and identify other milestones by which progress against plan can be
measured.



ANNEX B. l
Page 1 of 4
STUDY ON REGULATORY BOARDS AND AUMHORMTES (B&As)
Draft Tat. of Rufernce
BacJgound
1.           One prime objective of the Govemn.wt of Ken's (O0K) comprehensive
segy for Partaa Reform is to improve td regulty eviment, enhance the efficiency
and management of firma to be reined in the public sector, and separate the commercial and
regulatory functions of govemmt-owned eneprise.
2.           In this regard, regulation of PEa and their competito  has been opaque and
erratic, generaly protectig inefficient state producers raer thcreating a level playing field
with the private sector. Rgulations have afcted compein policy for domestic and foreign
firms, price controls, distribution arangem, tax an _gemet and labor marlket regulators,
and have given PEs major though diminishin advantag over private sector firms.
3.           Governtme is neverhle  movig away from direct intervention in the economy,
towards indirect control  rough intoducing a moder regulatory structure, and appropriate
legislation. There are currndy over 100 B&As, the functow, responsibilities and reporting line
of which are often not clear. Many of hm me closely linked to ministries or existing PEs and
do not with the requisite indepedenco, particularly where the interst of consumers are
concerned.
4.           Govenent hs derefo  dedded that a an integral part of the overall reform
program, DGIPE will be responsible for the rationalization of existin regulatory boards and
authorities, and the establishmet of now ones where other reforms (for example, breaking up an
usting monopoly) make this necesary. In performig this lead role, DGIPE will consult with
line ministries and extn PEs  neessary. Where reguklon of a large sector of the economy
is concerned (for example, in power generation and dibuto, or rail transportation), specific
sector programs are underway which will involve soting up new regulatory structures. Most of
these arrangement are outside the scope of this study, althou proposed arrangements may be
used as models for other smlloer ector. The consultants will need to check with DGIPE at the
start of the study whether a particular area is to be covered.
Study Objectives
S.           Government wishes to emerge from the reform process with a streamlined
regulatory sector containing the minimum necary numbr of bodies. Each should have clearly
defined functions, powers, reporting lins, and rsponibilities, and be autonomous and non-
political. Consultants are required to produce a phsed program for achieving this.
Specific Tasks and Outputs
6.           Slap 1: Idetflctio   and usesmit of edstig B&As. All existing B&As
are to be identified, and their cumrrt objectives, inputs, reporing lines, and recent actions



ANNEX B. 1
Page 2 of 4
described. Tey should be caterizd  robay according to their maj  function). An
asessmet should be made both of their remit ad dhir effectiveneu in carying it out.
7.           The following stops wil be undertaken:
a.     Dats collecn
Establish a comploto list of all BDA. For ea  identfy:
(1) its objectives, powen, and relaoship with odher gnvernmenad non-
governmen bodies;
(2) resources ued (staff, facile, budget);
(3) main arm of operalo and
(4) recent ac   , decisions, and odr outputs.
This suey should u far a pouible include other stituions performing a
regulo  funcio but not aecerily caified s B&As.
b.     QMaaaifi
Review possible clsific    of the B&As. These might be:
(1) arranged by bodies  a ty protect, e.g.:
3     producer income tabilizes
3     consumer prection from   monopolies/market forces
*     public health and saoty
*        -        -Seo
*     envhmen~  prtection
(2) arranged by indury that dty rqeule:
*     tradable/no-tradable goods
*     public uitie/pive secor
*   priumndaryAudom Inusy
Conclude with a wodkng             taking into account the requirements of
the further steps deald bdow.
c.               Of_ atvns
This should include a revie of:
each B&s objectivs ad Istitona structure;
*      inputs (e.g. rnmbe of staff, cost);



ANNEX B. 16i
Page 3 of 4
*     outputs (e.g. frequency/volume of publications, rulings, publicity);
*     a broad comparison of the current, regulated industry against a
wderegulated industry;
*     the regulator/regulatee relationship, in particular the extent of regulator
capture'; and
*     the inputs and outputs of B&AS compared with others within their
classifications.
8.           Stage 2: Identfiadtion of and plan for B&As required In future
d.    Identification of B&As required in future
Redundant B&As and required existing or new B&As will be identified through a
review of the regulatory needs of the Kenyan economy.
Those areas of the economy requiring regulation will be established by the
following steps:
*     identify current and potential monopolies in the Kenyan economy;
*     establish major commodities/services and consider need for regulation;
and
D     obtain details of B&As operating in other economies (both developed and
developing) and consider applicability to Kenya.
e.    Plan rationalization of the sector
Having assessed the current B&As and identified areas where new B&As may be
created, the consultant should produce an outline rationalization plan for the
sector, including use of the following measures:
*     combine existing B&As where their remits overlap significantly;
*     disband those B&As which are duplicated or no longer required;
*     establishment of new B&As where required;
*     clarifying the objectives, restructuring the functions or other measures to
improve the effectiveness of those B&As found to be inefficient.
The consultant is not expected to produce a detailed mission statement or plan for
each B&A, but for each category of B&A, and especially for newly created
B&As, model terms of reference and other documentation should be provided.
These should include:
*  objectives;
*  powers to be vested;
*  methods by which regulation will be achieved;
*  possible performance targets/methods of performance measurement; and
*  resourcing requirements.



ANNEX B. 16i
Page 4 of 4
f.     Develop institutional arrangements for the supervision of all B&As
An appropriate reporting relationship for each category of B&As will be
recommended, including the possibility of:
*     reporting to Ministries;
*     reporting to independent commissions or national regulation bodies;
*     establishing 'consumer watchdog' agencies; and
*     ensuring some insulation from political interference.
g.     Other tasc
At an appropriate point in the study, the consultants will give government officials
a presentation on how regulatory systems operate in other countries, and
implications for Kenya.
h.    Reporting arrangements and timetable
The consultants will report directly to the Head of DGIPE. They will be expected
to work largely unaided, although DGIPE will facilitate the arrangement of
appointments and obtaining documents. An initial report will be required after
two weeks, with an interim report after two months and a final report after four
months.



ANNEX B. 1
page 4 of 9
C. KTDA RESTRUCTURING PLAN
ACTION                                   TARGET
COMPLETION
DATE
GOVERNANCE
1.    Publish a GOK Policy Statement on Tea Sector, including
divestiture of KTDA shareholding and control in Tea
Factories, and define appropriate roles of GOK, Tea
Board and private sector including KTDA.               June 30, 1993
2.     Prepare Regulatory and Legislative changes necessary to
implement policy.                                      December 1993
INTERNAL REORGANIZATION
3.    Re-examine and clarify ownership of KTDA in light of (1)
above, and implement new ownership structure.          June 30, 1994
4.     Prepare and execute commercial contracts for social
services (e.g. extension services) between GOK and
KTDA.                                                  June 30, 1994
5.     Receive proposals from KTDA for internal restructuring
of KTDA and reach agreement.                           June 30, 1994
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
ASSISTANCE COMPONENT                         COMPONENT COST
1     Corporate governance and policy statement.                        $100,000
2.     Regulatory and legislative changes.                              $100,000
3.    Preparing commercial contracts.                                   $200,000
4.    Internal re-organization.                                         S210.000
TOTAL                                                            $610,000



ANNEX B.18
page 5 of 9
D. ACTION PLAN FOR RESTRUCTURING OF NCPB
PROGRAMME                          ACTION                     T  TARGET
COMPONENT                        __DATE   ]
Shift to Buyer 1.1   Inclusion of BSLR policy in revised   une 1993
and Seller of       performance contract, and training in
Last Resort         BSLR management.
(BSLR)        1.2   Study on buffer stock and funding.    April 1993
Domestic      2.1   Study to be undertaken to highlight the
Wheat               effect of decontrol.                    pril 1993
Decontrol     2.2    Arising from the recommendation of
decontrol study, the most appropriate
decontrol measure to be adopted in
revised P.C. for fiscal year 1993/94.  une 1993
Implementa-         As outlined in the Performance Contract.  une 1993
tion of Pricing
Policy
4.    Scaling down        This would be done as outlined in the  Continuously in
of NCPB             performance contract.                  onformnity with
Performance
Contract.
5*    External            A study to be undertaken to determine the
Trade               pros and cons for liberalization of
Liberalization      external trade.                        May 1993
Modification        Following the adoption of the next
of                  version of the Performance Contract by
Performance         December 31, 1992.                     une 1993 and
Contract                                                  anually
thereafter.



ANNE B.18
page 6 of 9
SIUDIES REQUIRED TO FACITATE RE  RUCTURING OF NCPB
COMPONENT                           FUNDING REQUIRED
1.    Training in BSLR Management                                     $200,000
2.    Preparation of formulae for floor/ceiling prices.              $120,000
3.    Scaling down of NCPB (preparation of detailed
depot restructuring plan).                                   US$120,000
4.    External trade liberalization.                               US$120,000
5.    Stocks/Trade study on stock management under-
BSLR management.                                             US$120,000
6.    Modification of PC.                                           US$60,000
7.    Establishment of Market Information Systems.                 US$200,000
TOTAL                                    US$940,000



E. ACTION PROGRAMME FOR RESMUCTURING KPTC
ACTIVITY AREAS                                             ACTION                              T   COMPLETION
________________________________________I |TARGET
1. SHORT TERM PROGRAMME
a)     Funancial Aspects                            Undcrtake r0nncial restructuring to ensure overaU fnancial objctives  Dec. 1993
are met, consistent with performance contract.
b)     Op _atioa Aspc ts                            Acee improvement in opcrting targets as per                      De. 1994
2. ORGANIZATION
a)     Change of Corporate Culure                   Program to change corporate cukum to make it more business-oriented.   June 1993
b)     Manpower Developmnt                          Develop manpower plnning and development systm                   Dec. 1994
3. LEGALJREGULATORY
a)     Perfomwace Contract                          Drw up a performance contract bdween the Government and KPTC     June 1993
b)     Tariff Policy                                Define tariff policy.                                            Sept. 1993
4.     MARKET LlBERALIZATION                        Draw up and implement a progrmme for lberaization in the         Dc. 1993
teecommnnuications sctor including tenninal equipment mobile senries
and value addd savic.
S.     SEPARATION OF POSTS AND TELECOMS             (a)     Study and deai  pohly pbposl on epartion of posts and
telecommunicaions including possibihitier of divesitre to
privte scetor, and comprising legislative, li;ensing and
regultory framewok.                                     Dec. 1993
(b)     Obtain cabinet approval fr propoab.                     June 1994
(c)    Submit pposa to Parliament.                             Dec. 1994
6.     DIVESTTURE OF GILGIL                         Based on Maxwell Stamp study recommndations and subsequent       Dec. 1993
MANUFACTURING FACILITY                       epartion of Giil alrady carried out:
(a)     Identify opton for divestiture of Gilgil to private sctor, with
spocific action recommendations; and                                                       lb
_ ______________________a (b)                        adopt and implement recommendations.
0o
'.0



TECHOICAL ASSISTANCE FOR RESTRJCTtltNG KPTC
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
TOR             ISSUE LETTER       COMPLETE          APPOINT         COMPLETE         IMPLEMENT-          TA              COS1T
ACTIVITY         COWPLETED        OF INVITATION      EVALUATION        CONSULTANTS     STJIDES          ATION PERIOD        MAN-WMOTHS    (US$OOO)
1.   SamT TE0
i  PROtU_E_                                                                                                                           __
a     Financial Aspects   02.01.93           30.01.93         30.04.93         01.05.93         31.07.93          5 mos.            6 men/mos.        150
2.   OGAUIZATION                                                                             _   _
a.   Cuttural Cha_  e      02.01.93          30.01.93         30.04.93       1 01.05.93         31.10.93          24  os.          | 6 man/mos.       150
__ _ Programme_                               _ _ __  _ _   3 . 4 931 _        _ _  _ _ __            ~~._                          __  _ _ _  _    7
b.   Mawoow.r              02.01 .93         30.01.93       |30.04.93        | 01.05.93        | 30.04.94       T 2_0              | 15  an/mos|. 375
3.   LEGAL/lEBaUTURY
.   Legistlation           30.01 .93         28.02.93         30.05.93         01.06.93         30.09.93          9 on.             3 Wan/os.         75
b.   Estabtishment of      15.02.93          15.05.93         1S.06.93         01.09.93         30.12.93          6 mos.             6 en/moe.        150
Reguletory  ody
C.   Performance            02.01.93         30.01.93         30.04.93         01.05.93         30.07.93          5 Mos.             3  an/oe.s       75
d.   Tariff Potilcy      | 15.01.93          15.02.93       I 15.05.93       | 01 .06.93         30.06.93         2  os              12  man/o.s    300
4.    ^M3E"
i ~~~flIbCIAL ZSIR3t
a.   Detnited              02.01.93          30.01.93         30.04.93         01.05.93        |30.08.93          6 mes.             4 eenhos.   |J100
b.   financial L Mgt.    02.01.93             30.01 .93       30.04.93         01 .05.93        30.10.94          30 mo.             18 smaso.        450
Accltfng Systeem|                                                 
c.   Fixed Asset           01 .02.93         01 .03           01.06.93         01 .07.93        30.11.93           12 oN.            5  an/oes.       125
\        _   ~~~cc'tfng Syst .
d.   Hagment               01.02.93           01.03.93         01.06.93         01.07.93        30.11.93           12 mo.            24  anmoe.       600
Informatlon                     _                                                                                                          _ _
I 5.   SAtATIOU OF           26.02.93          30.03.93          30.06.93         01.07.93         31.12.93          12 me.             28 mmos.        700
POSTS AM                              III                                                                            
ITELECOM                                                                                                                      T IrAL
__________________                                                                                 ~~ToTAL           13250     
3250~
*1~
OD
0



ANNEX B.18
page 9 of 9
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COST
('000 US$)
Strategy Study                                 360
Kenya Port Authority                          1685
Kenya Railways                                1495
Kenya Tea Development Authority                610
Kenya Post & Telecommunications Corporation   3250
National Cereal & Produce Board                940
TOTAL                                         8340



ANNEX B.19
page 1 of 1
REFORM OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
During the course of negotiations the Kenyan and IDA delegations discussed the draft
proposal (presented by the Kenyan delegation) for the reform of corporate governance of PEs and
of their relationship with the Government. As a result, it was agreed that a reformed system
would incorporate the following 3 specific agreements: (i) that appointments and dismissals of PE
board members are to be made by the same official(s), always recognizing that under the law such
powers are explicitly or implicitly vested in H.E. the President of Kenya; (ii) all decisions by
relevant (sectoral) ministers are to be made jointly with the Minister of Finance; and (iii) the
Parastatal Advisory Committee would have no role in the reformed system. The outline of the
resultant new version and its application to categories A, B and C in approximate order of the
original proposal is as follows:
ADDointment. dismissal of PE board members: by relevant Minister and Minister of
Finance acting jointly upon nomination by DGIPE (A, B and C).
Appointment. dismissal of CEO: by PE board of directors (B and C); with approval
required by DGIPE (A).
ADpointment. dismissal of non-executive PE board chairman: PE board (B and C);
DGIPE upon nomination by board (A).
Deciding board composition and criteria for selecting board members: Relevant Minister
and Minister of Finance acting jointly on proposals by DGIPE (A); and DGIPE (B and
C).
Maintaining an inventory of qualified candidates for board positions: DGIPE (A, B and
C).
Establish and operate performance-related compensation system: DGIPE (A, B and C).
Deciding on appeals against decisions: the level above the one that made the decision (A,
B and C).
Communications of all appointments/dismissals: DGIPE (A, B and C).
IDA has agreed in principle to the system outlined above subject to receipt and acceptance
of (i) a statement of the criteria underlying the grouping of the 33 strategic PEs into categories A,
B and C and of the names of PEs falling into each category, and (ii) a statement that for purposes
of this system, the rules applying to category C will also apply to the approximately 162 PEs that
are in the longer-term pipeline for divestiture.






