Q-s
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11248-KE
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PARASTATAL REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT: VOLUME I
November 9, 1992
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange rate used in the report: US$1.00 = KSh. 30.0 1/
Ksh. 1.00 = US$0.0333
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK           Central Bank of Kenya
CMA           Capital Markets Authority
DGIPE         Department of Government Investments and Public
Enterprises
ESOP          Employee Stock Ownership Plans
ESTU          Executive Secretariat Technical Unit
GOK           Government of Kenya
GID           Government Investment Department (MOF)
ICDC          Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Industrial Development Bank
ISAC          Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KPA           Kenya Ports Authority
KPTC          Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
KR            Kenya Railways
KTDA          Kenya Tea Development Authority
NCPB          National Cereals and Produce Board
NSE           Nairobi Stock Exchange
PE            Public Enterprises
PERP          Public Enterprise Reform Program
PRPC          Parastatal Reform Program Committee
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
MOF           Ministry of Finance
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which took place from April 21
to May 9, 1992 and which consisted of Messrs/Mesdames Irfan Aleem, AF2PE (Mission Leader);
Henry Laurant, CECPS, Toby Burton and Ollie Haggerty, Consultants (Public Enterprise Reform);
Jamal Saghir, CFSPS and Khaled Sherif, AFTIM (Privatization); Brian Taylor, Consultant (Capital
Markets); and Elizabeth Otubea Adu, LEGAF (Legal Framework). Mr. John Nellis, CECPS, was the
Lead Advisor and Ms. Shahla Torabi, AFTIM, was the Peer Reviewer. The Director of the Eastern
Africa Department is Mr. Francis X. Colaqo and the Division Chief for the Public and Private
Enterprise Division is Mr. Robert E. Hindle. Ms. Rosario Zorrilia and Mr. Terry Anderson provided
administrative and secretarial support to the team, including report compilation.
1/ The period average exchange rate for January - June, 1992 was US$1.00 = KSh. 30.27 or KSh. 1.00
USS0.03304



FOR OMCIAL USE OF'.:!
KENYA
PARASTATAL REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No
CREDIT SUMMARY                  ...................................... i
PART I THE ECONOMY                                           .                            1
PART II   THE PARASTATAL SECTOR IN KENYA & RECENT PERFORMANCE
A. Background.                                                            2
B.  Major Feature of the Sector .3
C.     Recent Performance and Need for Reforms .3
D.    Past Efforts to Implement Reforms and Lessons Learned        .      5
E.    Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank Experience in TA Projects         7
PART m    THE PROGRAM FOR PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
A.    Introduction .................................... 9
B.    The Reform Program for Privatization  .................. 10
1)     Basic Policies, Procedures, and Institutional Arrangement . 10
2)     The Privatization Work Program ................. 13
3)     Strengthening of Capital Markets and Private Sector
Development ............................. 15
C.    Public Enterprise Reform   .......................... 16
1)     Basic Policy and Other Aspects .................. 16
2)     Sector-Wide Reform Actions ................... 17
3)     Actions for Restructuring Major PEs ....        .......... 19
4)     Design and Implementation of a Social Safety Net ... ... 20
5)     Institutional Arrangements ..................... 21
D.    Reforms for Other Related Institutions .................. 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART IV      THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.    Rationale for Bank Involvement ...................... 23
B.    Project Objectives .........       ...................... 23
C.    Project Description ........       ...................... 24
Privatization Component ........................... 24
Public Enterprise Reform Component ................... 27
D.    Project Costs, Financing, and Procurement .....    .......... 31
E.    Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review  ..... 36
PART V       BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits ......... 38
B. Riss ......... 38
PART VI   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED/TO BE
REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Actions Already Taken .... : ......................  40
Agreements Reached ..........           ............ 41
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .....................  43
Recommendation ..........                                   43
ANNEX 1  ASSISTANCE BY MAJOR DONORS TO GOVERNMENT PROGRAM OF PUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
ANNEX 2   TOTAL PROJECT BUDGET
ANNEX 3    BANK SUPERVISION PLAN
ANNEX 4    IDA FINANCED CONSULTANCY SERVICES IN THE PROJECT



IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
PRIVATIZATION COMPONENT
ANNEX A. I           Policy Paper on Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization
ANNEX A.2. 1         Strategic "Commercially Oriented' State Enterprises to be Retained in the
Public Domain
ANNEX A.2.2          Public Ownership (Direct and Indirect) of "Commercially Oriented'
Enterprises
ANNEX A.3. 1         Twenty Priority Candidates for Privatization: Preliminary Valuation of
Government Equity
ANNEX A.3.2          Enterprises Approved for the First Phase of Divestiture by the Parastatal
Reform Programme Committee
ANNEX A.4            Kenya - Privatization Action Plan: Implementation Schedule
ANNEX A.5            Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Privatize Kenya
Airways
ANNEX A.6            Proposed Organization Structure for ESTU
ANNEX A.7            Terms of Reference of Senior Staff of the Executive Secretariat and Technical
Unit (ESTU)
ANNEX A.8            Total Project Budget (Including Privatization & PE Reform Components)
ANNEX A.9            Privatization Progress Report: Outline
ANNEX A. 10          Terms of Reference for a Study on Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs)
ANNEX A. 11          ESTU Task Implementation Plan (1992-1994)
ANNEX A.12           Detailed Evaluation Criteria for Mid-Term Review
ANNEX A. 13          Listing and Timetable for Proposed PE Liquidations



PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM COMPONENT
ANNEX B. I           Study of Subsidies and Other Financial Flows in Favor of the Major PEs -
Draft Terms of Reference
ANNEX B.2            DGIPE Tasks:
A. Introduction - DGIPE Priority Tasks
B. DGIPE Task Implementation Plan (1992-1994)
ANNEX B.3            Proposed Organization Structure for DGIPE
ANNEX B.4            DGIPE Functions Chart
ANNEX B.5            DGIPE Job Descriptions for Key Posts
ANNEX B.6            DGIPE Staff Resourcing Program
ANNEX B.7            DGIPE Proposed Budget - Local Personnel Costs only
ANNEX B.8            DGIPE: Proposed Budget for Technical Assistance Costs
ANNEX B.9            Base Data for Major PEs
A. Criteria Underlying Selection of PEs for Restructuring
B. Main Financial Indicators for Major PEs
ANNEX B. 10          Background and Plans for Restructuring Initiatives
ANNEX B. 11          Scoping Studies for Restructuring of Five Target PEs: Draft Terms of
Reference
ANNEX B. 12         PE Reform: Assistance for Target Enterprises and Institutional Support -
Estimated Budget and Timing
ANNEX B. 13          Executive Summary and Preliminary Implementation Plan From Safety Net
Study Report
ANNEX B. 14          Statement of Management Information System Needs for Registrar-General's
Office
ANNEX B. 15          Draft Terms of Reference for Study to Improve the Performance of the
Auditor General (State Corporations)
ANNEX B. 16          Draft Terms of Reference for Study on Regulatory Boards and Authorities
ANNEX B. 17          Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Public Enterprise (PE) Cross-Debts
and other Indebtedness
ANNEX B. 18          Agreed Restructuring Plans and Associated Technical Assistance for Five
Target PEs
ANNEX B. 19          Reform of Corporate Governance



KENYA
PARASTATAL REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Government of Kenya
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Finance
Credit Amount:       SDR 16.10 million (US$ 23.32 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms with a 40 year maturity
Project Objectives:   The main objective of the TA Project is to support the Government's
parastatal reform program by providing the technical, financial and
institutional assistance required by the program over the next 24 months to
improve resource allocation and increase production efficiency. Expected
key outcomes by project's end include: (i) privatization of at least 20 PEs
out of the 207 earmarked for eventual divestiture, and liquidation of a
number of uneconomic PEs; (ii) improvement of the efficiency,
profitability, and accountability of the remaining PEs by phasing out
subsidies, establishing an improved corporate governance system, and
dealing with excess indebtedness; (iii) adoption and implementation of
restructuring plans for 5 of the largest PEs including cessation of
uneconomic activities and partial privatization; and (iv) a more efficient,
experienced, and sophisticated stock exchange.
The project's broader impact is to contribute to the shift in economic
activity from the public to the private sector through significant reductions
in the PE sector's drain on the exchequer, improvements in the enabling
and competitive environment, and rationalization of public service
regulation.
Project Description: Privatization/divestiture component: This component will finance and
mobilize the necessary expertise to: (a) strengthen the Economic
Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU), the entity charged with
implementing the Governrnent's privatization program; (b) privatize, or
bring to the point of sale, at least 20 PEs and liquidate a number of non-
viable PEs; (c) support the further development of the Capital Market
Authority and the Nairobi Stock Exchange; and (d) implement special
studies, training, and investment promotion activities.
PE reform component: This component will finance technical assistance
to (a) strengthen the Department of Government Investment and Public
Enterprises (DGIPE), the entity charged with taking the lead role in the
reform of public enterprises to be retained in the public sector; (b)
restructure 5 large PEs (Kenya Posts and Telecommunications



Corporation, Kenya Railway, Kenya Ports Authority, Kenya Tea
Development Authority, and National Cereals and Produce Board) through
funding of diagnostic studies and expertise to help DGIPE monitor,
coordinate, and facilitate the implementation of agreed target actions; (c)
design and administer a safety net for retrenched workers; (d) help DGIPE
implement sector wide reforms in the areas of corporate planning,
performance monitoring, and changes to the policy framework; and (e)
carry out complementary reforms in the Office of the Auditor General
(State Corporations) to improve auditing and oversight functions, the
Registrar General's Department to improve data bases and information
management, and the Attorney's General's Office to design reforms in the
regulatory/legal framework.
Benefits:           The main benefits of the proposed project are those that would accrue
from implementation by the Government of an efficient, transparent and
sustainable parastatal reform program. These would include: (i)
improvements in allocative and productive efficiency which would raise
employment and incomes over the long run; (ii) enhancement of
investment opportunities for the private sector which could attract
additional foreign investrnent; (iii) divestiture of parastatals and
improvements in the performance of PEs that remain in state hands would
increase the Government's net worth and improve its budgetary situation;
and (iv) separation of regulatory from commercial functions to level the
playing field between the public and private sectors.
Risks:              The main risks associated with the operation are: (i) Government
adherence to agreed policy changes; and (ii) inability or disinterest by the
local market and foreign investors to absorb divested assets. As part of a
strategy to deal with these risks the Project seeks to ensure that (a) the
institutional setup and implementation capacity is adequate to meet the
needs of the proposed reform program, (b) agreed procedures provide
safeguards to ensure the transparency of the divestiture process, and (c)
design of the components of the TA, and the monitoring process
(including mid-term reviews) will facilitate the implementation of a
comprehensive program of reforms including critical changes in the
legal/regulatory/policy frameworks. In addition, Government is
committed to implementing a safety net mechanism to minimize the
transitional costs for displaced labor. To deal with a cautious market, the
Government will need to focus on ensuring some early privatization
successes to enhance credibility among private investors and implement
complementary policies to improve the enabling environment for domestic
and foreign investors.



- iii -
ESIIMATED PROJECT com
Local k/    Foteign3     Tota
Privatization ComDonent
A. Institutional support                    1,100       1,530      2,630
of which:
Incremental operating costst          (1,100)     (1,160)    (2,260)
Marketing Campaign                                  (370)      (370)
B.  Support to divestiture actions              -       9,435      9,435
C.  Studies/consultants/training                -        748        748
D. Capital market support                       -        330        330
Component subtotal                           11,100      12.043     13.143
II.   PE Reform Component
Support to:
A. Sector-wide reform actions                   -       3,445      3,445
B.  Restructuring of 5 target PEs               -       8,340      8,340
C.  Safety net                                  -       1,009      1,009
D. Institutional Support (DGIPE)            1,862       2,542      4,404
of which:
Incremental operating costs:          (1,862)       (202)    (2,064)
Consultant services/training                      (2,340)    (2,340)
E.  Related institutional support               -       1,484      1,484
of which:
Incremental operating costs:                        (500)      (500)
Consultant services/training                        (984)      (984)
Component subtotal                                       16 820     18.682
PROJECT TOTAL                                     28.863     31.825
3/ Includes contingencies estimated at 10% of base costs.
kl Converted at KSh 30/US$.
f/ Logistical/operational support, vehicles and supplies, and local personnel costs.



- iv -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$'0O0)
GOK      IDA      ODA      EEC I/    UNDP  Netherlnds I/  Total
I. Privaizaion Component
A. Institutional support,  1,102    1,528                                               2,630
of which:
Incremental operating
cost:                  (1,102)  (1,158)                                            (2,260)
Marketing campugn:              ( 370)                                              (370)
B. Support to divestiture           8,955      -        480                             9,435
actions
C. Studics/consultants                748      -        -                                748
training
D. Capitl murket support     -        330                          =          _          330
Component Subtotal         1,102   11,561               480        -                   13,143
11. PE RefoTm Component     _
A. Sector-wide reform        -       1,575    1,740     -          130      -           3,445
actions
B. Restructuring of 5 target  -     8,340      -        -           -       -           8,340
PEs
C. Safety nct                -        360      649      -           -       -           1,009
D. DGIPE, of which:        1,862      -       1,792     -          270     480          4,404
Incremental operating
costs:                 (1,862)           ( 202)                                    (2,064)
Consultnt
services/taining:                        (1,590)             ( 270)  ( 480)        (2,340)
e. Related institutions,             1,484                                              1,484
of which:
Incremental operating
costs:                          (500)                                               (500)
Consultant
services/training:              ( 984)                                              ( 984)
Component Subtotal         1,862   11,759    4,181                 400     480         18,682
PROJECT TOTAL              2,964   23,320    4,181      480        400     480         31,825
1/ Have indicated intention of contributing directly to safety net fund to be set up.
Econoniic Rate
of Return:Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: 11248-KE



I. TIE ECONOMY1
1.1    Kenya is a low-income country which had a per capita income of $340 in 1991. Its
population growth rate has fallen to 3.6 percent but this remains one of the highest in the world.
Some three quarters of the country is classified as arid or semi-arid (ASAL). The economy is heavily
dependent on agriculture, which employs about 80 percent of the labor force and contributes more
than one quarter of GDP. Coffee and tea account for close to one half of merchandise exports. The
service sector accounts for about 45 percent of GDP and is an important source of employment. It
includes tourism which in recent years has become Kenya's leading foreign exchange earner. The
manufacturing sector is relatively developed and diversified, contributes about 12 percent of GDP and
employs close to 8 percent of the labor force. The sector, however, has been producing mainly for
a protected domestic market. Parastatals account for about one quarter of the value added in
manufacturing, and 11 percent of GDP.
1.2    Four phases can be distinguished in Kenya's economic performance since Independence in
1963: (a) rapid growth and low inflation in the first decade until 1973; (b) slower growth and rising
inflation during 1973-80, due to adverse terms of trade and the emergence of structural and policy-
induced constraints in agriculture and manufacturing; (c) serious macroeconomic imbalances and low
growth during 1980-85, caused mainly by the second oil shock in 1979, the erosion of fiscal
discipline and a severe drought in 1984; and (d) renewed economic growth during 1986-90, largely
the result of structural reforms and progress toward stabilization. However, 1991 saw renewed
destabilizing fiscal pressures, a weaker reform effort and slower growth. Fiscal discipline improved
by mid-1992 but monetary expansion has continued and performance on structural reforms has been
mixed.
1.3    A detailed discussion of the recent developments in the economy and the Bank Group's
assistance strategy is provided in the companion Memorandum and Recommendation of the President,
report P-5832-KE.
This report consists of two volumes. The Staff Appraisal Report (Volume I) and an Implemertation Volume
(Volume 11), is designed to facilitate project implementation.



II. THE PARASTATAL SECTOR IN KENYA
& RECENT PERFORMANCE
A. BACKGROUND
2.1          In Kenya, as in most developing countries, the period after independence was marked
by a deliberate policy of direct participation by the Government in production and trade. A variety
of social, economic and political objectives were set, including rapid development, the redress of
regional imbalances, increased participation by Kenyan citizens in the economy, and the promotion
of indigenous entrepreneurship. In addition to Government's desire to participate directly in the
production and trade sectors of the economy, private investors (particularly foreign) sought
government participation in joint ventures to ensure continued government support for such ventures.
Later, some of the wholly or partly privately-owned enterprises were acquired by the Government
in the process of attempts to rescue collapsing firms including converting outstanding debts or tax
liabilities to equity. Yet another category of parastatals, the Development Finance Institutions (DFIs),
were mandated to provide financing for development of projects unable to obtain financing from
conventional private sector sources. As the DFIs failed to recycle their investments, they became
holding  companies by  default.   Similarly, investments made by  the  Government in
enterprises/ventures requiring risk capital resources or where local investors lacked necessary
entrepreneurial skills at the time of independence, becaame permanent holdings by the Government
for a lack of a conscious effort to divest those investments to citizens as they became wealthier and
acquired more sophisticated business skills and hence those constraints became less relevant.
2.2          During the 1970s it became increasingly apparent that state participation in the
economy had grown well beyond Government's original intentions. Furthermore, a large debt
exposure among parastatal enterprises resulted in their increased financial vulnerability. Operating
losses and inadequate returns on parastatal investments further eroded the already weak capital bases
of these enterprises. Administrative and regulatory interventions, introduced to protect ailing
parastatals became an additional constraint to economic expansion and adversely affected the ability
of the economy to create jobs and improve living standards since higher efficiency was not demanded
from these favored firms. Other regulatory initiatives, such as marketing boards, by intervening in
the marketing and payment system further stifled private sector activity and entrepreneurial initiatives.
2.3          The 1982 report of the Working Party on Government Expenditures found that the
Government's investment in state enterprises (about $1.4 billion) had earned an average rate of return
of only 0.2 percent. When 12 public enterprises carne under scrutiny two years later, they were
found to be unable to meet their full overhead costs. A subsequent review of 16 major agricultural
and agro-based state corporations estimated aggregate losses during 1977-84 equivalent to $183
million at 1986 exchange rates. Indeed, other studies of selected groups of state enterprises echoed
findings of economic inefficiency and financial weakness.
2.4          More recent data, discussed below, suggests that the performance of the sector, which
is now large and dominates many sectors of the economy, continued to deteriorate over 198690.
It is clear that previous attempts at reforms during the 1980s have not been able to reverse the decline
in performance. Important lessons can be learnt from reviewing the effectiveness of past efforts to
reform the PE sector in Kenya and also by comparing this experience with that of other countries,
especially in Africa. These lessons have influenced the approach the Government has taken in its
latest initiatives in implementing parastatal reform (see Part m of this report) as well as the design
of the proposed Project (see Part IV).



-3 -
B. MAJOR FEATURES OF THE SECTOR
2.5           In December 1991 there were 2552- commercially-oriented enterprises-producing
goods and services for a profit-in which the Government of Kenya held an equity share holding
(Figure 2.1). In just over half of these the Government was the majority equity holder. Equity was
held by the Government either directly (51) or indirectly (204) through majority-owned DFIs. Such
commercially-oriented enterprises in which the Government has a minority or majority shareholding
are broadly referred to as "public enterprises", "PEs", or "parastatals" (although strictly speaking this
terminology is restricted to enterprises in which the Government is a majority of the equity). The
commercial activities of the parastatals are as diverse as horse breeding, consulting, retailing,
entertainment (a movie theater), and the operation of an international airline. But the largest single
economic activity of parastatals is manufacturing, particularly of food and beverages. In 1990, 60
percent of the enterprises were in manufacturing and mining, 18 percent in distribution, 15 percent
in finance, with the rest in transport, other services and electricity. As a result of liquidations, by
July 1, 1992, the number of parastatals had declined to 240 and these are listed in Annex A.2.
2.6           Most of the parastatals are medium-sized enterprises employing under 500 persons
each. The largest PEs, employing over 2000 employees and accounting for 10 percent of the PEs,
are in manufacturing, mining, transportation and communications and are majority owned by the
Government. Among minority-owned enterprises, 87 percent employ fewer than 500 persons. In
terms of total employment, there are around 170,000 employees spread over the 240 public
enterprises; over 90,000 (54 percent) of these are employed in the 8 largest PEs.
2.7           During 1986-90, the parastatal sector consistently accounted for around 11 percent
of GDP and 16 percent of gross capital formation. The contribution of majority-owned enterprises
was equivalent to 9.1 percent of GDP while minority-owned enterprises generated 2.3 percent of
GDP. Among majority-owned enterprises, transport and communications was the largest contribution
followed by wholesale/retail trade and manufacturing. Among minority-owned firms, manufacturing
and mining made the largest contribution to GDP, followed by wholesale/retail trade.
C. RECENT PERFORMANCE AND NEED FOR REFORMS
2.8    Performance of the parastatal sector has continued to deteriorate since earlier studies (para
2.3). This is indicated by more recent data on parastatal performance for the period 1986-90 in the
areas of productivity growth, contribution to the budget deficit, indebtedness, and export
performance. Y'
v      A number of these firms are at various stages in the process of liquidation. The count will change as finrs
are wound up.
3/     Kenya: Re-Investing in Stabilization and Growth Through Public Sector Adjustmcnt, World Bank Report No.
9998-KE, January 10, 1992.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ...............  ..........
11F                                                                                  | 



-5-
2.9           Productivity growth During 1986-90, the productivity of the sector (as measured
by the difference between the rates of growth of value added and factor inputs - labor and capital)
worsened by about two percent annually. In contrast, the productivity of the private sector improved
by around five percent annually during the same period. Overall value added by the parastatals grew
at the same pace as rest of the economy but the sector was inefficient in its use of resources and
employed a disproportionately large amount of resources-especially labor and capital-in the process.
IDA estimates show that GDP growth during the period could have been as much as two percentage
points higher per year if productivity in the parastatal sector had been the same as that of the private
sector. Such higher productivity would cut the time for doubling Kenya's per capita income from
approximately 35 years (if GDP growth continues at historical levels) to around 17 years.
2.10         Contribution to the budget deficit. The net outflow from the Central Government
budget to parastatals was equivalent to at least one percent of GDP in FY91, mainly reflecting debt
service payments assumed by the Government and taxes collected but not remitted to the Treasury.
The size of the subsidy provided to the sector (including indirect benefits arising from such
instruments as loans made at below market interest rates) is not known; estimates of the level of
these subsidies will be derived in a study which is being commissioned using project preparation
funds from the proposed Project.
2.11         Indebtedness Significant external debts were incurred by just over a dozen majority-
owned firms. Most were guaranteed by the Central Government directly while a few enjoyed
guarantees provided by government-owned domestic banks. In general, these loans bore commercial
rates and thus are more burdensome than comparable Central Government borrowing.
2.12         Export performance The parastatal sector contributed less than five percent of
merchandise exports, despite the availability of export incentives and a concentration of parastatals
in manufacturing. During 1990, about 40 parastatals accounted directly for approximately one-third
of the trade deficit although they were, of course, not the sole users of some of the items-notably
oil, sugar-which they imported.
2.13         Overall, the above mentioned study showed that a re-allocation of productive
resources from the parastatal sector could produce static and dynamic efficiency gains. This is
because the productivity deficit economy-wide appeared to be greatest among majority-owned
enterprises. Moreover, although minority-owned enterprises did better, the change in their total
factor productivity was less than the national average and well-below the private sector (the rest of
the economy excluding the Central Government). Accordingly, the static efficiency gains are likely
to be largest from the majority-owned subsector. This could also have a significant direct impact on
the budget deficit.
D. PAST EFFORTS TO IMPLEMENT REFORMS AND LESSONS LEARNT
2.14         The Government has made a number of attempts to improve performance in the
sector. In 1979, following the publication of a Government report on statutory bodies, the Parastatal
Advisory Committee was formed. At the same time, Government enlarged the role of the
Inspectorate of Statutory Boards in the Office of the President, which served as a trouble-shooting,
management audit and consulting service for parastatals. Later, in 1982, Government released the
findings of a Working Party on Expenditure, which detailed many serious deficiencies in the financial



-6 -
and economic performance of parastatals. That report suggested a series of reforms - many of which
were eventually enacted and are discussed below - and raised the possibility of reducing the role of
the state and replacing it with increased private sector activity.
2.15         During the period 1986-90, the Government, with IDA support, initiated measures
to reduce the scope of public sector intervention in the economy through market-oriented
liberalization measures in the areas of agriculture, industry, trade and finance. Under the auspices
of two IDA adjustment operations (ISAC and FSAC) support was provided for the development of
capital markets and the establishment of the Capital Market Authority to support divestiture programs.
Furthermore, in 1990, the Government initiated (with IDA financing from the Financial Parastatals
TA Project) a programme of adjustment for the two major development finance institutions in the
economy - the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) and the Industrial and Commercial Development
Corporation (ICDC); this programmne includes specific actions with respect to the divestiture of state-
owned assets. The Government has also initiated reform measures (with support in most cases from
IDA through specific projects) to restructure Kenya Airways, Kenya Railways, National Cereals &
Produce Board (NCPB), Cotton Lint & Seeds Marketing Board (CLSMB), East African Sugar
Industries, Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), the Coffee Board, and parastatal textile mills,
as part of its case by case approach.
Implernentation experience and lessons learnt
2.16         Despite the initiatives taken by the Government during the 1980s, progress toward
reform of the parastatal sector has been slow and uncoordinated. The Government's past efforts to
reform the parastatal sector have followed a firm by firm approach and been limited to strengthening
control mechanisms and the accountability of managers in the short term. Lacking an overall
framework for reforms, initiatives have tended to follow particular crises and have been ad-hoc in
nature, often involving management changes and directives for short-term performance improvements.
The continuing deterioration in the performance of the sector in recent years, as discussed in Section
C above, as well as the adverse impact of parastatal operations on private sector enterprises, bear
witness to the failure of past reform initiatives; the significant adverse impact of the PE sector on
private sector development (PSD) through, among other things, the absence of a 'level playing field"
for markets and resources has been demonstrated and documented in the parallel IDA study on PSD
in Kenya nearing completion. The Bank's experience on specific projects mentioned in the previous
paragraph has followed a similar pattern; performance on components pertaining to reform of specific
PEs has been generally poor and project objectives have in most cases not been met there.
2.17         A number of factors have contributed to the failure of past reform efforts. Perhaps
the most important has been the absence of a credible and comprehensive reform program with a
vision of what the program would entail, how it would be designed and implemented, and what would
be the eventual role of the PE sector relative to the private sector. Moreover, in the past, the
approach has been to aim for efficiency gains whilst retaining Governmuent ownership, rather than
divesting firms to the private sector: The main lesson of the Bank's experience in privatization is that
private ownership itself makes a difference. In the Bank's experience in different LDCs, some state-
owned enterprises have been efficient and well-managed for some periods, but government ownership
has seldom permitted sustained good performance over more than a few years. There is a higher



-7-
probability of efficient performance in private enterprise, and that needs to be considered in choosing
whether to invest public funds in SOEs - or in other programs. Based on the above considerations,
some of the key elements of a program which have been missing partly or completely in past
initiatives in Kenya are:
(i) a policy framework for implementing reforms in areas where there are major deficiencies
in existing policies, laws, and regulations including: (a) lack of transparency and
accountability in relations between Government agencies and PEs, (b) inefficiencies .nd
conflicts involved in allowing PEs to combine their commercial activities with regulatory and
non-commercial functions, (c) distortions in the existing regulatory framework which prov.des
preferential treatment to PEs relative to private firms in some key sectors, (d) absence of
procedures and systems for promoting financial discipline in PEs to reduce their dependence
on Government subsidies, and (e) lack of policies and procedures for ensuring transparency
in the selection of PEs for divestiture and their subsequent sale;
(ii) institutional arrangements for spearheading reforms which (a) give adequate authority
and legitimacy to an appropriate entity to implement sensitive reforms involving ministries
and PEs with a significant degree of political and economic power, and (b) insulate the entity
from political interference. A major weakness in past reform efforts by the Government
relates to ambiguities regarding the institutional responsibilities for leading and coordinating
reforms. There was considerable overlap and duplication of institutional responsibilities
regarding the oversight function for parastatals. In addition to the line ministries, the
responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the performance of PE's was, to varying degrees,
also carried out by the Government Investment Division (GID) at the Ministry of Finance,
the Permanent Secretary (State Corporations) at the Office of the President, a Parastatal
Advisory Committee (PAC), and the DFI's.
(iii) a communication strategy (e.g. workshops, seminars, and other instruments) for
producing a consensus and political support for reforms and to overcome obstacles to
change;
(iv) arrangements for a safety net for redundant workers;
(v) a program for developing institutional capacity for managing and implementing the
reform program ; and
(vi) development of a credible program of reforms, including privatization, whose scope,
coverage, and time bound objectives (including up-front actions in the case of specific IDA
projects) reflect the Government's commitment to change.
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE IN TA PROJECTS
2.18          The design of the proposed TA Project has benefited from experience in implementing
similar projects in Sub-Saharan Africa as well as previous TA projects in Kenya. The key lessons
include: (i) the importance of a link between the degree of Government commitment to the TA project
in question and parallel (as well as subsequent) adjustment operations; (ii) the need to support in-
country training programs based on borrower needs and resources and to limit overseas training to



-8-
justifiable exceptions; (iii) the importance of clearly defining the responsibilities of any project
implementation units, (iv) providing systematic and adequate supervision with appropriate technical
expertise, (v) avoiding where possible the use of expatriates (funded from the project) in line
management positions and instead using arrangements whereby a Kenyan manager works closely
with, and learns from, the expatriate advisor, and (vi) building in flexibility to modify the project
during implementation rather than setting up a rigid 'blueprint approach' more suited to capital
investment projects.



III. THE PROGRAM FOR PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
& PRIVATIZATION
A. INTRODUCTION
Background
3.1          In November 1991, the Government of Kenya (GOK) announced a comprehensive
framework and strategy for Parastatal Reform. In addition it announced its intention to divest its
interests in a preliminary list of 207 public enterprises (PEs) through a competitive and transparent
process. While these and other related measures taken by the Government are impressive initiatives
and reflect its renewed commitment to reform and adjustment to economic realities, they need to be
translated into a more detailed work program and appropriate procedures and processes for
implementing a successful and credible program of privatization and public enterprise reform.
Previous experience in Kenya, as discussed in Part II above, has shown that implementation will be
a difficult task and the implementing agencies will need to have sufficient institutional and political
support to overcome the many obstacles to change. In addition institutional structures are needed
with adequate technical and managerial expertise to formulate, implement, and coordinate a complex
undertaking and cope with the many sensitive issues, including questions about redundancies and
safety nets, that will arise in connection with implementation. At the same time careful attention has
to be given to the selection of PEs for privatization and restructuring so that public support for the
program can be developed on the basis of early and visible success. Finally, success from both the
public and donor point of view, will also hinge critically on the transparency of the policies and
procedures used to implement the program.
3.2          Taking the above concerns into account, the Government of Kenya, during the course
of the preparation and appraisal of this proposed Project, has outlined more details of its reform
program. These details are outlined in this chapter which is divided into the following aspects of the
reform program: (i) privatization program, (ii) public enterprise reforms, and (iii) reforms of other
related institutions.
Objectives and scope of the reform program
3.3          The main objectives of the reform prograrn are (i) to improve the efficiency of the
use of Kenya's scarce resources and stimulate economic growth and job creation through making both
the private sector and PEs more competitive and more responsive to market signals and commercial
criteria; (ii) to enhance the role of the private sector in the economy through the increased transfer
of responsibilities for the production of goods and services from the public to the private sector;
(iii) to reduce and streamline the PE sector through the sale of commercial public sector
enterprises/activities to the private sector, restructuring of essential enterprises, and the liquidation
of non-viable enterprises/activities; and (iv) to improve the regulatory environment and enhance the
efficiency and management of firms to be retained in the public sector, and separate the commercial
and regulatory functions of government-owned enterprises.
3.4          The two instruments that the Government intends to use to achieve these aims are a
public enterprise reform program (PERP) and a privatization program. Details of these two programs
are outlined in Annex A. 1 which reproduces the policy paper that the Government published on July
1, 1992, as agreed upon at appraisal.



- 10-
3.5          Of the 240 PEs in which the Government holds ownership, the Government has
designated 33 PEs (see Annex A.2.1) as 'strategic' enterprises and intends to retain its ownership
and active Board participation in them for the time being. The remaining 207 PEs (see Annex A.2.2)
have been classified as 'non-strategic' enterprises and they constitute the Government's privatization
program. Out of the 207 enterprises, the Government has selected 45 PEs (see Annex A.3) to begin
the first phase of the privatization program, leaving 162 PEs to be processed in a subsequent phase.
3.6          The scope of the PERP will cover the following: (a) the 33 PEs deemed to be
strategic, the core activities of which will be retained in the public sector - of this total, 5 enterprises
with major impact on the economy and Government finances have been selected for early
restructuring (see Section C below); and (b) the 162 PEs, as mentioned above, that are targeted for
later privatization and will meanwhile be made as efficient as possible. It is to be noted here that
GOK defines PEs as 'strategic' if they provide essential services or are considered to play a key role
from the view point of national security, health, and protection of the environment. A review of the
list of 33 PEs indicates that a number of them do not fit obviously into the strategic category. The
latter include the 2 major DFIs (Industrial Development Bank of Kenya, and Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation) as well as the Nyayo Buses Corporation.
B. THE REFORM PROGRAM FOR PRIVATIZATION
3.7          There are 3 major aspects of the reform program for privaization: (1) basic policies,
procedures and institutional arrangements, (2) the privatization work program, and (3) strengthening
of capital markets and private sector development.
(1) Basic Policies, Procedures and Institutional Arrangements
3.8          The main policy and strategy issues concern sustainabilityof the privatizationprocess.
The sustainability of the divestiture process is linked in part to the scope and speed of the program
since experiences elsewhere have shown that rapid, large scale divestiture is unlikely, owing to the
complexity of the process and limits on the absorptive capacity of local financial markets. GOK is
also aware that success of the privatization program is critically dependent on the public's acceptance
and participation. As a result, maintaining high and growing levels of public support for privatization
over an extended period is an objective for the program. To elicit and maintain public support, GOK
has recognized that transparency should be a governing principle of the parastatal reform program
and has launched a close dialogue with the private sector, as well as labor unions, and mounted a
publicity campaign to stimulate interest in the sale of assets and shares. To further reinforce the
objective of transparency, the policy paper referred to above explains how transparency will be
ensured in practice in the process of privatizing PEs. IDA has reviewed and agreed with GOK on
the set of institutional arrangements, principles and procedures contained in the paper which will
guide GOK's efforts especially in the critical early phase of the program.
3.9          IstitutIonal Arrangements. In order to achieve the Government's objectives for
the privatization component of the above mentioned pro-. am, the President has appointed a high level
policy-making body called the Parastatal Reform Program Committee (PRPC) under the
Chairmanship of the Vice President. The functions of the PRPC are to (a) supervise and coordinate
the implementation of the Parastatal Reform Program in general; (b) determine priorities and
sequencing of sales; (c) approve operational guidelines for privatization to be followed by the



- 11 -
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU) (see below), including criteria and procedures to
be followed in divestiture decisions; (d) give final approval for divestiture actions (reasons justifying
any rejections to be recorded in the Minutes); (e) monitor and evaluate program implementation; and
(f) provide political impetus for privatization and participate in building public awareness and a
national consensus in support of the government program. The PRPC, as originally constituted, did
not include any representatives of the private sector. Prior to negotiations, GOK submitted evidence
to IDA that a Presidential Order had been issued to reconstitute PRPC to include 5 private sector
representatives of its 13 ex-officio members, the others being the Minister of Finance (Chairman),
Governor of Central Bank, Executive Director of ESTU, Head of DGIPE, Head of Civil Service,
Permanent Secretary (Treasury), Attorney General, and Auditor General (State Corporations).
3.10          The management, coordination and implementation of the divestiture program, as
approved by the PRPC, will be the responsibility of the ESTU, which acts as the secretariat of the
PRPC. The functions of the ESTU are to (a) formulate and recommend divestiture policies,
procedures, programs and guidelines; (b) prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies
where applicable, target lists of privatization candidates for PRPC approval; (c) prepare PEs for
privatization and monitor all technical privatization-related consultant activities including valuation,
selection of privatization method and sale techniques, preparation of prospectus or offering
memorandum, elaboration of marketing plan, identification of financing options, etc.; (d) organize
bidding process, receive, evaluate offers and proposals and prepare recommendation to PRPC; and
(e) in collaboration with the Capital Market Authority (CMA), carry out all activities related to public
issuance of shares including appointrnent of intermediaries, lawyers, etc. It was confirmed at
negotiations that the Presidential Order reconstituting PRPC also provided an appropriate legal
mandate for ESTU to fulfill the divestiture objectives and act as an autonomous executing unit
insulated from political interference.
3.11          Princdpies of Privatization. The principles that will guide the privatization process
are consistent with the objectives of transparency, a level playing field for all participants in the
process, and creation of a competitive market environment. The main principles are: (a) enterprises
will be divested into competitive markets - purchasers will not obtain an intact or unregulated
monopoly; (b) purchasers will not be accorded special protection or access to credit on concessionary
terms; (c) where Government retains a minority shareholding, it will not exercise any special voting
rights except in limited, and well defined policy are-; (d) there will be a moratorium on new
government investments in enterprises that are to be privatized; (e) no specific class of potential
purchasers will be excluded from participating in the process; and (f) all transactions will be
conducted in a transparent manner including: disclosure to potential investors of all relevant
information on the enterprise to be sold, publication of bidding procedures and criteria for bid
evaluation, public opening of bids, public disclosure of winning bid and conditions of sale,
availability in the public domain of valuation of assets and details of all offers received.
3.12          In addition the principles articulated in the policy paper make clear that no direct sale
or negotiations by private treaty will be entertained except after publicly solicited bids have been
obtained. Moreover, even though the legal framework, as it currently exists does not provide any
impediments to the overall process of privatization (see para 3.16 below), a review of the regulatory
framework will be carried out as each PE is offered for sale to ensure that there are no specific legal
or regulatory impediments to privatization in individual cases. At the same time, to reinforce the
credibility of the reform program, the policy paper confirms that no new PEs will be established in



- 12 -
the productive sector except for investments made purely for venture capital assistance through the
DFIs.
3.13         Guidelines for the Process of Privatization. The guidelines for the whole process
of privatization including criteria for the selection of PEs for privatization, methods of divestiture,
preparation of the PE for sale, and finally the execution and implementation of the divestiture
transaction are outlined in more detail in the policy paper. The guidelines are aimed at ensuring that
each divestiture transaction adheres to a standard set of procedures that is both transparent and subject
to public scrutiny. The guidelines recognize that each divestiture transaction is likely to have certain
aspects which differ from all others and, therefore, the guidelines will be used flexibly rather than
as a fixed set of rules and regulations. It was agreed that at the end of this process, a brief report
will be generated to record the fulfillment of the privatization principles in chronological order. This
will usually include minutes of the public opening of bids and a copy of the announcement of bid
opening date and place, to which all bidders were invited.
3.14         Methods of Privatization. For the sake of transparency, to minimize the influence
of special interests, and to protect the integrity of the GOK's privatization program, the ESTU will
use any of the privatization methods outlined in the policy paper. These include: (a) public offering
of shares on the Nairobi Stock Exchange; (b) negotiated sales insofar as preemption rights exist and
have been exercised; (c) sale of enterprise assets (including liquidation); (d) employee/management
buy-out; and (e) leasing or award of management contract. The choice of option will be determined
by the ESTU according to the objectives pursued by the Government for each sale, the PEs'
performance and economic prospects, and the size of the PEs and the potential for mobilizing private
funds. The GOK also intends to review further the use of alternative techniques of privatization
which will facilitate wider public ownership of shares including (a) creating a package of shares in
PEs being privatized in the form of a mutual fund, and (b) using vouchers that could be exchanged
for shares in mutual funds along the lines of similar programs in some Eastern European Countries.
3.15         Legal Framework for Privatization. Parastatal enterprises in Kenya take several
forms. They are either created by their own enabling legislation, under the State Corporations Act
or are registered under the Companies Act. The Government either has direct shareholding in some
of these parastatal enterprises or indirect shareholding through other Statutory bodies. The State
Corporations Act, which was enacted in 1986, creates a regime for the control and supervision of
state corporations and also the procedures to be used by the President in creating new state
corporations. The provisions of the Act apply to those State Corporations already in existence, and
in which the Government has either direct or indirect, majority or whole holding. It also provides
for the ability of state corporations to be exempted from the Act through a Presidential Order.
3.16         There is no need for a specific privatization law as the legal framework, as it
currently exists, provides no impediments to the privatization process. There are no provisions in
the Constitution forbidding the Government's sale of assets. However, for those parastatals which
are established under their own enabling legislation, repeals of these Acts will be required. None of
the latter are currently in the privatization program. In addition, other changes to various laws will
be required to allow for the success of the reform process and privatization.
3.17          A review of the legal and regulatory framework is being undertaken, which, inter
alia, is assessing the legal aspects of privatization, the laws that are an impediment to an expanded
and invigorated private sector and the legal regime for parastatal enterprises. In addition, the review



- 13 -
will cover the statutory or other disincentives to the stimulation of a dynamic private and public
commercial sector. This review includes, inter alia, Kenyan laws on bankruptcy, insurance,
commercial laws, contracts, labor, Restrictive Trade Practices, Companies, State Corporations, tax,
foreign exchange control, property and other pertinent laws.
(2) The Privatization Work Program
3.18          Past Efforts at Divestiture. Over the past 4 years since January 1988 the GOK has
divested 26 companies. Almost all of these were liquidations through receivership. More recently,
in December 1991, receivers were appointed to liquidate 4 PEs, and another 4 companies were
advertised in the local media for sale by public tender and bids are now being evaluated. The
divestiture process used to-date appears to lack the required transparency to make them models for
future privatizations and took place before the establishment of the current reform program and the
publication of the policy paper on PE reform and privatization. Areas of deficiency included weak
or non-existent prospectuses, absence of well defined and publicized bid evaluation criteria, and
incomplete valuation reports of the PEs being divested.
3.19          Firms Selected for Privatization for FY93 & FY94.  The appraisal mission
reviewed ESTU's 1992/93 privatization program as approved by the PRPC. The exact number of
PEs to be privatized is subject to the absorptive capacity of the market and to how quickly the ESTU
can be staffed. It was agreed that GOK will privatize or bring to the point of sale4/ at least 20 of
the 45 approved by PRPC, and that for at least 10 out of these 20 cases the privatization transaction
would be completed by end-1994. The 20 PEs identified (see Table 3.1) meet the selection criteria
set out in the policy paper in that (a) they are attractive profitable concerns, (b) they would be sold
into generally competitive markets, and (c) there are no legal or institutional constraints that will
impede their sale. Out of the 20, GOK has a majority holding in 11 enterprises. A preliminary
revaluation of assets of the 20 privatization candidates as carried out by Coopers & Lybrand during
appraisal puts Government's holdings in them at about KSh 3.3 billion (see Annex A.3. 1) which is
higher than the historical valuation of assets and Government holdings shown in Table 3. 1.
3.20          It was also agreed that of the 20, a first group of 5 PEs will be privatized or brought
to the point of sale in the rest of 1992; an additional 10 in 1993; and finally 5 in the first half of
1994. The Government has indicated the possibility of including Kenya Airways in the list of PEs
identified for privatization during the next 2 years. Annex A.5 sets out draft terms of reference for
technical assistance in programming that action. Lastly, GOK has submitted to IDA an acceptable
listing and timetable for proposed PE liquidations during the course of project implementation (see
Annex A.13).
3.21          The concept of bringing PEs to the point of sale, as opposed to privatization, intends
to give flexibility to the GOK in meeting the proposed targets and deadlines for the completion of
sale. IDA believes that such deadlines provide purchasers with unfair bargaining advantages and can
even prompt hasty sale with a lot of concessions. However, in the privatization process there is
4/. Point of sale implies execution of audit and valuation, plan for strategy and modalities of sale, prepartion and
issuance of prospectuses or tender documents and of advertisements and notices.



TABLE 3.1
- 14 -
ii x |   E i  _  N  Wii j.  lici 
fl i}0s X X | 3  s  a S E w S
:48[ff   fil'l   1_t      ||  d |    IN
a   3 }      ]  X0  l    51 X|   X    00E



- 15 -
always a risk that some PEs will be offered for sale for a long period and either there is no market
response (i.e., in some cases that the enterprise is not viable) or the offers received are judged
unsatisfactory by the Government, based on high expectation or over valuation of the PE. The
Government will be well advised, after PEs are offered for sale and a certain period of time has
elapsed with no market response, either to require such enterprises to be re-valued (if the offer price
is the problem), or the voluntary winding-up of the enterprise.
(3) Strengthening of Capital Markets and Private Sector Development
3.22          Absorptive Capacity of Capital Markets.  A securities market can efficiently
transfer shares in state owned enterprises to private hands, only if it is active, well developed and
sound. Privatization can in turn, stimulate the development of securities markets by providing a large
supply of securities. If an appropriate policy environment and legal and regulatory framework are in
place such increases in supply can be expected to generate substantial demand from the general
public.
3.23          Discussions with a number of leading Kenyan institutional and retail investors
confirmed that there was sufficient demand and liquid funds to absorb the supply of securities which
are planned to be launched onto the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) under the privatization program.
Furthermore, there is a latent demand in the private sector for the investment in companies that are
planned to be disposed of by sale of assets. In terms of absolute demand it is estimated that there
is an absorptive capacity of Ksh 2 billion for equity privatizations over the next two years, more than
enough to absorb the shares floated in the course of the privatization program. Privatizations through
the capital market though should ensure that other investments will not be crowded out.
3.24          Constraints on Capital Market Authority (CMA). The main impediments to the
creation of synergy between the privatization program and the capital markets relate to the legal and
regulatory framework, the organizational structure of the NSE, issues relating to the valuation of
shares, the underwriting procedure and the capital markets infrastructure. Problems exist with
regards to the listing of firns as rules for listing are not clear and listing requirements are not
consolidated into one single document. Problems also exist regarding the ease with which private
individuals can buy and sell stocks; it can take upto 2-3 months to finalize transactions. These
constraints severely hamper the ability of the privatization program to tie into capital markets and can
make public flotations and the creation of employee stock ownership plans extremely time consuming
and complex. In this regard the NSE must go through a phase of institutional development in order
to support the existing privatization objectives and to promote free market business behavior in a
general sense. The following section discusses how the project will support the development of the
NSE.
3.25          NSE Development. To ensure that the privatization program envisioned will lead
to the development of the NSE it was agreed that 3 of the 5 companies identified for privatization in
1992 must be listed on the NSE, while others be offered through public auction to willing
entrepreneurs within Kenya. In addition, the project proposes to implement a technical assistance
program to streamline the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) Rules and Regulations. In particular
it will (a) change the CMA Rules, 1992, sections 31 and 9, in order to provide a framework that will
actually expedite the listing process rather than hinder it; and (b) develop a sample prospectus which
potential privatization candidates will be able to follow. The Government also feels it is important



- 16 -
to develop the brokerage business, such that the NSE and the capital markets as a whole develop in
line with the impending increase in business following implementation of the privatization program.
3.26         Private Sector Development (PSD). A major study is currently being carried out
by IDA on the key issues facing the Govermment in encouraging PSD. The conclusions of the study,
as contained in the draft report, are broadly consistent with the thrust of the Government's PE reform
program. The main recommendations emerging from the study are: (a) implementation of policies
which will enhance and sustain macroeconomic stability including reduction in the fiscal deficit to 2
percent of GDP, abolition of exchange controls and associated regulations, and reform of the
procedures and contents of the public investment program; (b) removal of all remaining price,
production, and marketing controls except on pharmaceuticals and certain industrial and service
sectors; (c) actions to reduce possible corruption and anti-competitive practices in public sector
procurement; (d) privatization of parastatals and removal of the monopoly power of most parastatals;
and (f) actions to modify the legal and regulatory framework to improve competition, reduce the
discretion in the interpretation and enforcement of laws, and enhance the administration of bankruptcy
proceedings.
C. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
3.27         There are 5 key aspects of the public enterprise reform program: (1) basic policy and
other aspects, (2) sector wide reforms, (3) actions for restructuring of major PEs, (4) design and
implementation of a safety net, and (5) institutional arrangements.
(1) Basic Policy and Other Aspects
3.28         Objectives and Scope. The objectives of the Public Enterprise Reform Program
(PERP) will be to (a) enhance PEs' efficiency and performance; (b) reduce the financial burden of
the sector on Government; and (c) achieve these objectives through moving PEs toward operating on
commercial principles through reforms that will enforce financial discipline, mobilize managerial and
financial autonomy and set up adequate accountability and appropriate incentives. Its scope will
comprise the 33 'strategic' PEs (including 5 selected for restructuring) and the 162 'nonstrategic
PEs targeted for later privatization (see para. 3.6 above).
3.29         Prindples of PE Reform. The PERP will be based on the principles detailed in the
policy paper. In sum these principles prescribe that PE operations will include only viable
commercial activities (and be fully compensated for the exceptional cases where GOK orders non-
commercial activities to be undertaken); be self-sustaining and apply a hard-budget constraint obliging
them to observe financial discipline with subsidies being phased out; be managed with maximum
autonomy; act competitively, with certain PEs operating as natural monopolies to be regulated by
autonomous bodies insulated from political interference; be carried out under the same legal
framework that is applicable to the private sector; and be performed in a transparent manner and
without benefit of special concessions or favored treatment.
3.30         GOK's ownership role over majority-owned PEs will be analogous to private sector
practice. In brief GOK will (i) select and appoint competent and qualified persons to PE boards
through a public and transparent process; (ii) provide PE managements with clear, non-conflicting
objectives; (iii) agree with managements on PE strategy; (iv) leave managements as free as needed
to achieve the objectives; (v) oblige managements to full and transparent accountability; and to this



- 17 -
purpose (vi) perform ex-post evaluations of management performance and apply such incentives and
sanctions as are merited by that performance. The entire procedure is incompatible with political
interference in day-to-day PE management matters.
3.31          Institutional Focus. The PERP's underlyingprinciples must be implemented through
institutional arrangements which will be simple; be clearly defined to stress transparency and
accountability; and avoid multiple and conflicting reporting lines. As the expanded successor entity
to the Government Investments Division (GID) in the Ministry of Finance (MOF), GOK has
established the Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises (DGIPE) in the same
Ministry. DGIPE is headed by a person of Permanent Secretary rank reporting to the Permanent
Secretary/MOF and is being given adequate authority to enable it to carry out effective oversight and
leadership of the PE reform process, and the permanent supervisory functions appropriate to
Government as owner. IDA has earlier made clear that its preferred option would be a fully
autonomous body located at supra-ministerial level. However, GOK's decision to set up DGIPE as
the principal mover of PE reform was considered acceptable under the proviso that (i) DGIPE's
performance would be evaluated after one year, and (ii) its location would be reviewed if
performance is not considered satisfactory. The U.K.'s ODA has committed itself to filling the key
position of Director of PE Reform by temporarily recruiting an external consultant for that position
until a suitable Kenyan could be recruited and/or trained for the position. Section (V) below further
details institutional arrangements and powers.
(2) Sector-Wide Reform Actions
1.    Actions to improve the legal and regulatory framework:
3.32          Review of Legal Framework Affecting PEs. The legal framework within which
PEs operate is complex.  As indicated above, a consultant review of the legal and regulatory
framework for, inter alia, PE reform is being executed in the context of a broader private sector
development study undertaken by IDA. Specifically the review will examine the present legal regime
governing PEs, with a view to bringing it in line with the principles of the reform program including
the modalities for separating commercial from regulatory functions of existing PEs. Further, the
review is expected to back up the government assurances given during appraisal, that it did not
perceive any legal impediments to effecting any legal and regulatory changes that might be needed
to provide DGIPE with the powers it needs to carry out its mandate.
3.33          Equity of Regulatory Impact. Past regulation of PEs and their competitors has been
opaque and erratic, generally protecting inefficient state producers rather than creating a level playing
field with the private sector. Most of the over 100 extant regulatory bodies are closely linked to
ministries or existing PEs and do not act independently. PEs obtain other financial and fiscal
advantages, including remission of taxes, access to cheap credit, and preferred status when bidding
for public sector contracts. The Program will rigorously reexamine and if necessary change or
eliminate the existing regulations that prejudice the competitiveness and efficiency of both public and
private enterprises and the equity of the conditions under which they operate. Draft terms of
reference for the review, planned for the first year after credit effectiveness, appear in Annex B. 16.
3.34          Public Service Regulation. The program will determine which PEs are to be
classified as public service PEs and will review the subject areas and manner in which it is considered
that their regulation should take place so as to assure the public of adequate quantity and quality of



- 18 -
service at least cost and protect it against abuses. The reviews will aim at reducing the applicable
regulatory task to its minimum required size and will recommend bodies to carry out the regulatory
tasks with the requisite independence from executive agencies of Government.
2.    Actions to Establish Financial Discipline:
3.35         Elimination of Subsidies. In addition to direct subsidies to a significant number of
PEs, there are also statutory or ad-hoc practices which have the effect of indirect subsidies, such as
remissions of taxes and duties and access to credit on preferential terms. Both lower PEs' efficiency
because they weaken their need to behave in a competitive manner. The Program proposes to
identify all subsidies in the context of other major financial flows to and from the PEs, and to
quantify their advantages to PE finances and conversely their negative effect on govermnent revenues.
On the basis of a thorough study the Program will draw up a plan to (i) discontinue indirect subsidies
or convert them into direct subsidies with the object of making them more transparent, and (ii) phase
out direct subsidies to viable PEs. Completion of the study and plan (draft TOR at Annex B.1),
acceptable to IDA, Is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.36         Elimination or Containment of Debts and Arrears. In order to free the sector from
long-standing cross indebtedness from arrears among PEs from other PEs and between Government
and PEs, the Program will review the state of such arrears and develop a plan for their phased
elimination. Measures wIll be taken to prevent recurrence of major cross-debt buildup in the future.
The review and plan will be part of a more comprehensive study of PE indebtedness (draft TOR at
Annex B. 17), to be carried within a year of credit effectiveness, which will establish the true levels
of the different types of PE debt and make detailed recommendations for improved debt management
practices and procedures.
3.    Other Sector-Wide Actions
3.37         Strengthening of Corporate Planning and Performance Contracts.  The
Government has targeted 5 PEs for restructuring in the first phase of the reform program (see below>.
These are: Kenya RaDways (KR); Kenya Ports Authority (KPA); Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC); Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), and National
Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). Of these only KR and NCPB have substantive corporate plans
but now need to implement them. KPTC, KPA and KTDA are working to refine and implement
existing internal management plans, but have done little to define their medium term strategy
including future relationship with government or to draw up sectoral plans including the regulatory
framework. In KPTC, detailed work is required on the modalities for splitting up Posts and
Telecoms. In KPA, the proposed strategy of increased containerization and contracting out certain
activities needs to be converted into a detailed action program. For ICDA, future government
strategy for the sector and for KTDA itself need to be framed carefully. At a broader level, it is also
planned to introduce performance contracts for all strategic SOEs; the process will initially focus on
the five target PEs, where such contracts already exist for NCPB and KR. The government signatory
to these contracts will be DGIPE which will also develop appropriate contract monitoring
mechanisms.
3.38         Monitoring and Planning. The Program will enhance accountability through an ex-
post PE performance monitoring system, linked to an incentive system for PE managers. This and
other management tools will be made possible and supported by a new Management Information
_   _   _   _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-- - -- - -



- 19 -
System. The Program, based in DGIPE, will oversee the broad-based introduction of corporate
planning by the PEs, starting with the 10 largest ones. In appropriate cases the Program will also use
performance contracts, in addition to their present utilization and based on the corporate planning
exercise to be introduced, to formulate mutual targets and obligations over a specific contract period
on both the side of the PE and that of Goverment. The aim is to advance materially in the
conclusion of such contracts for 5 major PEs in 1992 and 8 more in 1993.
3.39         Reform of Corporate Governance. In addition to reform principles and guidelines,
the policy paper contains an outline of the changes in corporate governance for PEs and in the
relations between Government and PEs that are considered to be at the heart of the PE reform
program. Such reforms are considered essential because they will regularize who selects, appoints
and dismisses board chairmen, board members, the CEO, and other senior managers; the composition
of the board; the respective roles and functions of the board, the CEO, DGIPE, sector ministries and
other agencies concerned with one or other aspect of PE operations; and the reporting and other
relationships of the above with each other. In light of GOK's recognition that these arrangements
will be crucial to the success of the reform program, they wIll be the subject of a thorough study,
at GOK request to be carried out by GOK, that will result in a detailed plan for the future system to
govern them. During the course of negotiations, discussions were held on the proposal presented
by the Government for the reform of corporate governance. The agreements reached on a revised
system of corporate governance are outlined in Annex B. 19.. Cabinet approval of the agreed reform
of corporate governance is a condition of credit effectiveness.
(3) Actions for Restructuring Major PEs
3.40         Restructuring actions will start with the following five of the largest PEs which are
all majority owned, account for the bulk of government transfers, and have a major impact on
Kenya's economy: Kenya Railways (KR); Kenya Ports Authority (KPA); Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC); Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), and National
Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). The factors leading to their selection as well as financial
indicators for them and the 7 other major PEs are shown, respectively, in Parts A and B of Annex
B.9.
3.41         Successful restructuring has only been achieved elsewhere when the owner makes
management fully realize that the costs of achieving change are less than those of resisting it. It will
only be achieved in Kenya if GOK acts accordingly and takes firm ownership of the restructuring
program, and is prepared to overcome the resistance inevitably offered by large, long-established
institutions. The restructuring actions contained in the program for the 5 selected PEs are based on
(a) recent and planned policy changes which aim at efficiency improvement, removal of government
financial and other support, and partial divestiture; and (b) improved monitoring and control from
DGIPE which will bring pressure on PEs to implement existing and new restructuring initiatives.
For each PE selected, Annex B. 10 summarizes the background, status of current restructuring
initiatives, planned actions and performance targets, and assesses the role which performance



- 20 -
contracts could play. Prior to credit negotiations, GOK presented to IDA, details of work programs
for the five selected PEs which included the following priority actions agreed at the time of appraisal:
KPTI C:      Decision in favor of separating Posts from Telecoms, agreement on TOR for
working group to this end; agreement on schedule of implementing Maxwell
Stamp study recommendations including Gilgil divestiture.
KTDA:        Agreement on TORs and timetable for sector review.
KR:           Completion of KR study on commercial railway system; agreement with IDA
on TOR for study to assess desirability of alternative locomotive maintenance
arrangements; and implementation of existing Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) to the effect that KR's loss-making services would be
suspended or that GOK would put in place a fully functioning system to
continually compensate KR for the cost of government-directed loss-making
services for as long as GOK directs that they be continued.
NCPB:         Commission of independent review of 1990/91 performance contract enabling
clear lessons to be drawn from that experience so as to achieve future
improvements.
These work programs which are outlined in detail in Annex B. 18 came out of 'scoping" studies (done
between appraisal and negotiations - draft TOR at Annex B. 11) which identified the specific and
practicable restructuring potential of each of the 5 selected PEs in a way that was not addressed by
the numerous earlier studies performed on them. The agreed work programs are based on the
recommended restructuring plans for each PE as outlined by the "scoping" studies. In essence, the
agreed work programs outline the key restructuring actions needed in each case (over the next 2
years) and their consequent requirements for technical and other assistance.
(4) Design and Implementation of a Social Safety Net
3.42          GOK has emphasized the importance it attaches to provision of redundancy packages
to assist retrenched workers. Real improvement of many 'strategic' and other PE operations will
depend on significant shrinkage of the work force. In addition, some buyers of privatization
candidates may also insist on prior staff reductions though the numbers are relatively much smaller.
The scope of the PERP's safety net has thus been defined to include all strategic as well as privatized
PEs excepting PEs with minority, non-controlling Government shareholdings, and PEs recently
privatized.
3.43          ODA consultants working with DGIPE have just completed Phase 1 of a detailed
study on options for the scheme. Findings, recommendations and a proposed workplan are
summarized at Annex B. 13. Major findings include the relatively small potential impact of PE
redundancies (approximately 5,000 each year), compared to a total entry of over 500,000 new job
seekers into Kenya's job market each year); and the importance of (i) identifying and "ring-fencing'
key staff; (ii) avoiding the 'revolving door" phenomena; and (iii) maintaining a positive work culture
in PEs whilst the exercise proceeds. Initial recommendations include a voluntary package which is
largely cash-based, with payments corresponding on average to around 3 years salary; this has now
been approved by GOK in outline and will be tested initially through two pilot exercises (KR's second



- 21 -
round of retrenchments and NCPB). A work program to set up a safety net retrenchment fund and
supporting initiatives for retraining and employment generation for all the 25 PEs (consisting of the
5 PEs targeted for restructuring over the next 2 years plus the 20 PEs selected for privatization over
the same period) is being prepared, including design, funding, administration and all related matters.
3.44         Although most administration aspects of the scheme will be delegated to PEs, an
ongoing central control function will be required. Even though DGIPE will initially be responsible
for that function, it could - given the sensitivity of the issues involved - absorb considerable senior
management time and may over the medium term be best handled by an agency other than DGIPE
which has other pressing tasks.
(5) Institutional Arrangements
3.45         Roles and Functions of DGIPE. DGIPE's main roles will be to lead the reform
process and to represent GOK's ownership function in regard to PEs and other equity investments
in all sectors. The first role comprises temporary tasks related to design and implementation of
reform actions; the second involves the permanent tasks of centrally monitoring and supervising the
performance of majority-owned PEs and monitoring of all other investments, carrying out effective
management of PE debts, and acting as accounting officer for all PEs' investments, debts and voted
funds. In addition DGIPE will have special tasks related to the social safety net program as just
discussed, at least in the immediate future. A detailed listing of all these DGIPE functions appears
in sections 13-18 of Part I of the policy paper. As agreed at appraisal, a DGIPE priority task is
the preparation within 6 months of credit effectiveness of a comprehensive 5-year PE Reform
Program and time-table embodying all relevant principles, actions and procedures stated in this
report; it was also agreed that this would be submitted to IDA for concurrence.
3.46         Role of Sector Ministries. The future role of sector ministries will mainly consist
of developing sectoral policies and programs. In that context they will contribute to PERP by
providing critical reviews of PE reform measures introduced and implemented by DGIPE, and on
corporate plans and other key documents of PEs operating in the respective sector ministries' sectoral
subject area. In these activities, the sector ministries' primary interest will be to help achieve
consistency between the PEs' actual or projected activities and the respective sectoral policies and
programs. The sector ministries will therefore send to DGIPE any comments they may have that
have a bearing on such consistency and if necessary will make any relevant suggestions towards
enhancing such consistency.
3.47         Roles of PE Boards and Executive Management. A basic purpose of PERP is to
introduce major changes in corporate governance so as to achieve (i) separation between ownership
and management functions, and (ii) enhanced management autonomy and accountability. PE boards'
functions and composition will therefore be redefined to reflect their character as the top organ of the
PE which also provides the interface with its owners. Boards will appoint top management and be
actively and closely committed to and involved with supervision of management and its operations;
individual board members will be limited as to the number of boards they may serve on. The
Government's system as a whole, will be based on the work described in para. 3.39 above.
3.48          Starting early in the reform process, boards will be expected (i) to participate in the
design of reform measures so as to make them effective in corporate practice, and (ii) to cause
executive managements to introduce relevant reform measures into day-to-day operations in a smooth



-22 -
and expeditious manner so as to produce the corresponding benefits as early as possible. Moreover,
just as it is up to DGPE to ensure that the right PE boards are in place to preside over the
introduction of the reform measures, it is up to the boards to have the right PE managers in place to
produce improved performance.
D. REFORMS FOR OTHER RELATED INSTITUTIONS
3.49         A number of other institutions affecting the environment in which PEs operate are
currently not performing adequately. The program is designed to remedy wealnesses in three of the
most important of these.
OMce of Registrar-General
3.50         The Registrar-General's Office (RGO) holds basic data on a large number of
companies. Its storage system is inadequate. This makes retrieval, updating and analysis difficult and
raises serious security issues. Detailed steps to be taken under the Program for gradual
computerization over a 2 year period have been agreed with the RGO. Annex B. 14 gives details of
these proposals. Improvement in the availability of company information is vital to encourage
commercial development, enabling rapid assessment of suppliers and purchasers, and increased
merger and acquisition activity.
Office of Attorney-General
3.51         The Attorney-General's office plays a key role in the public enterprise reform and
privatization program, as the government's legal adviser. This not only includes changes to various
laws that impact on the reforms but also advising the government on various aspects of the
privatizations and restructuring of strategic prastatals. The legislative burden on the Office during
the Program period is likely to be intense. There is currendy an absence both of suitably trained
lawyers (particularly those experienced in legislative drafing), and of logistics support such as
computers and photocopiers. The program will render assistance in both areas but with a focus on
corporate and regulatory issues and not on civil law.
Auditor General (State Corporatons)
3.52         Of the other govermnent agencies involved with PEs, the Office of the Auditor-
General (State Corporations) (AGSC) currently lacks the capacity to do more than audit about half
the PEs to full Kenyan audit standards; even then, many reports are qualified. PEs themselves often
cannot supply adequate data and are not required to respond effectively or quickly when their
accounts are unsatisfactory. Without adequat and timely accounting data, it is very difficult for
DGIPE to act effectively as owner of PEs, As PEs are now expected to operate in a more commercial
environment, and compete with private sector firms, the long term objective is for them to compete
on a level playing field, and be audited in an equivalent manner. This would most easily be achieved
through the employment of privte sector audit flrms. This objective can partally be met through
greater involvement of the private sectr either directly or through arrangements used in other
countries (for example, private sector fim  supervising the work of teams from the AGSC). Such
arrangements need further examination as does the possibility of improving the AGSC's capacity
through computerization, and training; draft terms of reference for such work are shown In Annex
B.15.



IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
4.1          Reducing the Government's role in the economy and more rapid development of the
private sector are essential steps for deepening the reform process and sustaining growth. In addition,
reducing parastatal claims on budgetary resources will be critical to the achievement of the
Govermment's stabilization aims. At the same time, the Government is keenly aware of the highly
political nature of the reforms it plans to undertake. In light of these political concerns, the
Government feels that a too-visible donor involvement, especially in setting the type of conditionality
that would have to be associated with an adjustment operation, would be difficult to sell politically
at the present time. However, the Government recognizes that it does not have the necessary
technical expertise to design and implement a comprehensive parastatal reform program. For this
reason, it has indicated that at this stage of the reform program it wishes only technical assistance
from IDA. Policy-based support could come at a later stage once the Government has demonstrated
to local constituencies that it fully owns the reform program and that it is not donor driven. The
sustainability of the program, especially given the difficulties such reforms have faced in the past,
will depend critically on (i) providing the necessary technical expertise (drawing on experience in
other countries), (ii) developing a program of reforms which is comprehensive in scope covering both
privatization and PE reform, and (iii) coalescing the domestic actors involved in the reform program,
ensuring transparency in implementation, and designing mechanisms to mitigate the adverse social
effects that would inevitably result from a parastatal reform program.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES
4.2    The main objective of the TA Project is to support the Government's parastatal reform
program by providing the technical, financial and institutional assistance required by the program
over the next 24 months. Specifically, the project is expected to help in laying the basis of a
successful and credible program of reforms which will improve resource allocation and increase
production efficiency through (i) divestiture of about 20 non-strategic PEs (out of 207) over the next
24 months; (ii) improving the efficiency and competitive environment for the 33 remaining strategic
PEs, and assisting with specific restructuring programs for 5 of the largest; (iii) separating the
commercial from the non-commercial/regulatory functions of regulatory bodies and government
departments; and (iv) improving the enabling and competitive environment for the parastatal and
private sectors, focusing particularly on streamlining the legal and regulatory framework. The
proposed TA project is expected to have outcomes which are significant not only in themselves but
also in their impact on Government finances and on the economy as a whole. By project's end (about
end-1996 or earlier), it is expected that:
*     at least 20 PEs will have been privatized;
*     a time-phased liquidation plan for uneconomic PEs, agreed by GOK and IDA, will
be in the process of implementation;
*     a policy on utilization of privatization proceeds, agreed by GOK and IDA, will be
in place and being implemented;
*     a system of PE corporate governance and government-PE relations, agreed by GOK
and IDA, will be in place that is largely analogous to best private sector practice,
eliminates political interference in running PEs, and provides performance incentives



- 24 -
and operational autonomy to PEs while laying down clear lines and criteria of
accountability;
*      action plans agreed by GOK and IDA for (a) phasing out direct and indirect subsidies
to PEs, and (b) dealing with excessive PE indebtedness (both intra-sectoral cross
debts and debts to GOK and other creditors), will be in process of implementation;
*     similarly agreed strategies and detailed work plans for restructuring the 5 major
selected PEs identified earlier will be operational and in course of execution,
including such key actions as separation of posts and telecommunications and
divestiture of the latter, cessation of uneconomic activities, and some degree of
privatization;
*     fully functioning and experienced institutions will be in place for pursuing subsequent
stages of both components of the parapublic reform program, as will be a more
capable, experienced and sophisticated Stock Exchange;
*     there wUI have been (a) significant reduction of the burden on the exchequer
constituted by the PE sector, and (b) concomitant increases in tax revenues due to
improved profitability of PEs and privatized firms;
*     there will have been substantial improvements in enabling environment brought about
inter alia by elimination of unnecessary and counter-productive regulations, reduction
of restraints to entry and exit, and the simplification and rationalization of public
services regulation; and
*     the above and related outcomes will have significantly contributed to the positive
momentum of a shift of emphasis in economic activity from the public to the private
sector.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.3    The proposed TA project would consist of a coordinated set of technical assistance
interventions over the next 2 years directed at both the parastatal sector and the enabling environment
for the parastatal and private sectors. Approximately 27 percent of the funds from the credit ($8.85
million) are designed to support institutional development and build capacity for implementing
reforms; another 13 percent ($4.19 million) cover the costs of studies, reviews, and data base
development (which directly or indirectly support institutional performance); and the remainder of
the funds (just under 60 percent, or $18.79 million) are for specialized technical assistance to support
the divestiture and restructuring of the selected public enterprises mentioned above (para. 4.2). The
project, which is outlined below in detail, will have two major components: (i) a
privatization/divestiture component, and (ii) a PE reform component. Annex A.8 contains a detailed
budget for both components.
Privatization Component
4.4           The project would fund expenditures aimed at supporting (a) development of ESTU
as an effective institution for implementing the Government's privatization program; (b) the
divestiture of specific PEs; (c) capital market development, and (d) specialized studies, publicity
campaigns, and training.



- 25 -
1.    Institutional support for ESTU
4.5           The ESTU urgently needs support to put into place an organizational structure that
will facilitate the privatization process. The organization structure of the ESTU is shown in Annex
A6. An Executive Director appointed by the President of the Republic, reports to the PRPC.
Currently the ESTU has a total of 9 staff, of which, 3 are at a senior professional level. By the time
the ESTU is fully staffed, it will remain a small organization having a total of about 16 professional
staff. The project will finance the services of an executive director, 8 professional staff, one
accountant for project management, and 5 research assistants. It will also fund logistical and
operational support for PRPC and ESTU, and a public dissemination campaign (including brochures,
other publicity materials and seminars) to build understanding and domestic consensus around the
reform/privatization program. The accountant will manage project accounts, monitor compliance with
Bank guidelines for the employment of consultants, and submit withdrawal applications to IDA. An
additional advisor on privatization will be financed by EEC. Prior to credit negotiations, of the
eight key professional positions detailed in Annexes A.6 and A.7 (excluding the executive directorship
which is filled), three had been filled and a fourth position was about to be finalized. It was agreed
at negotiations that at least six of these positions including those of the accountant would be filled by
credit effectiveness. It was also agreed during negotiations that GOK would fund the local
operational logistical expenditures of ESTU, amounting to approximately US$500,000 per year over
the life of the Project and make necessary budgetary allocations.  GOK has already enacted
budgetary allocations (amounting to US$250,000) for FY93; it was agreed that the remainder of
the agreed amount would be allocated to ESTU by the Ministry of Finance during the course of this
fiscal year. Project cost for this sub-component is estimated at $2.63 million.5/
2.    Divestiture of selected PEs
4.6           The project, as mentioned above, will provide support to privatize, or bring to the
point of sale, at least 20 PEs, out of the 45 approved by the PRPC, as detailed earlier. To facilitate
the divestiture transactions, the ESTU will need financing to set up Privatization Implementation
Teams (PITs) to prepare individual PEs for privatization. These will consist of short-term consultants
who will mobilize the advisory services of financial analysts, valuers, lawyers, engineers, and
industry specialists.  Technical assistance for preparing enterprises for privatization includes
diagnosis, review of legal requirements, financial restructuring, management analysis, definition of
strategic objectives and constraints, valuation, selection from among various forms of divestiture,
preparation of prospectus or tender documents and others. It is expected that support totaling 444
man-months will be provided for the period 1992 - 1994. At the request of the Government, the
budget for divestiture assistance includes a contingency, and the flexibility, for adding a few
additional PEs to the divestiture program to be supported by the TA project including Kenya
Airways, which is on the list 45 PEs earmarked for privatization in the policy paper but not included
in the list of 20. The project cost for this sub-component is estimated at $9.4 million.
4.7           As discussed in Part III, it was agreed during appraisal that of the 20 PEs selected
for divestiture under the proposed TA, 5 PEs will be privatized or brought to the point of sale by the
end of 1992; out of these 5, the Government submitted evidence that four firms had already been
brought to the point of sale; it was agreed during negotiations that at least one more PE would be
S/ AUl figures cited in the text include a 10 percent contingency allowance.



- 26 -
brought to the point of sale or privatized prior to Credit Effectiveness. The list of these 5 PEs (and
their method of sale) was agreed upon during appraisal: 3 of them will be sold through the Nairobi
Stock Exchange (East African Oxygen; CMC Packaging; and Uchumi Supermarkets which will be
a new listing) and 2 through exercise of pre-emption rights (Tourism Promotion Services and Kenya
Safari Lodges). The remaining 15 PEs are targeted for privatization in 1993 (10) and 1994 (5). The
action plan and timetable for ESTU is shown at Annex A.4. It was also agreed that for at least 10
out of the 20 PEs on Table 3.1, privatization transactions will be completed by end-1994. In
addition, GOK would submit to IDA, for information, draft contracts for the sale of assets or draft
prospectuses for the sale of shares as soon as the privatization preparatory work is completed and sale
announcements can be made. Final contracts and prospectuses will be submitted once the transactions
are finalized.
4.8          Certain activities to be performed by the ESTU closely parallel those being
undertaken as part of the restructuring program of the DFIs under the on-going IDA Financial
Parastatals TA Project (FPTAP). While ESTU is being entrusted with implementing the main
privatization program, the board of directors of DFIs plays an active role in the decision makcing
process concerning the sale of PEs which are in the equity portfolio of the DFIs; 16 of the 20 PEs
stated for privatization in 1992 - 94 are in this category. While it has been decided that ESTU will
take the lead role in the overall process, it will need to co-ordinate closely with DFI managements
to ensure that actions taken are complementary with initiatives already being pursued under the
FPTAP project.
4.9          During appraisal, the Government assured IDA that close coordination would be
maintained between the ESTU and the DFI's to ensure that the divestiture proceeds smoothly and that
PRPC will act as arbiter in case of disputes. Close coordination will also ensure that technical
assistance commissioned by ESTU will be clearly complementary to work underway, and that no
duplication in activities will occur; the consultants under FPTAP are now focussing on restructuring
PEs that are not on the privatization list.
4.10         Finally, the GOK has yet to decide on the use of the proceeds from privatization
transactions. The use of privatization proceeds must be well thought out by all parties concerned
(PRPC, ESTU, the Treasury and the relevant holding companies), given the strategic role of these
funds in supporting the overall success of the divestiture program. Possible options for the use of
privatization proceeds include: (a) the funding of a safety net for employees made redundant by the
privatization process, (b) the clean up of enterprise balance sheets, (c) preparation of PEs for sale,
and (d) the re-capitalization of holding companies (DFIs). It was agreed during negotiations that
GOK would issue a statement of policy for the allocation of proceeds of privatization satisfactory to
IDA, prior to credit effectiveness.
3.    Support for Capital Market development
4.11         For purposes of capital market development, the Project will provide the CMA and
NSE with technical assistance to support: (a) secondment of experts (mainly accountants) to the
NSE/CMA for a two year period; (b) implementation of a clearing, settlement and central registration
system; (c) simplification of the CMA rules and regulations; (d) creation of an education, training
and public relations program for the securities industry; and (e) development of the brokerage
industry. Project cost for this sub-component is estimated at $330,000. This assistance is conditional



- 27 -
on GOK making satisfactory contractual arrangements with CMA and NSE for the latters' use of the
funds and accountability therefor.
4.     Specialized studies, investment promotion activities and training
4.12          Studies and Investment Promotion Activities.  In order to lay the basis f f
subsequent phases of the privatization program and to deal with various issues, PRPC and ESTU w!il
on occasion need to undertake sectoral, legal and other studies. The project will finance a spec A
fund to allow the hiring of consultants to undertake such studies. The project will also provide funds
for specific activities related to investment promotion, such as, workshops, seminars and promotion
through chamber of commerce. Agreement on an indicative list of studies (covering Employees Stock
Ownership Plans (ESOPs), absorptive capacity of the stock market, and modalities of setting up if
mutual funds/unit trusts) was reached during appraisal. It was also agreed that ESTU will submit
detailed proposals, including the justification, terms of reference and relevant budget, prior to
undertaking any such technical assistance.
4.13          Training. To support the proposed privatization program, the project will provide
a comprehensive training program, in collaboration with the Kenya Institute of Management and local
training institutions, aimed at building up local capabilities for carrying out privatization, undertaking
enterprise diagnoses, and mastering various techniques of divestiture and project finance. During
appraisal it was agreed that the training program will focus on the following areas: (a) introductory
course/seminar in privatization and entrepreneurship development, and (b) divestiture implementation
including specialized training in topics such as asset valuation, prospectus preparation, public tender
procedures and bid evaluation, regulatory aspects of privatization, and use of alternative divestiture
instruments including management/employee buy-outs and debt/equity swaps. It was agreed that the
training would be provided in the form of practical short-term courses, seminars and workshops,
followed by on-the-job training, rather than extended overseas training or long-term consultants. It
was further agreed that a training program will be developed, and agreed with IDA, based on
assessments of the training needs of PRPC and ESTU staff, the delivery capability of local
educational and training institutions and individual training expertise, and identification of overseas
training offered at appropriate commercial and international financial institutions such as banks, and
specialized seminars at the World Bank/EDI, etc. Acceptable training plans will be submitted
annually to IDA. Project cost for the studies, investment promotion activities, and training sub-
component is estimated at $748,000.
PE Reform Component
4.14          Technical assistance is required to provide support for strengthening DGIPE, for
reform actions that affect the entire PE sector, for restructuring 5 strategic PEs, for designing and
administering a social safety net system, and for PE reform-related institutions outside DGIPE.
1.     Institutional Support to DGIPE
4.15          Organization, Staffing and Budget. DGIPE's structure and staffing policy will
follow the principle of keeping the entire force compact and flexible. This is specifically reflected
in the organization of reform functions in a separate Directorate of PE Reform which will function
with a very small permanent staff complement of 4; the total number of permanent staff in DGIPE,



- 28 -
when it is fully staffed will be 46 not counting managers and directors. The number of permanent
staff in the Directorate of PE Reform will be kept to a small number because in most of its reform-
related tasks, staff will be assisted by short-term consultants with limited-time contracts. Annex B.3
shows DGIPE's proposed organization chart with an indicative estimate of each unit's staff (exclusive
of consultants/advisors or the contracted Kenyan personnel just alluded to); Annex B.4 shows
DGIPE's functions in chart form; Annex B.5 contains job descriptions for key posts; and Annex B.6
shows a proposed staff resourcing timetable. In addition to the post of Director of PE Reform which
is being filled (see para. 3.31), it was agreed that every effort would be made to ensure speedy
recruitment of other key personnel. Annex B.7 shows an estimated budget for DGIPE's local
personnel costs, totalling just under KSh 13 million per year. It was also agreed that GOK would
fund the local operational and logistical expenditures of DGIPE (including civil service salaries)
amounting to approximately to US$ 1.0 million per year, over the life of the Project and make
necessary budgetary allocations. GOK has enacted approximately half of DGIPE's required budget
allocation for FY93; during negotiations, Government agreed that the remainder of the agreed
amount would be allocated to DGIPE by MOF during the course of the present fiscal year.
4.16         Longer-Term Support. Institutional support will be provided to DGIPE in the form
of capacity building through consultant and advisory services and training to DGIPE staff in carrying
out its functions. DGIPE will have both 'transient' reform tasks (transient because they will cease
once the reforms are installed and functioning) and "steady state" monitoring and other tasks of a
permanent nature. Ihe first category of tasks will be concentrated in the Reform Program Division,
and the second will be performed by the rest of DGIPE. The project will provide support to the first
task category by financing the line position of Manager, Reform Program Division, and to the second
task category by financing the 2 line positions of the Managers of Systems Development and of
Monitoring and Supervision of Public Service PEs. In addition to these three second tier line
positions, the project will also provide high-level support to DGIPE's overall policy and operations
through financing two advisors: an Advisor to DGIPE's chief executive, and an advisor to the
administrator of the safety net. The UK Overseas Development Administration (ODA) have indicated
interest in supporting the three line positions and the post of safety net advisor. The Government of
the Netherlands has offered to fund the position of the advisor to the, Chief Executive. In addition
a UNDP-financed Financial Control Advisor is already in place to assist in controlling the flow of
funds to PEs.
4.17         Government have agreed to give strong priority to filling other key management
positions according to the staff resourcing plan (see Annex B.6), especially the Director-level
positions (Finance; PE Monitoring and Supervision; and PE Reform) where contract terms may need
to be offered. Adequate progress in this endeavor is a condition for further negotiation of the project.
Since the Director of PE Reform is particularly critical, GOK had agreed that if no suitable candidate
(agreed as such by IDA and ODA) is identified by credit negotiations, an external consultant may
act temporarily in this position. The Government has also accepted that the three second tier
managerial positions can be filled temporarily with expatriate consultants provided there is a
mentoring arrangement with Kenyan staff who would work closely with the consultants and take over
the line position as soon as they were fully trained.
4.18         Debt Management. In addition to the above, short-term consultant services will be
used for organizing DGIPE's new PE debt management function presently being carried out
elsewhere in MOF and now being transferred to DGIPE's work program and responsibility; some
of these functions were originally carried out by the former GID.



- 29 -
4.19          Logistical Support. The project's logistical support to DGIPE reflect the complex
tasks that it faces. It will be provided through personal computers, printers, uninterrupted power
supply units, photocopiers, a fax machine and three vehicles. Provision has been made for a total
of 40 personal computers, including those already purchased through UNDP funding. These
computers will be adequately matched to laser-jet printers. These hardware systems will be linked
to uninterrupted power supply units to circumvent the severe problems caused by power surges and
failures.
4.20          Training. The training segment of this sub-component is designed to build the
capacity of DGIPE's professional staff to be able to discharge fully the roles and functions described
earlier. Training is envisaged for professional staff in the Directorate of PE Monitoring &
Supervision and in the Directorate of PE Reform, as well as for members of PE boards, in relevant
subjects. UNDP has expressed an interest in funding the training component in DGIPE. Key areas
to be covered by training (which will need to be geared to the needs of individual professional staff)
will include computing (including word processing and spreadsheet packages); financial analysis (in
particular for interpreting company accounts and developing a basic understanding of management
accounting, particularly with regard to systems applicable to public service PEs); and negotiating
skills to facilitate the development of cordial and professional relations with board members and
senior managers of the PEs with which key staff will need to deal with. Acceptable training plans
will be submitted annually to IDA.
4.21          DGIPE will also be closely involved in the corporate restructuring actions discussed
earlier. Further, such restructuring as well as other reforms should take account of GOK's intention
eventually to divest PEs initially dealt with by DGIPE, through subsequent phases of the privatization
program. DGIPE staff officers should therefore be fully familiar with the privatization component
of the project and with its progress, and be aware of the need to design reforms in preparation for
eventual privatization; such an awareness is also important to address any perceived conflict between
the objectives of PE reform and privatization programs. The consultants who will provide the long-
term technical assistance will be expected to contribute substantially to training in all of the above
areas, with some additional short-term inputs for specialized subjects. The cost of the entire sub-
component is estimated at $4.4 million.
2.     Support for Sector-Wide Reform Actions
4.22          Improving Capacity for Corporate Planning, Performance Monitoring and
Related Reform Actions. This sub-component will include financing of (a) business planning teams
(comprising term staff) who would take responsibility for obtaining data and developing corporate
profiles, on a standard format, for all 33 strategic PEs; (b) consultancy services for design and
implementation of an MIS system, including funding of computers and software; and (c) consultant
services to assist DGIPE in the preparation and adaptation of formats and contents for (i) performance
evaluation, to include performance-determined incentive schemes; and (ii) performance contracts,
including institutional modalities for their negotiation, implementation and follow-up.
4.23          Studies and Consultancy Services for Changes to Policy Framework. Short term
studies have been agreed in the following areas: (i) evaluation of direct and indirect (including
implicit) subsidies and subventions in favor of the major PEs; (ii) assessment of the extent of
indebtedness of PEs to Government and to other PEs; (iii) examinations of the roles and functions



- 30 -
of institutions established as 'authorities' and 'boards"; and (iv) further review of the legal and
regulatory framework. The total sub-component cost is estimated at $3.4 million.
3.    Restructuring of 5 major PEs
4.24         The Project will fund diagnostic and related studies, and expertise to help DGIPE
monitor, coordinate, and facilitate restructuring of five large 'target' enterprises (KR, KPA, KPTC,
KTDA, NCPB). The Project will not fund any other costs (such as new capital investmeDt,
rehabilitation, or financial restructuring) associated with reform. Tasks are likely to range from
refinement and monitoring of existing performance contracts (for example with NCPB), to major
strategy studies (for example with KTDA) including assistance in implementing recommendaons.
Preliminary studies on each of the five have been commissioned for completion late summer/early
fall which will define an outline strategy, based on existing reports and discussions with management;
develop an outline restructuring plan for the upcoming 24 months and identify key actions or targets
by which the government can measure progress; and identify the main areas where technical
assistance is required and draw up detailed TOR for it. TOR for each of these studies are at Annex
B. 11. Prior to negotiations restructuring plans for each of the 5 target PEs will be agreed with
IDA. The estimated budget for this sub-component is now $8.3 million but will have to be revised
in accordance with what agreements are reached on these restructuring plans.
4.    Support for Safety Net Design and Administration
4.25         An important program element, to be administered by DGIPE initially, is the safety
net for retrenched employees. The project will provide funds for the design and administration of
a safety net for retrenched workers. Technical assistance will be required to design administrative
mechanisms and to examine other support initiatives including job creation and training. The overall
program and timetable of work proposed for DGIPE has been set out in Annex B. 13. ODA is likely
to fund most of the preparatory work during the remainder of 1992, costing perhaps $500,000. Other
donors have also expressed an interest in funding some components including those dealing with ro-
traLning and job creation. There is nevertheless likely to be an ongoing requirement for technical
assistance to help with scheme administration through 1993 and 1994. Costs to be covered by the
project are estimated at around $1.0 million.
4.26         In addition to funding technical assistance, Government has made it clear that it will
look for donor support in funding actual retrenchment payments for the 25 PEs (26 including Kenya
Airways pilot program) being restructured or divested under the proposed Project. This could
amount to cash payments of about $5-10 million, phased over 2-3 years. IDA funds from the Project
cannot be used for this purpose directly; other donors are currently considering their position; and
EEC and the Netherlands have already expressed an interest in supporting the fund for these
purposes. Prior to negotiations, Government submitted to IDA an acceptable proposal for a complete
safety net, including design, funding, and administration.
5. Support to Related Institutions
4.27         Technical assistance to improve the business environment for PEs is required for the
Registrar General, where significant MIS investment is necessary to improve the accessibility of
enterprise accounts; for the Auditor General, State Corporations where training and limited MIS
support should be accompanied by greater involvement from the private sector; and for the Attorney



- 31 -
General, where short-term training is needed. Total costs of this project sub-component are
estimated at $1.5 million.
4.28          Problems encountered in the offices of the Registrar-General and Auditor-General
(State Corporations) have been outlined earlier. Assistance for the former will consist of significant
MIS investment to improve the security and accessibility of company records. Assistance for the
latter is likely to be a combination of training and limited MIS investment, contingent on greater
involvement of the private sector in parastatal auditing. Existing findings on training and MIS
requirements, and terms of reference for a short study to identify ways of increasing private sector
involvement are attached at Annex B. 15.
4.29          To support the Attorney-General's Office, the project will finance short term training
courses for lawyers in the office, in relevant areas, e.g. parastatal reform, privatization, public
enterprise reform programs, and negotiation skills. This will comprise 10 lawyers to attend various
courses over an eighteen month period; training provided to the Legislative Drafting section to
enable it to cope the increased amnount of drafting need during the reform period and thereafter; short-
term expertise to be provided to the office as needed for legislative drafting and other areas relevant
to the program; and a limited amount of logistical support for the department, including,
computers/word processors, photocopiers and related office equipment.
D. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
4.30          Total project costs are estimated at US$31.825 million, (excluding taxes and duties
from which the project is exempt). The estimated foreign exchange is US$28.863 million, or 90.7
percent of total cost. The costs by project component are provided above in Table 4.1; details are
provided in Annex 2.
4.31          Base cost estimates are in mid-1992 prices.  Physical and price contingencies
amounting to about 10 percent of base costs are included.
Financing Plan
4.32          The proposed IDA  credit of US$23.32  million equivalent would finance
approximately 73 percent of total project costs, net of duties and taxes. A PPF in the amount of $1.5
million was approved in May 1992. The Government's contribution to the project will finance
operating costs of about US$2.9 million equivalent. ODA financing estimated at US$4.2 million
would provide TA support for the PE reform component and finance long term consultants to
DGIPE, design and administration of the safety net, as well as sector reform actions (studies,
development of MIS, etc.). Netherlands cofinancing estimated at $480,000 would finance the advisor
to the head of DGIPE.



- 32 -
TABLE 4-1: Estimated Proiect Costs" ('000 USS)
Local         F Foreimn       T2al
1.     Privatimfion Comoonent
A.  Institutional support                              1,100          1,530        2,630
of which:
Incremental operating costsf                (1,100)        (1,160)      (,260)
Marketing Campaign                                          (370)         (370)
B.   Support to divestiture actions                        -          9,435        9,435
C.  Studies/consultants/training                           -           748           748
D.  Capital market support                                 -            330          330
Component subtotal                                                1.0           12.043       13.143
H.     PE Reform Comoonent
Support to:
A.  Sector-wide reform actions                             -          3,445        3,445
B.   Restructuring of S target PEs                         -          8,340        8,340
C.  Safety net                                             -          1,009         1,009
D.  Institutional Support (DGIPE)                      1,862          2,542        4,404
of which:
Incremental operating costs:                (1,862)         (202)       (2,064)
Consultant services/traing                                (2,340)       (2,340)
E.   Related institutional support                         -          1,484         1,484
of which:
Increnental operating costs:                                (500)         (500)
Consultant services/training                                (984)         (984)
Component subtotal                                                             16.82         18682
PROJECT TOTAL                                    2962          aim           31 .82
j/ Includes contingencies estimated at 10% of base costs.
b/ Converted at KSh 30/US$.
2t Logistical/operational support, vehicles and supplies, and local personnel costs.
4.33            Because of the complexity involved in attempting to establish formal co-financing
arrangements with donors already providing assistance to the Government's program of institutional
development, coordinated financing has been worked out which includes additionally about
US$400,000 from the UNDP, and another US$480,000 from the EEC. Financing for recurrent costs
will be limited to salaries of some of the key personnel in ESTU  working under consultancy
contracts. The detailed financing plan for the project, by component and sub-component, is set out
on Table 4.2
4.34            As indicated earlier in the text (see para 4.26), the project only provides support fbr
the administration and design aspects of the safety net and not for its funding. Funding is not
included for the redundancy payments which are expected to total US$5-10 million arising out of PE
restructuring and divestiture components of the project. EEC and the Netherlands have expressed
an interest in providing support for the pilot programs to be launched in Kenya Airways and NCPB



- 33 -
and estimated to cost US$2-3 million. Additional and more specific commitments are expected to
follow from a donor meeting on this issue in late August 1992.
Procurement
4.35         Procurement under the credit as summarized on Table 4.3 would cover the net-of-tax
cost of regular and consultant personnel, studies, training, and goods for technical assistance. The
incremental operating costs (IOC) generated by the Project, amount to a total of $4.8 million. The
IDA credit will finance $1.64 million of IOC or approximately 34 percent. IOC consists of (i) local
personnel costs of close to $2 million (of which IDA will finance approximately 50 percent) and (ii)
logistical and operational support expenditures totalling $3 million (of which IDA will finance
$700,000). The logistical and support services, and goods element would facilitate the functioning
of the two coordinating agencies, ESTU and DGIPE, of $3 million; all would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to IDA apart from goods and vehicles
costing less than $50,000 which may be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000. Any purchases of value above $50,000
by ICB will require prior review and agreement with IDA; procurement by ICB of goods and services
less than $50,000 in value will be subject to ex-post review to ensure their conformity with IDA
procedures. The regular non-civil service personnel of the two agencies would be procured through
local recruitment at a total cost of close to $2 million, except for the three consultants provided by
the project to DGIPE to temporarily fill second-tier line positions (see para. 4.16) whose procurement
will be the same as that of other consultant services and is shown as such on the table. Local
recruitment will be limited to staff who are not specialists or experts and are procured at least cost
locally in Kenya. The marketing and publicity campaigns are a part of the privatization process
where LCB procedures acceptable to IDA would be used for procurement of materials for marketing
and publicity campaigns ($370,000); any costs for television or radio advertising will be borne by
the Government; and the same limit ($50,000) for post and prior reviews applies here as for the
logistical component.
4.36         The major procurement element consists of the $25.1 million shown for consultant
services, studies and training; IDA will finance approximately 80 percent ($19.8 million) of this
procurement element. The consultant portion of that total would break down into three packages of
consultancy services, for which terms of reference have been or will be prepared by ESTU and
DGIPE and which will consist of (i) qualified individuals to be recruited into positions (mostly
advisory but some line positions as in the DGIPE case mentioned above) whose job descriptions have
been agreed with IDA; (ii) recruitment of long- or short-term consultants (firms or individuals) to
prepare studies, action plans and similar products (including, for example, advising on the safety net
system); and (iii) recruitment of consultants to be assembled into core teams to assist in preparing
PEs for privatization (PITs) and in restructuring certain major PEs retained in state ownership.
Procurement of the latter two packages will be done by inviting internationally reputed consulting
firms, and in some cases, individuals (from short-lists agreed with IDA) to provide the respective
services. A more detailed breakdown of consultancy services to be financed by IDA, including
methods of procurement, is given in Annex 4.



- 34 -
TABLE 4-2: Flnancing PlIe
(US$'OOO)
Nether              IDA
GOK       MDA       ODA      EEC    UNDP        -       ToW      ConLi-
F.lands                           bution
1. Pdvatizar   m_                                          _ Cow_
A. Ihutdioaa  Support, of whch:   1,102      1,528                                         2,630      58
loneulmaaw operwag cat:        (1102)   (1,158)                                        (2,260)
maedbing a  apu                           (370)                  _                       (370)
B. Suppoctto                                8,955       -       480                        9,435      95
dituzr
actiom
C. Studie                                    748                      -                     748       100
co umi
D. Capita                                    330        -                                  330        100
m1 ppOa_                                   
Conoenmt                          1,102    11,561               480       .               13,143       88
Subtotal
H. PE Reform
Composu____
A. Sootorwide                               1,575     1,740              130               3,445      46
- reform rcionr
B. R*rucmuing                               8,340            -                -            8,340      100
of 5 tuare PE_
C. Ssfeynst                                  360       649                -                1,009      36
D. DOWE, of which:                1,862       -       1,792              270      480      4,404       -
Incrrenu   operding cogs:      (1,862)              (202)                               (2,064)
Con  taksesrvicesdtusinhg:                         (1,590)            (270)    (480)     2,340)
E. Rubted institions, of wbhih      -       1.44        -             -            -       1,484      100
D nru a operarti  coda:                   (500)                                         (50Y)
CoomDJU    mvies_Arining:                 (984)                                         (984)
Conyonama                         1,862    11,759    4,181               400      480     18,682      63
Subtotal
PRLOJECrFTOTAL                    2,964    23,320    4,181.    480       400      480     31,825      73
g/  Have ndicated intento of contnbuting directly to safety net fund to be set up.



- 35 -
Table 43: Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(IDA Contributions Shown in brackets)
(US$'000)
Procurement Metnhd
Element       Other   ICB    LC3
Recruitment
Incremental Operating
1. Local Personnel                                1,802         1,802
(940)        (940)
2. Logistical and              2,872   150                      3,022
operational                  (550)  (150)                     (700)
support:
equipment,
supplies, services
and vehicles.
Subtotal                        2872   150         1802          4824
(550)  (150)      (940)         (1640)
Consultant Services,    25,131                                   25,131
Studies, training, less    (19,810)                              (19,810)
PPF/SPPF
Marketing campaigns for                  370                       370
privatization                            (370)                    (370)
PPF/SPPF                 1,500                                    1,500
(1,500)                                  (1,500)
Total                   26,631 | 2,872   520         1,802        31,825
l______________________  (21,310)  (550)  (520)       (940)       (23,320)
Due to rounding, numbers may not add up exactly.
Disbursements
4.37         Disbursements under the credit will be made against 100 percent of expenditures for
consultant services and external (both local and overseas) training, and against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for equipment (or 80 percent, if procured locally). The Government would finance 100
percent of the cost of in-house training of staff, and office facilities and support services for the
consultants. Disbursements for external training would be made on the basis of SOEs, and provisions
for advance payment of per diem, travel and fees would be made under the Credit. In order to
facilitate access to project funds for numerous small payments, two special accounts equivalent to



- 36 -
US$0.5 million each will be opened at the Central Bank of Kenya. The expected completion date
of the project is December 1996 which is consistent with the country disbursement profile for TA
projects. Based on this completion date, the credit closing date will be June 1997. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of $1.5 million, preceded by a small SPPF advance, has been provided.
All amounts disbursed from this PPF/SPPF will be reimbursed to IDA when this credit becomes
effective.
Accounts and Audit
4.38         The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will be responsible for ensuring that accounts for all
expenditures funded under the project Credit, are submitted to it on a regular basis by the various
implementing ministries.  The project accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. MOF will provide
interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the project.
The project would also finance the hiring of a local accounting firm to assist ESTU in doing so; for
DGIPE, project accounts will be maintained by MOF accountants. The hiring of a consultant,
acceptable to IDA, for ESTU, would be confirmed prior to effectiveness. Project accounts would
be audited annually by the Auditor General, including an audit of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
During negotiations, the Government undertook to request the Auditor General to exercise his
discretion to contract out the auditing of the project accounts to an independent external auditor
acceptable to IDA. The audit reports, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably
request, would be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end of the Government's
fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the
accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of statements of expenditure as a basis for loan
disbursement, and compliance with financial covenants.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, AND MID-TERM REVIEW
4.39         The following understandings have been reached with respect to arrangements for
implementation, project monitoring and for the mid-term  review.   In terms of project
implementation, the responsibility for implementing the TA will be primarily divided between the
ESTU and the DGIPE as follows: (i) ESTU will have full responsibility for managing the
privatization component of the TA and interacting directly with IDA on all matters related to
implementation of this component; (ii) DGIPE will have full responsibility for managing the PE
reform component of the TA and interacting directly with IDA on all matters related to
implementation of this component; (iii) to ensure consistency and integrity of the overall TA, DGIPE
will also coordinate the TA sub-components designed to strengthen the Auditor General's Office
(State Corporation's), the Registrar General's Department, the Capital Markets Authority and the
Nairobi Stock Exchange, and the Office of the Attorney General in close consultation with the
agencies involved, (iv) ESTU and DGIPE will each appoint internationally recognized experts in
appropriate fields, acceptable to IDA, to visit Kenya at least twice a year to help the management of
these units in overseeing project implementation and provide appropriate advice, and (v) GOK and
IDA will jointly organize a project launch workshop immediately after credit effectiveness to
familiarize key officials (of all agencies involved) with important aspects of the project including
procurement and disbursement procedures. The schedule for IDA supervision missions, consistent
with items (iv) and (v) above, is given in Annex 3.



- 37 -
4.40          It has been agreed that arrangements will be put in place for regular monitoring and
reporting of the project. This will involve: (i) Progress in the implementation of the privatization
component will be monitored by ESTU; (ii) Progress in the implementation of the PE reform
component will be monitored by DGIPE (and which will also monitor TA for strengthening of the
Auditor General (State Corporation's) Office, the Registrar General's Department, the Capital
Markets Authority and Stock Exchange, and the Office of the Attorney General); and (iii) ESTU and
DGIPE will furnish to IDA for review and/or comment, quarterly progress reports, beginning with
Septenber 1992, on the status of project implementation and work plans for execution of the project
during the next 6 months.
4.41          It was agreed with GOK that a joint mid-term review of the project will be carried
out one year after the date of credit effectiveness. During negotiations, the scope of a mid-term
review was agreed. This review will cover inter-alia: (i) progress towards project objectives; (ii)
effectiveness of institutional arrangements to implement the Government's program for PE reform
and privatization; (iii) effectiveness of the staffing of ESTU and DGIPE, and (iv) progress in
implementing the work program for privatization and PE reform. Two major objectives of the mid-
term review will be to review (i) the need for further institutional and legal changes to ensure
effective implementation of the reform program (and of the project which is supporting the program),
and (ii) whether the TA timing and size need to be adjusted taking into account the progress of and
experience in project implementation during the first year. More detailed performance criteria were
presented by IDA during the negotiations (see Annex A. 12) for assessing progress in project
implementation during the mid-term review. The Government agreed to review and agree to these
detailed performance criteria before project launching.



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFTIS
5.1           The main benefits of the proposed project are those that would accrue from
implementation by the Government of an efficient, transparent and sustainable parastatal reform
program. These would include:
(i)   improvements in allocative and productive efficiency which would raise employment
and incomes over the long run;
(ii)   enhancement of investment opportunities for the private sector which could attract
additional foreign investment;          -
(iii)   divestiture of non-strategic parastatals and improvements in the performance of
strategic firms that would increase the Government's net worth and improve its
budgetary situation; and
(iv)   separation of regulatory from commercial functions to level the playing field between
the public and private sectors.
As the implementation of parastatal reforms would also require complementary policies of a broader,
economy-wide nature (eg, to deepen financial and capital markets), economic benefits would be larger
than those measured through quantitative indicators.
5.2           The proposed project will be judged successfu if all the indicators of expected
outcomes (see para. 4.2) are realized.
B. RiLks
5.3           The main risks associated with the operation are:
(i)    Government unwillingness or inability to adhere to agreed policies and procedures
that can ensure the transparency and efficiency of the reform process;
(ii)   inability of the Govermnent to sustain its commitment to parastatal reform in the
face of social dislocations and opposition resulting from the loss of patronage and
rent-seeking opportunities by some groups;
(iii)  inability or disinterest by the local market and foreign investors to absorb divested
assets.
As part of a strategy to deal with these risks we will seek to ensure that the (a) the institutional
setup and implementation capacity is adequate to meet the needs of the proposed reform program,
(b) agreed procedures provide, to the extent possible, safeguards that can ensure the transparency
of the divestiture process, and (c) design and components of the TA, and the monitoring process
(including mid-term reviews) will facilitate the implementation of a comprehensive program of
reforms including critical changes in the legal/regulatory/policy frameworks. This would be
secured, not only through general understandings with the Government, but also by ascertaining
before negotiations how agreed policies and mechanisms are being implemented in practice.
Moreover, to ensure sustainability of the process, the principles, strategy and procedures would
need to be widely publicized before negotiations both on privatization and PE reform. To deal
--------



- 39 -
with the socio-political risks the Government will need to take upfront actions that can
demonstrate the seriousness of its commitment and implement a safety net mechanism (to be
agreed during appraisal) to minimize the transitional costs for displaced labor. To deal with a
cautious market, the Government will need to focus on ensuring some early privatization
successes to enhance credibility among private investors and implement complementary policies to
improve the enabling environment for domestic and foreign investors.



VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
ACIONS ALREADYTAKEN
6.1           Prior to negotiations the following measures which were identified as critical for
successful implementation of the parastatal reform program had been carried out by the
Government:
(i)    Policy Framework for PE Reform and Privatization. GOK's PE reform and
privatization policy was published as an official document (see paragraphs 3.4 and
3.8);
(ii)   Institutional Arrangements for Privatization. A Presidential Order was issued
reconstituting the Parastatal Reform Program Committee (PRPC) with 13 ex-
officio members (including five members from the private sector) and headed by
the Vice President (see para. 3.9); an Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit
(ESTU) has been established by GOK with an appropriate legal mandate to act as
an autonomous implementing unit for the divestiture program (see para. 3.10);
and the following key positions in the ESTU have been filled: Executive Director,
Deputy Executive Director, Privatization Advisor, Financial Analyst (appointment
is in the process of being finalized), and an economist (see para. 4.5);
(iii) Institutional Arrangements for PE Reform. GOK established in the MOF a
Department of Govermnent Investment and Public Enterprises (DGIPE), headed
by a person of Permanent Secretary rank, to take a lead role in the reform of the
33 strategic parastatals which will remain the public sector, as well as to carry out
the permanent supervisory functions appropriate to Government as owner (see
para. 3.31); and GOK has finalized arrangements for filling the key position of
Director of PE reform in DGIPE (see para. 3.31);
(iv)   Safety Net for Displaced Workers. GOK submitted to IDA details of the
proposed safety net for any workers who may be displaced in the course of
implementation of this Project including design, funding, administration, and other
related matters (see para. 4.26);
(v)    Actions on Privatization. GOK brought 4 PEs, out of the list of 20 identified at
appraisal, to the point of sale; the 4 PEs are: Uchumi Supermarkets, East African
Oxygen, CMC Packaging, and Housing Finance Company of Kenya (see para
4.7);
(vi)   Policy on Allocation of Proceeds of Privatization. GOK submitted to IDA a
policy proposal for the allocation of privatization proceeds (see para. 4.10); and
(vii)  Budget Allocation for ESTU and DGIPE for FY 93 GOK has made a budgetary
allocation for ESTU and DGIPE for FY93 (see paras 4.5 and 4.15).



- 41 -
AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.2           The following agreements were reached during Project negotiations:
(i) Privatization component:
6.3           The privatization program, through 1994 encompasses 20 PEs; as per paras. 6.4
and 6.10 above, 5 of them will have been brought to the point of sale or privatized by Credit
Effectiveness. Ten more PEs will be brought to the point of sale or privatized by end-1993 and
the last 5 by end-1994. By that time, privatization transactions will have been completed for 10
of the 20 PEs in the program just mentioned (see para 4.7).
6.4           PEs to be liquidated. Six identified PEs will be liquidated during the course of
project implementation on an agreed schedule; (see para. 3.20 and Annex A.13).
6.5           Progress review on implementation GOK will submit to IDA by January 1, of
each year, its draft detailed annual privatization program with explicit targets and timing; will
annually review with IDA by November 30 of each year, progress in implementation of the
privatization program with particular attention to those enterprises for which offers were either
not made or deemed unsatisfactory; and will provide quarterly information to IDA on all final
recommnendations for PE sales that were rejected by PRPC, together with the reason for rejection
(see para. 4.40). At three-month intervals GOK will furnish to IDA through ESTU (i) progress
reports on the status of project implementation, and (ii) proposed work plans for the execution of
the project during the following six months, for IDA's review and comment.
6.6          Information on PEs being privatized. GOK will submit to IDA for information,
draft contracts for the sale of assets or draft prospectus for the sale of shares when the
privatization preparatory work is complete and the company is ready to be announced for sale.
Final contracts and prospectus will be submitted once the transaction is closed (see para. 4.7).
6.7           Policy on negotiations involving direct sales. ESTU will not undertake any
predetermined direct sale negotiations by private treaty except after publicly solicited bids have
been obtained unless justified by the existence of legal rights.
6.8          Implementation of a clearing and settlement system at the Nairobi Stock
Exchange. By mid-term review (see below), GOK will ensure that the Nairobi Stock Exchange
(NSE) will select and implement a clearing, settlement, and central registration system at the NSE
(see para. 4.11).
(ii) PE Reform component:
6.9           New system of corporate governance. GOK will implement the new system of
corporate governance and GOK-PE relations agreed in principal with IDA subject to clarification,
and acceptance by IDA, of the names of PEs which will fall into the 3 proposed categories; (see
para. 3.39 and Annex B.19).



- 42 -
6.10          Action plan for restructuring 5 maior PEs. GOK will implement the action plans
for restructuring KR, KPA, KPTC, NCPB, and KTDA, agreed with IDA, over a 2 year period
following credit effectiveness (see para 3.41 and Annex B.18).
6.11          Sector-wide actions. By mid-term review (see below), GOK through DGIPE will
(a) complete preparation of corporate plans for at least 10 of the largest PEs; and (b) negotiate
negotiate and execute performance contracts with at least 5 of the PEs referred to in (a) above
(see paras. 3.37 and 3.38).
6.12          Implementation of study results. By mid-term review (see below), GOK through
DGIPE will carry out studies on (a) regulatory authorities and boards, (b) PE indebtedness
including arrears cross-debts, and (c) measures to improve the performance of the Auditor
General (State Corporations), on the basis of agreed TOR, and will implement the action plans
resulting from each of these studies as well as the subsidy study noted below (see paras. 3.33,
3.36 and 3.63).
6.13          preparation of five year PE reform program. By mid-term review, GOK through
DGIPE, will complete preparation of a comprehensive 5-year PE Reform Program and submit the
same to IDA for review and comment (see para. 3.45).
(*ii) Dated covenants:
6.14          Progress rgrtiU. Starting June 30, 1993 GOK, through DGIPE and ESTU,
will furnish to IDA for review and comment (i) quarterly progress reports on the status of Project
implementation, and (ii) work plans for execution of the Project during the following six months.
6.15          Budgetary allocations. By July 1 of each fiscal year, GOK will confirm that a
budget allocation has been provided for ESTU and DGIPE (see paras. 4.5 and 4.15).
6.16          Training. By November 30 of each year, GOK will discuss and agree with IDA,
a training program for DGIPE and ESTU staff for the following year (see paras. 4.13 and 4.20).
6.17          Mid-term review. IDA will carry out a mid-term review one year following
credit effectiveness. The review will evaluate actions taken under both components of the
parastatal reform program in light of which mutually agreed modifications may be made to the
remaining part of credit implementation. The review shall cover, inter-alia, (i) progress towards
achieving Project objectives, (ii) effectiveness of institutional arrangements to implement the PE
refbrm and Privatization program, (iii) effectiveness of the staffing of ESTU and DGIPE, (iv)
progress in implementing the overall work programs of both the privatization and PE reform
components, (v) need for further legal and institutional changes to implement the reform program,
(vi) review of the recommendations of the various studies, (vii) liquidations carried out, (viii)
preview of enterprises that have been on sale for at least 12 months and for which no (or
unsatisfactory) offers have been received, and (ix) progress in implementing the restructuring of
the 5 major target PEs referred to in para. 6.10 above (see para. 4.41).



- 43 -
CONDMONS OF CREDfT EFFECTIVENESS
6.18         For privatization, at least one more PE of the 5 slated for divestiture in 1992, to
be brought to the point of sale or privatized (see para. 4.7).
6.19         For PE Reform: Completion of the study on direct and indirect subsidies and
action plan for phasing them out, acceptable to IDA (see para. 3.35);
6.20         For PE Reform: Cabinet approval of the system of corporate governance agreed
with IDA (see para. 6.9) above);
6.21         For Privatization: Issuance by GOK of a policy statement on the allocation of
privatization proceeds acceptable to IDA (see para. 4.10). -
6.22         For project implementation: ESTU has appointed the following additional staff:
an accountant to help ESTU to maintain project accounts and provide interim and annual financial
statements, and at least 1 of the following staff: Legal Specialist, MIS Specialist, and Personnel
and Administration Officer (para. 4.5).
RECOMMENDATION
6.27         Based on the above assurances and agreements, the project is suitable for a credit
to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 16.1 million (US$23.32 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity.



ANNEX I
ASSISTANCE BY MAJOR DONORS TO GOVERNMET PROGRAM
OF PUBIUC ENTRRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION 1/
British-ODA (Overseas      1.1    Development of National Safety          }
Development                       Net and Operationalising the Safety     }
Administration)                   Net for two pilots (Short-term          }
Consultancy).
}$4.2
1.2    Long-term T.A. to fund three positions  }million
in DGIPE and a Safety Net Adviser.      }
1.3   Short-term T.A. to PE Reform to: Specific   }
PEs, DGIPE, training and studies, including  }
logistics support.                      }
2.    UNDP (United Nations       2.1    Long-term T.A. to DGIPE (one Adviser to   }
Development Programme)            Financial Control Department)           }
2.2    Equipment for M.I.S.                    }$400,000
2.3    Training for DGIPE staff                }
3.    The Govermnent of          3.1    Long-term T.A. to DGIPE (Adviser for a   }
Netherlands                      period of two years)                     }
}
3.2    Funding of pilot Safety Net for one PE  }$1.0
}million
3.3   Short-term assistance for ESTU, individual   }
PEs                                      }
4.    EEC (European Economic    4.1    Contribution to Safety Net fund for one   }
Community)                       pilot
)million
4.2    On-going assistance to restructuring    }
of NCPB.                                 }
}
4.3    Support for ESTU (tentative)            }
I/    For the Netherlands and EEC, includes direct contribution and contemplated
contribution to safety net fund.



ANNEX2
Page 1 of 3
TOTAL PROJECT BUDGET
A. Privatization Cormonent (USS)
FY 93                 FY94                       PERIOD-
YEAR I                YEAR 2
GOK |_II)A            GOK        M IiA      GOK         IDA       TOTAL
A. General InstitutionAl Support
1. Higher Level Staff (x)
Executive Director                        60,000                60,000                 120,000    120,000
Deputy Director                           50,000         .      50.000                 100,000    100,000
Accountant (1)                      .     24,000         .      24,000          .      41,000      41,000
Legal Specialiat (1)               .      35,000         .      35,000          .      70,000      70,000
MIS Specialist (1)                  .     24,000                24,000          .      41,000      48,000
Economist (1)                             35,000                35,000          .      70,000      70,000
Financial Analysta (2)             .      64,000                64,000          .      121,000    128,000
Media Specialist (1)                      24,000         .      24,000          .      48,000      48,000
Adminiatrative Spec. (1)                  20,000                20,000                 40,000      40,000
Research Asuantau (5)                     90,000         .      90,000          .      130,000    180,000
2. Logistical & Operational       500,000     100,00   500,000    100,000   1,000,000     200,000   1,200,000
Support/Office Equipnent
3. Marketing & Publicity               -     168,000         -    168,000           -     336,000     336,000
Campaign                                          I
SUBTOTAL                  500,000     694,000   500,000    694,000   1,000,000    1,318,000   2,388,000
B. Divestiture of Specific Entcrprie a        4,050,000-   4,050,000                 -    8,580,000   8,SS0,000
- EEC Adviaor                                240,000              240,000
C. Specific Studies/Short lern           -    340,000          -    340,000                 680,000     680,000
consultants,Training, seninars                        I
D. Capital Market                        -     150,000         -    150,000          -      300,000     300,000
TOTAL A+B+C+D                 500,000   5,474,000   500,000   5,794,000   1,000,000   10,948,000  11,948,000
Contingency (10%)                    50,000    547,400    50,000    547,400    100,000    1,094,800  1 ,104,800
GRAND TOTAL FOR                  550,000   6,021,400   550,000   6,021,400   1,100,000   12,042,800  13,142,800
PRIVATIZATION                          I                                I



Imp 2 of 3
B. PE Reform ConmonwA fUJSSO 1/
FY93                          FY94                        PEMIOD
YEAR I                        YEAR 2                                           TOTAL
GOK       IDA    OTHERI/  GOK           IDA    GTHEP4/    O0K        IDA    OTHU3/
A. Support br Sector-               1,06       1,98C               4C                          1,09       2,351    3,
Wide Reform Acto
- Studies (Executive
Datbase; Funnial
Flows; PE profile;
P8 indebwdas
Performance
Planning
Autbonties and
Boards; Lal
and Regulatory)
SUBTOTAL                          1,06'      1,98C             _                             1.09       2.3S     3,
B. Supportfor he_
Restrucluring of S
Target PEe
- Diagnosic Sudie                   36(
-}PTC                             2,43                          1,20C                        3,                   3
-KrDA                              1,                                                          61                   61
- NCPB                               4!                           4
- KR                                S                            69C                          1,49                1,49
- KPA                               87(                          SIC                          1,6a                1,6S ,
SUBTOXTAL                         5    _9_                     2,74                           3                  a
C  Support kw Safety
Net Design an
Implementation
- Studiecs &1                                  409               18C        24                 361                1,
Inplementation
Suppolt                                                                                                  I
SUBTOTAL                            1a         409               1S         24C               36          649    1,
D. Intitutional Suppoct
to DGIPE
- Local Staff Coe         431                           431                           U6                             6
- Long Term TA                                 96C                          961                          1,92     1,
Personnel _/
- Short Term TA
Personnel (Debt                               15C                                                        151
Management)
- Logistical Suppoct     1,00                  202                                   1,C                         1I
- Training                                      13                           13!                          27        2
SUBTOTAL                1,431                 ,441,    431                1,09C     1,86                2,54     4,
E. Support to Related
Institutiou 4/
- Registr Oeneasl                   5C4                          544                          1,                  1
- Auditor Genal                     241                                                        241
- Attorney Gened ral                                              10C                          201
SUBTOTAL                            8                                                        1, I ,48            1,4S
GRAND TOTAL             1,431     7,68C      3,S3       431    3,965      1,33      1,86    11,27!      5,54    ISS
(PE Reformn)
Including 10 percent for conc   -s
2. Includes ODA, UNDP, NL, and EEC.
3. Excudes position of Fucial Contol Adviser to DWIPE which is funded from an existing UNDP proect.
4. Includes logistica wpport of USS 500,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 ot3
TOTAL PROJECT BUDGET (USS'000)
J7VatiZatiOn Componet| 550.00   6021.40              550.00   6021.40           1100.00   12042.30            13142.801
Reform Component      1431.03   7610.00 3836.00 431.03   3969.00  1335.00   1862.06   11279.00   5541.00  19863.6681
iR2ND TOTAL             1981.03  13701.40 3836.00 981.03   9990.40  1335.00   2962.06   23321.30   5541.00  3182.
OTHER: Includes ODA, UNDP, NL, and EEC.



ANNEX-3
page 1 of 1
BANK SUPERVISION PLN
ApproXiMate                                                          Expected Staff
Data                               Activity                     Requirements and
Input in Staff Weeks
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  j  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (S W )
1993    March               Project launch workshop: FoUow-up on        Task Manager   (2)
conditions of effectiveness; review of work  PE Specialist    (2)
program for first year of project           Privatization
implementation; familiarizing key officials of    Specialist  (2)
all involved agencies with important upects of   Legal Specialist (2)
the Project including procurement and       Sector Specialists(4)
disbursement procedures and performance
criteria for Mid-Term Review.
October            Supervision mission to follow-up on progras  Task Manager   (1)
of (a) Privatization Program for 1993; (b)  PE Specialist    (1)
Restructuring of KR, KPA, NCPB, KPTC,       Privatization
and KTDA; (c) Provision of TA to the offices   Specialist    (1)
of the Registrar General, Auditor General, and
Attorney General; (d) TA for CMA and NSE;
(e) Action Plan for reducing subsidies; and (f)
training.
1994    March               Supervision mission to follow-up on progress    Task Manager   (1)
of main project components and review of    PE Specialist    (1)
annual work program for 1994.               Privatization
Specialist      (1)
September          Mid-Term Review of progress in project       Task Manager   (2)
implemnentation; preparation of foUow-up    PE Reform
action plan.                                Specialist       (2)
Privatization
Specialist       (2)
Financial
Analyst         (2)
Sector
Specialists     (6)
Legal Specialist (2)
1995    May & October       Two supervision missions to follow-up on    Task Manager   (2)
Mid-Term Review action plan and outstanding   Seoctor
issues.                                     Specialists      (4)
PE Reform
Specialist      (2)
1996    March               Supervision Mission to review progress in   Task Manager   (1)
project implementation.                     PE Reform
Specialist      (1)
1297    March               Supervision mission - PCR preparation        Task Manager   (1)



Annex
page 1 of 3
IDA FINANCED CONSULTANCY SERVICES
IN THE PROJECT
Brief Description                 Man-Months  Methods of Selection
(Lm)
1.    Privatization:                     440 mm        Firms selected from IDA-
Consultancy services                             approved short-list will be
to be provided by Privatization                  assembled into core teams
Implementation Teams (PITS)                      (PITS) to provide legal,
to help ESTU prepare at least                    financial, technical, and
20 PEs, individually, for                        other specialist services.
privatization.
2.     Restructuring of 5 Major PEs:                    As above, consultants will be
Consultancy services to help                    selected from IDA-approved
DGIPE monitor, coordinate and                    short-list of firms.
facilitate restructuring of
KR, KPA, KTDA, NCPB and KPTC
through implementation of agreed
restructuring action plans.
Consultancy Services for Kenya
Railways (KR)
(a) Corporate Governance and KR    12 mm
Management.
(b) Implementation of new locomotive 18 mm
delivery option.
(c) Establishment of Passenger     12 mm
Services as an autonomous business.
(d) Financial restructuring.       12 mm
(e) Design of Port/Kenya Rail       6 mm
interface mechanism.
60 mm
Consultancy Services for Kenya
Ports Authority (KPA)
(a) Corporate Governance and KPA    22 mr
management.
(b) Equipment maintenance           9 mm
contracting.



Annex
page 2 of 3
(c) Tariff study.                  9 mm
(d) Tariff regulatory review board  3 mm
study.
(e) Streamlining customs and police    9 mm
procedures.
(f) Commercialization of on-shore    16 mm
activities.
68 mm
Consultancy Services for Kenya
Tea Development Authority (KTDA)
(a) Corporate governance and policy    4 mm
statement.
(b) Regulatory & legislative changes.   4 mm
(c) Preparing commercial contracts.    8 mm
(d) Internal re-organization.      8 mm
24 mm
Consultancy services for National
Cereals & Produce Board (NCPB)
(a) Training in Buyer & Seller of  8 mm
Last Resort (BSLR) management
(b) Preparation of formulae for    5 mm
floor/ceiling prices.
(c) Scaling down of NCPB           5 mm
(preparation of detailed depot
restructuring plan).
(d) External trade liberalization  5 mm
(e) Stocks/Trade study on stock    5 mm
management under BSLR Management.
(f) Modification of performance    2 mm
contract.
(g) Establishment of market        8 mm
information system.
38 mm
Consultancy services for Kenya Posts
and Telecommunications Corp. (KPTC)
(a) Financial restructuring.      6 mm
(b) Manpower development & change 21 mm
in corporate culture.



Ann  4
pago 3 of 3
(c) Performance contracting/        12 mm
regulatory issues.
(d) Tariff policy.                  12 mm
(e) Market liberalization.          51 mm
(f) Separation of posts and         28 mn
telecommunications.
130mm
3.     Sector-Wide Reform Actions:          50 mm
Consultancy services will be provided              Consultants to be selected
to help DGIPE to carry out studies for             from IDA-approved short-list
changes to the policy framework for                of firms.
PEs and to help implement study
recommendations.
4.     Safy Net                             14 mm          From IDA-approved short-list
The Project will fund consultancy                  of firms.
services for the design and
administration of a safety net for
restructured workers.
5.     Support to Other Institutions        40 mm          From IDA-approved short-list
Project will fund consultancy                      of firms.
services in the office of the
Auditor General (State Corporations)
to improve auditing and oversight
functions; the Registrar Genera
Dartmnent to improve databases and
information management, and the
Attorney General's office to design
reforms in the regulatory/legal
framework.
6.     Specialized studies on privatization    30 mm       From IDA-approved short-list
issues and consultancy services for                of firms.
investment promotion activities and
training.
7.     Capital Market Development           13 mm          From IDA-approved short-list
Consultancy services for improvements              of firms.
in the clearing and settlement system,
simplification in the rules governing
new listings, and secondment of experts
(mainly accountants) to the NSE/CMA.






