&1…堕目111日日日日’」■■■■■■園園
へ． ,
ペ％
び
g
9
ク
妙’
ら，そ
O
-_,1-.．、＿_1可F閥
声
も
L
→→一→→→
て
「―_J&&1&-&.，甲＿1-’■7－二
&：、画’■．&-．』1_-.-．・
J &，夕ロ
a
JJg
り
－。
,&&＿で■’--－」、＿1多・ゅ－


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2440 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Parastatal Reform and Privatization
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2440 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    doewev  48       , 1992,
between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has published on July 1, 1992, a Policy
Paper on Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization which sets forth
the policies, principles, guidelines and procedures for its Public
Enterprise Reform and Privatization Program (the Program);
(C)   the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom intend to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding (the ODA Memorandum of Understanding) for the purpose
of making available goods and services to the Borrower with a value
equivalent to four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200, 000)
(the ODA Grant) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on
terms and conditions set forth in the ODA Memorandum of
Understanding;
(D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant in an amount of four hundred
thousand dollars ($400,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
UNDP Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
(E)   the Borrower has requested from the European Economic
Community (EEC) a grant approximately equivalent to four hundred
eighty thousand dollars ($480,000) (the EEC Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the EEC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and EEC;
(F)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (the Netherlands) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to four hundred eighty thousand dollars ($480,000) (the
Netherlands Grant) to assist in financing Part B of the Project; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(b)   "PRPC" means the Borrower's Parastatal Reform Program
Committee reconstituted pursuant to a Presidential Order, dated
August 5, 1992, as amended from time to time;
(c)   "ESTU" means the Executive Secretariat and Technical
Unit of the PRPC;
(d)   "PE" means a Public Enterprise;
(e)   "PIT"  means  a   Privatization  Implementation  Team
established by ESTU to prepare individual PE's for privatization;
(f)   "CMA" means the Capital Markets Authority established
pursuant to the Capital Markets Authority Act, Chapter 485A of the
laws of the Borrower;
(g)   "NSE" means the Nairobi Stock Exchange established
pursuant to the Companies Act, Chapter 480 of the laws of the
Borrower;
(h)   "DGIPE" means the Department of Government Investments
and Public Enterprises within MOF;


﻿-3-
(i)   "MIS" means Management Information System;
(j)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter, dated March 31, 1992 from the Association and
countersigned by the Borrower on April 8, 1992; and
(k)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in the
Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association for Parts A and B of the Project respectively, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Efts:tive Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the Bank the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance and Special Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balances of the
authorized amounts of the Project Preparation Advance and Special
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2,04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003, and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-5-
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOF, in accordance with the policies, principles, guidelines and
procedures contained in the Program, and with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public enterprise
reform, privatization, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-6-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall bring at least 20 PEs to the
point of sale or privatized, as follows: at least 5 by December 31,
1992; at least 10 by December 31, 1993; and at least 5 more by
December 31, 1994; of these for at least 10 PEs the privatization
transaction shall be completed by December 31, 1994. For the
purposes of this Agreement "to bring to the point of sale" means
that for the PE concerned, ESTU shall have completed the valuation
of the assets and liabilities, and evaluation of such PE, prepared
the strategy for privatization and determined the modality for sale,
and except in the case of the existence of pre-existing legal
rights, prepared, advertised, issued the prospectus or tender
document and issued necessary advertisements and notices.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
a list of PE's to be liquidated during Project implementation and
liquidate PEs in accordance with such timetable program.
Section 3.05. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) above, the Borrower shall make adequate budget allocations
annually, for ESTU and DGIPE respectively in its budgets, during
Project implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain o,- cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿-7-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of


﻿expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)   Presidential Order dated August 5, 1992, establishing
PRPC and ESTU has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ESTU
to perform any of its obligations under the Project; and
(c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ODA grant made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,   termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely that
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has completed the Subsidy Study referred to
in Part 2 (b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and prepared an
action   plan,  satisfactory   to   the   Association,   for  its
implementation;
(b)   the Borrower has approved a policy for, (i) corporate
governance of PE's, and (ii) the relationship between PEs and the
Borrower, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)   the Borrower has privatized or brought to the point of
sale five PEs;
(d)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association       a
statement on its policy for the allocation of privatization
proceeds, satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)   ESTU  has  appointed  at  least  six  (including  the
accountant) of the following staff, the Deputy Director, Accountant,
Legal Specialist, MIS Specialist, Personnel and Administration
Officer, Financial Analyst, Economist, Media Specialist and
Privatization Adviser.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:               Telex:
FINANCE                  22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /9/  Le44      S      t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'                             100%
services:
(a) for Part A           6,650,000
of the Project
(b) for Part B           5,940,000
of the Project
(2)   Training:                                100%
(a) for Part A             235,000
of the Project
(b) for Part B             170,000
of the Project
(3)   Equipment and vehicles                   100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) for Part A             150,000       80% of local
of the Project                      expenditures
(b) for Part B             450,000
of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
("txpressed in      Expenditures
Categor              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)   Refunding of            1,470,000        Amounts due
Project                                  pursuant to
Preparation                              Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated             1,035,000
TOTAL                   16,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
expenditures under Categories (2)(a) and (2)(b) respectively, until
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a training program,
satisfactory to the Association for ESTU and DGIPE, respectively.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Privatization
1.    Institutional Support for ESTU
(a)   Strengthening ESTU's management and staff.
(b)   Carrying out marketing and publicity campaigns for
privatization.
(c)   Acquisition of office equipment, computers and vehicles.
2.    Divestiture of Selected PEs
(a)   Privatization or bringing to the point of sale at least
20 PEs.
(b)   Establishment of PITs to prepare specific enterprises
for privatization and carry out transactions.
(c)   Preparation  of   PEs  for  privatization,   including
diagnosis, review of legal requirements, financial restructuring,
management analysis, definition of strategic objctives and
constraints, valuation, and preparation of prospectus or tender
documents.
3.    Capital Market Development
(a)   Strengthening of CMA and NSE in the area of financial
management.
(b)   Implementation of an improved clearing, settlement and
central registration system for NSE.


﻿- 15 -
(c)   Simplification of the CMA rules and regulations in order
to expedite the listing or floatation of companies.
(d)   Creation of an education, training and public relations
program for the securities industry.
(e)   Development of the brokerage industry.
4.    Studies. Investment Promotion and Trainina
(a)   Carrying out of sectoral, legal and other studies,
including studies on Employee Stock Option Plans, mutual funds/unit
trust, absorptive capacity of stock market.
(b)   Carrying  out   of   publicity   campaigns  for   the
privatization program.
(c)   Training of PRPC and ESTU staff to build up capacity for
carrying out privatization, undertaking enterprise diagnosis and
various techniques of divestiture and project finance.
Part B:     Public Enterprise Reform
1.    Institutional Support to DGIPE
(a)   Capacity building for DGIPE staff in carrying out
DGIPE's functions, as well as in the areas of debt management.
(b)   Acquisition of computers and other office equipment, and
three vehicles for DGIPE.
(c)   Training of DGIPE staff in monitoring, restructuring and
supervision.
2.    Sector-Wide Reform Actions
(a)   Improving capacity for corporate planning, performance
monitoring and related reform actions, including (i) developing
corporate profiles for all thirty-three strategic PEs; (ii)
designing and implementation of a MIS system; and (iii) preparation
of formats for performance evaluation and performance contracts.


﻿- 16 -
(b)   Carrying out the following studies:
(i)    evaluation of direct and indirect subsidies and
subventions in favor of the major PEs;
(ii)    indebtedness of PEs to the Borrower and other
PEs;
(iii)    roles and functions of institutions established
as authorities and regulatory Boards; and
(iv)   further review of the legal and regulatory
framework for PEs.
(c)   Improving accounting systems and practices of PEs.
3.    Restructuring of Five Maior PEs
Assisting DGIPE to design, monitor, coordinate and facilitate
the implementation of the restructuring of the following five PEs,
Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation, Kenya Tea Development Authority, Kenya Ports Authority
and National Cereals and Produce Board.
4.    Safety Net
Design and administration of a safety net for retrenched
workers of PEs.
5.    Related Institutions
(a)   Development of a MIS System to improve security and
accessibility of company and other records in the Registrar-
General's Department.
(b)   Training of Auditor-General (State Corporations) staff.
(c)   Training of Attorney-General's staff in areas relevant
to the Program, i.e. privatization, public enterprise reform,
negotiation skills, as well as in legislative drafting skills for
the Legislative Drafting Section.


﻿- 17 -
(d)   Acquisition of computers and office equipment for above
activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items required under Part A.1 (b) of the
Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $370,000, and for
goods and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be


﻿- 19 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    ESTU shall be responsible for carrying out Part A of the
Project, DGIPE shall be responsible for the implementation of Part
B of the Project.
2.    ESTU and DGIPE shall each furnish to the Association for
review and comment, quarterly progress reports, commencing June 30,
1993, on the status of Project implementation and work plans for the
execution of the Project during the following six months.
3.    The Borrower shall by November 30 in each year, discuss and
agree with the Association on training programs for ESTU and DGIPE,
respectively, for the following year.
4.    The Borrower and the Association shall not later than one year
after the Effectiveness Date carry out a mid-term review. Said
review shall cover, inter alia, (i) progress made towards achieving
Project objectives; (ii) effectiveness of institutional arrangements
to implement the PE reform and privatization program; (iii)
effectiveness of staffing of ESTU and DGIPE; (iv) progress in
implementing the work program for Parts A and B of the Project, (v)
need for further institutional and legal changes to ensure
implementation of the reform program; (vi) review of recommendations
of the various studies; (vii) liquidations carried out, (viii)
preview of enterprises which have been on sale for a period of at
least twelve months and for which no offers have been submitted or
whose offers were declared unsatisfactory by the Borrower, and (ix)
progress in implementing the restructuring plans for the 5 PEs
referred to in Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part A of the Project
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
review by January 1 of each year, the draft annual privatization
program with explicit targets, including the timetable and agenda
for implementation and the steps to be followed to bring enterprises
to the point of sale.
(b)   The Borrower shall by November 30 of each year, review
with the Association progress in the implementation of Part A of the
Project, with particular attention to those enterprises for which


﻿- 21 -
offers were either not made or deemed unsatisfactory by the Borrower
during the period.
(c)   The Borrower shall, commencing June 30, 1993, furnish
quarterly   information  to   the   Association   on   all  final
recommendations for sale of PEs that were rejected by PRPC, with the
reasons for such rejection.
(d)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
information, draft contracts for the sale of assets or draft
prospectus for the sale of shares when the preparatory privatization
work is complete and the PE is ready to be announced for sale. The
Borrower shall furnish the final contracts and prospectus once the
transaction has been closed.
6.    ESTU shall use the following methods to conduct preparatory
work on PEs selected for privatization, namely utilizing (a) PITs
consisting of groups of short-term consultants, or (b) contracting
with a merchant bank, other specialized financial institution or
professional firm.
7.    The Borrower shall only undertake predetermined direct sale
negotiations by private treaty after publicly solicited bids have
been obtained, unless otherwise justified by the existence of legal
rights.
8.    The Borrower shall by the time of the Mid-term Review referred
to in Paragraph 4 above, ensure that NSE has selected and
implemented  an   improved  clearing,   settlement   and  central
registration system.
Part B of the Project
9.    The Borrower shall by the time of the Mid-term Review referred
to in Paragraph 4 above: (a) complete the preparation of corporate
plans for at least 10 of the largest PEs; (b) negotiate and execute
performance contracts with at least 5 of the PEs referred to in (a)
above; (c) furnish to the Association the recommendations of the
studies referred to in Part B.2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
including action plans for their implementation; and thereafter
commence implementation of such action plans satisfactory to the
Association.
10.   The Borrower shall commencing June 30, 1993, furnish quarterly
reports to the Association on the progress of Part B of the project.


﻿- 22 -
11.   The Borrower shall by the mid-term review, complete the
preparation of a comprehensive five year PE reform program and
furnish such program to the Association for its review and comments.
12.   The Borrower shall, for Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya
Ports Authority, the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation,
National Cereals and Produce Board and the Kenya Tea Development
Authority implement the action programs in the Annexes to this
Schedule.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX A
Kenya Railways Corporation Restructuring Plan and Actions
A.    Corporate Governance:                     Target Completion Date:
1.    Enabling laws and Board powers            December 31, 1993
2.    Performance Contract between              December 31, 1993
Kenya Railways and Borrower
3.    Borrower payment of compensation          March 30, 1994
to KRC for loss-making services
4.    Establishment of passenger services       March 31, 1994
as financially autonomous business
within Kenya Railways
B.    Efficient Operations:
1.    Implementation of new locomotive          June 30, 1994
maintenance delivery option
2.    Introduction of foreign exchange          December 31, 1993
retention for spare parts procurement
3.    Rationalization of labor force            June 30, 1994
through safety net
C.    Financial Structure:
1.    Restructuring of Kenya Railways           February 28, 1994
debts
2.    Preparation of land sale program          June 30, 1993
completed


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX B
Kenya Ports Authority Restructuring Plan and Actions
A.    Governance:                               Target Completion Date:
1.    Enabling laws/Board powers for            December 31, 1993
Kenya Ports Authority
2.    Performance Contract Kenya Ports          December 31, 1993
Authority/Borrower
3.    Implementation of tariff review           June 30, 1993
body study recommendations
4.    New Kenya Ports Authority tariff          December 31, 1993
introduced
B.    Efficiency Restructuring:
1.    Equipment maintenance contract(s)         July 31, 1994
awarded to the private sector
2.    Introduction of Foreign Exchange          June 30, 1993
retention scheme
3.    Rationalization of labor                  December 31, 1993
through a safety net
4.    Introduction of performance-              December 31, 1993
based compensation system
5.    Empower Kenya Ports Authority to          December 31, 1993
contract stevedoring to private
sector
6.    Privatization and development             December 31, 1994
of land-based activities


﻿- 25 -
ANNEX C
Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Restructuring Plan and Actions
Action            Target Completion Date
A.    Short Term Program
1.    Financial Aspects       Undertake         December 31, 1993
financial
restructuring
to ensure
overall
financial
objectives
are met
consistent
with per-
formance
contract
2.    Operational Aspects     Achieve improve- December 31, 1994
ment in operating
targets consistent
with performance
contract
B.    Organization:
1.    Change of Corporate     Draw up program   June 30, 1993
Culture                 to change cor-
porate culture
to make it more
business-oriented
2.    Manpower Development    Develop manpower December 31, 1994
planning and
development
system


﻿- 26 -
Action            Target Completion Date
C.    Legal /Requlatory:
1.    Performance Contract   Draw up a per-    June 30, 1993
formance con-
tract between
the Borrower
and KPTC
2.    Tariff Policy          Define tariff     September 30, 1993
policy
D.    Market Liberalization:
Draw up and       December 31, 1993
implement a
program for
liberalization
in the telecom-
munications
sector,
including terminal
equipment, mobile
services and value
added services


﻿- 27 -
Action            Target Completion Date
E.    Separation of Posts &
Telecommunications:
(a) Study, and   December 31, 1993
produce
detailed
policy
proposals
on, separa-
tion of
posts and
telecom-
munications,
including possi-
bilities of
divestiture to
private sector,
and comprising
policy
legislative,
licensing
and regulatory
framework
(b) Obtain cabinet      June 30, 1994
approval for
above proposals
(c) Submit approved     December 31, 1994
proposals to
Parliament
for action


﻿- 28 -
Action            Target Completion Date
F.    Divestiture of Gilgil
Manufacturing Facility:
Based on Maxwell       December 31, 1993
Stamp Study
recommendations
and subsequent
separation of the
Gilgil Facility:
(a) Identify options
for divestiture
of Gilgil to
private sector,
with specific
recommendations; and
(b) adopt and implement
recommendations


﻿- 29 -
ANNEX D
National Cereals and Produce Board Restructuring Plan and Action2s
Target Completion Date
A.    Shift to Buyer and
Seller of Last Resort
(BSLR)
1.    Inclusion of BSLR policy                       June 1993
in revised performance
contract, and training
in BSLR management
2.    Study on buffer stock                          April 1993
and funding
B.    Domestic Wheat Decontrol
1.    Study to be undertaken to                      April 1993
highlight the effect of
decontrol
2.    Adoption in revised per-                       June 1993
formance contract for
fiscal year 1993/1994
of most appropriate
decontrol measure
arising from recommenda-
tions of study
C.    Pricing Policy
Implementation of pricing                      June 1993
policy as outlined in
performance contract


﻿- 30 -
Taraet Completion Date
D.    Scaling down National
Cereal and Produce Board
Implementation of scaling                      Continuous, in
down as outlined in per-                       conformity with
formance contract                              timetable in
performance con-
tract
E.    External Trade
Liberalization
h study to determine                           May 1993
arguments for and
against liberalization
of external trade
F.    Modification of Performance
Contract
Adoption of new version                        June 1993 and
of performance contract                        annually there-
following adoption of                          after
next version by
December 31, 1992


﻿- 31 -
ANNEX E
Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA) Restructuring Plan and Actions
Target Completion Date
A.    Governance
1.    Publish a Policy Statement                     June 30, 1993
on the tea sector, including
divestiture of KTDA Share-
holding and control in tea
factories, and define appro-
priate roles of Borrower,
the Kenya Tea Board and
private sector, including
KTDA
2.    Prepare legislative and                        December 31, 1993
regulatory changes
necessary to implement
policy
B.    Internal Reorganization
1.    Re-examine and clarify                         June 30, 1994
ownership of KTDA in light
of A.1 above, and implement
new ownership structure
2.    Prepare and execute commercial                 June 30, 1994
contracts for social services
(e.g. extension services) between
Borrower and KTDA
3.    Receive proposals from KTDA                    June 30, 1994
for internal restructuring
of KTDA and reach agreement


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a),
(2)(a) and (3)(a) for Special Account A, and (1)(b), (2)(b) and
(3)(b) for Special Account B set forth in the table in paragraph I
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 for Special Accounts A and B respectively
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account concerned pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account concerned has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account concerned shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the respective Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For  replenishment   of  the   Special  Account
concerned, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the
Special Account concerned at such intervals as
the Association shall specify.


﻿- 33 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account concerned such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Special Account
concerned for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions   of paragraph   3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation concerned.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 34 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account concerned as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
concerned (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account concerned shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


