CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2440 KE
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Pamtstatal Reform and Privatization
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3 , 1997


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2440 KE
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) By the Development Credit Agreement dated December 28, 1992
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,100,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to amend the Development
Credit Agreement to, inter alia, expand the scope of coverage of the Project, and the
Association, after due consideration, has agreed to this request;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree to the following amendments
to the Development Credit Agreement:
ARTICLE II
The Credit
(i)    Section 2.02 (b) is deleted and replaced with the following:
"Section 2.02. (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars one special deposit account in the Central Bank of Kenya on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit
Agreement, as amended by this Agreement."
(ii)   Section 2.03 is deleted and replaced with the following:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date."


﻿-2-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
(i)    Section 3.03 is deleted and replaced with the following:
"Section 3.03. The Borrower shall bring to the point of sale the public enterprises
referred to in the letter from the Borrower to the Association dated June 3, 1997. For the
purposes of this Agreement, "to bring to the point of sale" means that for the public
enterprise concerned, ESTU shall have completed the valuation of the assets, liabilities and
evaluation of such public enterprise, prepared the strategy for privatization, determined the
modality for sale and invited the winning bidder to negotiate the sale. In the case of the
existence of preexisting legal rights, "to bring to the point of sale" means prepared,
advertised, issued the prospectus or tender document and issued necessary advertisements
and notices."
(ii)   A new Section 3,)6 is hereby added to read as follows:
"Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than June 30, 1997 and January 31, 1998, furnish to the
Association a list of public enterprises, satisfactory to the Association, to be privatized that
year; and
(b)    thereafter take all necessary measures to bring to the point of sale all such
public enterprises following procedures acceptable to the Association."


﻿-3-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
deleted and substituted with the following:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)    Consultants'                 13,380,000        100%
services
(2)    Training                        350,000        100%
(3)    Equipment and vehicles         400,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4)    Refunding of                  1,470,000
Project
Preparation
Advance
(5)    Unallocated                     300,000
TOTAL                        16,100,000


﻿-4-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Schedule 2 is deleted and substituted with the following:
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's public enterprise
reform and privatization program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
1.    Institutional Support for ESTU
(a)    Strengthening and capacity building for ESTU/DGIPE's management and
staff, in the areas of privatization and public enterprise reform, monitoring and control of
public enterprises, including financial restructuring.
(b)    Carrying out marketing and publicity campaigns for privatization.
(c)    Acquisition of office equipment, computers and vehicles.
2.     Divestiture of Selected Public Enterprises
Carrying out a privatization program of the Borrower's public enterprises.
3.     Studies, Investment Promotion and Training
(a)    Undertaking such studies as may emanate from the overall program of
reform within the parastatal sector, with particular emphasis on subsectors that directly
affect the financial performance of the economy, e.g., coffee, tea, sugar and tourism.
(b)    Undertaking promotion to attract local and international buyers, both for
companies being privatized and within the overall framework of increased investment for
promotion of employment.


﻿-5-
(c)    Providing training in selected areas to staff of enterprises and ministries
and other organizations directly involved in the privatization, management and reform of
public enterprises.
4.     Sector-Wide Reform Actions
(a)    Conducting a study and introducing an ongoing mechanism for the
reduction of cross-debts between public enterprises and other entities.
(b)    Strengthening financial analysis and loan/debt monitoring at DGIPE.
(c)    Monitoring "hard budget" amounts for strategic parastatals.
(d)    Developing a local capacity for share flotation and issuance.
5.     Restructuring of Major Public Enterprises
Assist DGIPE and the concerned public enterprises to: design, monitor, coordinate
and implement restructuring actions for Kenya Railways, Kenya Post and
Telecommunications, Kenya Tea Development Authority, Kenya Ports Authority, National
Cereals and Produce Board, and any other strategic public enterprise.
6.     Related Institutions
(a)    Development of a Management Information System for the Companies'
Registry within the Registrar General's Department.
(b)    Training of the Auditor General's Staff, including those of the state
corporations.
(c)    Training of the Attorney General's staff in areas of direct relevance to
privatization, international company/commercial law and legislative drafting.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997."


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Schedule 4 is deleted and replaced with the following new Schedule 4:
"SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.     ESTU shall be responsible for implementation of the Project, under the direction of
the Investment Secretary. ESTU shall have the primary role and responsibility for
privatization; DGIPE shall have the primary role and responsibility for parastatal reform
and restructuring.
2.     (a)    The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than one year after
effectiveness, and thereafter on a yearly basis, discuss and agree upon: (i) yearly work
programs/objectives, including detailed monitorable targets, by name of organization and/or
total number of organizations; (ii) detailed procurement plans, including listing of TORs
required, and long lists of companies; and (iii) remedial actions within the power of
DGIPE/ESTU to meet overall program objectives.
(b)    The Borrower shall thereafter carry out the activities referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) above, taking into account the commerts of the Association.
3.     A combined ESTU/DGIPE quarterly progress report shall be furnished to the
Association for review and comment. The report will cover the status of Project
implementation and future activities/work plans for the execution of the Project during the
following six months, in line with the agreed annual targets/objectives.
4.     The Borrower shall, by November 30 in each year, discuss and agree with the
Association on training programs for ESTU and DGIPE, respectively, for the following
year.
5.     The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for information, draft contracts for
the sale of assets or draft prospectus for the sale of shares whe" the preparatory
privatization work is complete and the public enterprise is ready to be announced for sale.
The Borrower shall furnish the final contracts and prospectus once the transaction has been
closed.


﻿-7-
6.     ESTU shall use the following methods to conduct preparatory work on public
enterprises selected for privatization, namely: (a) utilizing PITs consisting of groups of
short-term consultants, or (b) contracting with a merchant bank, other specialized financial
institution or professional firm.
7.     The Borrower shall only undertake predetermined direct sale negotiations by
private treaty after publicly solicited bids have been obtained, unless otherwise justified by
the existence of legal rights.
8.     The Borrower shall carry out its privatization program in a transparent manner. In
particular, the Borrower shall follow the principles, procedures and guidelines for
privatization, as detailed in its Policy Paper on Public Enterprise Reforms and Privatization,
dated October 1994, as issued by the Ministry of Finance."


﻿SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
(i)    Paragraph I (a) of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is
deleted and replaced with the following:
"(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to the Agreement Amending Development Credit
Agreement."
(ii)   Paragraph I (c) of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is
deleted and replaced with the following:
"(c)   the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule."


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Nairobi, Kenya, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Musalia Mudavadi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Harold E. Wackman
Harold E. Wackman
Country Director
Kenya & Djibouti


