FILE COPY
Report No. 1513-SYR
Appraisal of an Education Project in the
Syrian Arab Republic
May 26, 1977
Education and Manpower Development Division
Furope, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of tihe World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Curre'Lcy E4uivalents
US$1.00            =            L.S.  3.95
L.S.1.00           =             US$0.25
Measures
2 m            =             10.76 scq. feet
J, km2            -              0.38 sq. mile
,1 hectare  (ha)                  2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......................................                     i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......... ....                 ..............................             1
II.  COUNTRY BACKGROUND .......................                                                  1
Physical Environment, Population and
Economic Development                      . ..                ............    1
Labor Force and Employment  ............................. .                             2
Future Manpower  Supply  and Demand  .....               .......... .                   2
III.     EDUCATION AND M5ANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  ......................                              3
The Present  System           ..................................... .                   3
Educational  Issues  ....... .  ............................. .                         4
Educational Development  Strategy  ........................                             5
Summary Assessment of Strategy  .....rategy.............. .                             7
Education Finance   ...................................... .                            8
IV.    THE PROJECT  .............................................                              10
Primary Teacher Training Colleges  ....... ..                     ..............       10
Intermediate Teacher Training  Institute                      .................        11
Intermediate Technical  Institutes  ..... .......... .                                 11
Vocational Training Centers  .............................                             12
Technical Assistance  .......                .............................             13
Cost  of  the Project  .......              ..............................             13
Financial  Plan               ..........................................               14
Implementation                ..........................................               15
Designs           .................................................                    15
Sites         ...................................................                      16
Procurement              .............................................                 16
Disbursements                ...........................................               17
V.    BENEFITS  AND RISKS  ......................................                             17
VI.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED A4D RECOMMENDATION  ...................                              18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily it the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. The Education and Training System
Chart I - Organization of the Ministry of Education
Chart 2 - Structure of the Education System, 1975/1976
Chart 3 - Education Pyramid 1974/75
3. Employment and Labor Force by Sector, 1971-1975
4. Skilled Manpower Requirements, 1976-1985
5. Formal Education Development, 1969/70 - 1984/85
6. The Establishment of a National Council for Vocational Training
and Technical Education
7. Public Expenditures on Education, 1972-1976
8. Ministry of Education Expenditures in 1975 by Level of Expenditure
and Type of Education
9. Projection of Public Expenditures on Education, 1975-1985
10. Additional Teachers Required to 1985
11. Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in
Project Institutions
12. Primary Teacher Training by Regions, 1974/75
13. Schedule of Technical Assistance
14. Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
15. Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student
16. Contingency Allowances
17. Implementation Schedule
18. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



CLOSSARY
MOE               -      _Ministry of Education
MOHE             -           Ministry of Higher Education
MOI              -           Ministry of Industry
UNRWA            -           United Nations Relief and Works Agency






SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Basic Data (1975)-
Total Population                              7.4 million
Current Rate of Population Growth             3.3% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                US$660'2
Literacy Rate                                 53%
Primary School Enrollment as a                   /3
Percentage of Age Group 6-11                897%-
Lower Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 12-14              55a/3
Upper Secondary School Enrollment                 /3
as a PercentaRe of ARe Group 15-17             32a/
Higher Education Enrollment as a                 /3
Percentage of Age Group 18-22               127%-
Central Government Expenditures on            13.2% recurrent
Education as a Percentage of Total           2.1% capital
Government Expenditures                      6.9% total
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP             3.6%
/1 See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
/2 World Bank Atlas.
/3  Gross enrollment






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In response to strong social demand as well as the needs of the
country's expanding economy, enrollments at all levels of Syria's education
and training system have grown significantly over the past decade. As a result,
gross enrollment ratios (89% in primary, 55% in lower secondary, 32% in upper
secondary and 12% in higher education) now compare favorably with other
countries at a similar stage of development. This quantitative expansion,
achieved with relatively modest education expenditures, conceals, however,
serious imbalances and deficiencies in educational provision.
ii.       The urgent demand for education and training places has been met
frequently on an ad-hoc basis through the acquisition or rental of substandard
buildings, or through the use of buildings which are not functionally suitable.
About 40% of primary and secondary schools were not built as schools and
almost 30% are rented; laboratories, workshops, libraries and equipment are
almost non-existent. Difficulties in achieving quality education in these
circumstances are compounded by the generally low standards of teaching, due
in the main to the inadequate teacher training facilities. Furthermore, sig-
nificant disparities in educational opportunities exist by region and more
markedly in terms of distribution by sex and between urban and rural areas.
Enrollments of girls at primary and lower secondary levels vary from as low as
8% and 3% of total enrollments in rural Deir-ez-Zor to 49% and 44% in Damascus
city, against the national averages of 39% and 31%, respectively. A further
imbalance lies in the high proportion of students proceeding to upper secondary
general education. Because of open access to universities for secondary
general graduates, this multiplies the difficulties for the higher education
system, which is already overburdened and is not adequately related to the
country's manpower training needs. Finally, while there is an urgent need for
well-equipped facilities for the training of skilled workers and technicians,
the absence of a national body to coordinate such training, in view of the
many ministries currently involved, is likely to have serious consequences
in terms of fragmentation and wasteful duplication of resources.
iii.      The proposed project would assist the government in redressing some
of these deficiencies in priority areas by: (i) improving the quality and
relevance of education through support of curricula reforms, and the provi-
sion of new teacher training facilities; (ii) helping to meet manpower needs
through training of semi-skilled and skilled workers and technicians; and
(iii) institution building through support for the establishment of national
machinery to plan and coordinate skill training. The project would include:
(a) construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
for:
-     5 Primary Teacher Training Colleges
-     1 Intermediate Teacher Training Institute
-     3 Intermediate Technical Institutes
-     2 Vocational Training Centers and



- ii -
(b) technical assistance for the establishment of a national
coordinating body for vocational training and technical
education.
iv.       The various project items are under the administration of the
Ministry of Education, except for the vocational training centers under
the Ministry of Industry. As each ministry's items are irndependent of the
other ministry's items, they can be implemented separately. Therefore, to
simplify project management and to place responsibility for project imple-
mentation directly on each beneficiary, each ministry would be responsible
for the implementation of its own project items. Satisfactory implementation
machinery has been established by both ministries and the staff required have
been appointed.
v.        Detailed lists and specifications for furniture and equipment would
be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procurement. Equip-
ment and furniture items (amounting to US$16.2 million including contingencies)
for procurement would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded
in accordance with Bank guidelines, on the basis of international competitive
bidding, except for items which can only be grouped in small packages (under
US$50,000), items which must be compatible with other equipment procured under
ICB and items of such specialized nature that ICB would not be practical.
These items, which would not exceed an aggregate total of 20% of the total
cost of each ministry's furniture and equipment items (or US$3.3 million for
the total project), would be procured under normal government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would include to the
extent feasible price quotations from at least three manufacturers or sup-
pliers. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local
manufacturers of equipment and furniture would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicabLe to competing
imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts
(amounting to US$22.8 million including contingencies) would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
vi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$40.3 million and the
foreign exchange component at US$20.5 million. Subject to the conditions
described in para. 6.01, the project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan
of US$20.0 million to the Syrian Arab Republic, for a term of 20 years in-
cluding a grace period of 3-1/2 years.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank mission visited Syria in October/November 1975 to investigate
the needs of the education and training system and to identify project items
suitable for Bank financing. Its recommendations were discussed with the
government in June 1976, and in June/July 1976, following agreement with the
government on possible project content, a Bank mission assisted the government
in preparing the project for appraisal. The project (estimated to cost US$40.3
million for which a Bank loan of US$20 million is proposed) was appraised in
November 1976 by a mission comprising Messrs. C.N. Lindsay (facilities planner,
mission leader), V. DeSa (technical educator), W. Rees (economist), R. Savas
(agricultural educator), S. Futagami (mass media specialist) and J. St.
Germain (architect, consultant).
1.02      Subsequent to appraisal it was decided to exclude a proposed Educa-
tional Materials Production Center and an agricultural training center from
the project as the preparation of these items was not sufficiently advanced.
Due to severe short-term budgetary constraints in Syria, the scope of the
project was reduced further during negotiations at the request of the gov-
ernment to exclude (i) the construction of a network of primary and lower
secondary schools proposed for the four poorest regions; and (ii) the
equipping of an educational television studio.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment, Population and Economic Development
2.01      The Syrian Arab Republic has a land area of about 185,000 km2 and a
harsh geography and climate which render just over half (97,000 km2) of the
land area uninhabitable. Of the 8.8 million ha of cultivable land, less than
one-third is under continuous cultivation and only about one-quarter of the
two million ha of irrigable land is actually irrigated. Syria's population
(7.4 million in 1975) is concentrated mainly along the coast and in the strip
east of Lebanon, following the pattern of rainfall and the availability of
cultivable land. Population is currently growing at the high rate of about
3.3% p.a. and in 1975 49.3% of the population was under 15 years (there are no
indications that the government intends to introduce demographic policies to
check this growth). Urban population is growing at about 5% p.a. compared
with a rural annual growth of about 2.2%, with Damascus as the main focus of
internal migration. A shift of population towards the north central region
is expected, however, as irrigation, land reclamation and other development
schemes in the Euphrates Basin are expanded.
2.02      Major reforms within the Syrian economy in the 1960s aimed at a
large scale redistribution of land to formerly landless peasants and estab-
lished the dominance of the public sector in the economy. These reforms
together with pragmatic and flexible economic policies provided the basis
for the rapidly expanding economy of the 1970s. Between 1970 and 1975, GDP
increased at an average annual rate of 7.7% in real terms although there was



considerable fluctuation from year to year within the period. The contribu-
tion of agriculture to GDP has averaged around 21% in the period 1971-1975
although output, being largely dependent upon rather erratic rainfall, is
subject to considerable fluctuation. The industrial sector (mining, manu-
facturing and construction) grew at 12% p.a. during 1970-1975 and in 1975
accounted for 34% of GDP (at current factor cost) compared with 22% in 1970.
Construction has been a particularly dynamic sector in recent years with a
real growth rate of 16% p.a. between 1970 and 1975.
2.03      Syria's development policies are implemented within the framework of
quinquennial planning. The third five-year plan (1971-1975) specifically gave
priority to: (a) development of agriculture through greatly enlarged irriga-
tion schemes (particularly through the massive development program for the
Euphrates Basin), diversification of crop and livestock production, introduc-
tion of more modern production technologies and improvements in organization
through the development of cooperatives; and (b) expansion and modernization
of the industrial sector with special emphasis on industries linked to agri-
culture or using other domestic raw materials (food processing, textiles,
fertilizers, tractors and agricultural implements, cement, petro-chemicals).
These basic strategies and objectives, with increased emphasis on industrial-
ization and the attendant need for an upgraded and expanded skilled work
force, have been carried over to the fourth plan (1976-1980).
Labor Force and Employment
2.04      The education profile of the Syrian labor force is still very
modest. At the 1970 census, 48.2% of the labor force was classified as
illiterate while only 20.9% had at least.a primary certificate and only 6.0%
had attained at least a secondary certificate.
2.05      Agriculture is still the major employer of labor in Syria although
its share of total employment is falling steadily -- from 69% in 1968 to 51%
in 1975 (Annex 3). Manufacturing currently accounts for nearly 12% of total
employment, building and construction 7%, commerce 11% and services 14%. The
occupational structure of the labor force shows that 4.8% are employed in pro-
fessional, technical and managerial positions, including only 0.5% classified
as technicians. Clerical and sales employment accounts for 14.5%. Production
and related workers account for 27.8% of employment including an estimated
6.9% classified as craftsmen. The relative scarcity of technicians and crafts-
men compared with professional, clerical and other skilled workers constitutes
a manpower imbalance which must be corrected if the current growth of produc-
tivity and output is to be maintained. In the past, this shortage was further
aggravated by emigration of skilled manpower which is still a significant prob-
lem in Syria although difficult to quantify, and one which creates particular
uncertainties in forecasting future manpower needs.
Future Manpower Supply and Demand
2.06      A national manpower study is currently being undertaken in Syria but
results will not be available before end-1977, at the earliest. A preliminary



- 3 -
projection of annual manpower demand was prepared by the mission and is re-
produced in Annex 4. The table below summarizes for broad occupational groups
the priority manpower needs to 1985, together with the system's estimated out-
puts in 1975:
Projected Annual Demand & Supply for Skilled Manpower 1976-1985
Projected Annual  Output from the   Annual Output from
Average Demand   Education System  Proposed Education
1976-1985            in 1975             Project
New    Replacement
Engineering
technicians              2,600 /1           2,000          440           -
Primary teachers           4,000              2,534          550         450
Practical subject
teachers (pre-
paratory)                  400                215          110          90
Technical/vocational
instructors                350                130          220           -
Craftsmen                 15,500 /1           4,200        1,600
/1   Of which about 10-15% would be required for the agricultural sector.
2.07      While confirming the urgent need for expansion of vocational train-
ing, teacher education and technician training, the above figures, by their
nature, do not reveal the need for qualitative improvements and diversifica-
tion of programs. Inadequate planning and/or insufficient allocation of funds
have frequently resulted in training being conducted in substandard and poorly
equipped buildings (para. 3.04 below). Gradual replacement of substandard
places will be necessary at all levels, as well as provision of new special-
izations required by the growing technological sophistication of the Syrian
industry, in particular, construction technology and surveying, instrumentation
control and automation, chemical technology, materials handling techniques and
mechanical power.
III. EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
The Present System
3.01      Administration:  The MOE and the MOHE are primarily responsible for
education in Syria. The public sector had 94% of total enrollments at the



- 4 -
primary and secondary levels in 1974/75 with 2% enrolled in UNRWiA schools and
the balance of 4% in the private sectoro down from 14% in 1964/65. The central
authorities define policy guidelines and major programs but otherwise adminis-
tration of primary and general secondary education is effectively devolved to
the regional authorities. In addition to the education ministries, many other
ministries are also active in training related to their specialized fields
(Annex 2).
3.02      Structure:  Annex 2, Chart 2, depicts the structure of the education
system. Six years of compulsory education (grades 1-6) are followed by three
years of lower secondary (grades 7-9) and three years of upper secondary
(grades 10-12). The upper secondary level consists of general secondary
schools preparing students for higher education and technical secondary
schools (industrial, commercial, agricultural, home economics and nursing)
leading to direct employment or technician education. Technicians are trained
at the post-secondary level in two-year technical institutes. Degree courses
are offered in a higher technical institute with a four-year program and in
universities with four to six year programs.
3.03      Enrollments at all educational levels have grown significantly over
the past decade as a result of social demand as well as in response to the
country's needs for a better educated work force. Since 1969/70 enrollments
have increased by 43% at primary level, 52% at lower secondary level and 65%
at upper secondary level (Annex 5). Primary school gross enrollments now
represent 89% of the age group and lower secondary, upper secondary and
higher education enrollments, 55%, 32% and 12%, respectively. Enrollments
in universities had been relatively static in the five years to 1969/70 but
grew in the next five years by 66% following a decree opening the universities
to all general secondary baccalaureate holders. Efficiency overall is satis-
factory but repetition rates in grades 9 and 12 are abnormally high; in the
latter case due to the numbers of repeaters seeking their baccalaureates for
university entrance.
Educational Issues
3.04      This commendable progress, achieved with relatively modest education
expenditures of 3.6% - 4.3% of GDP annually, over the past five years, con-
ceals, however, serious deficiencies in the quality of educational provision
as well as problems of equity. The majority of school buildings are ill-
adapted for education purposes while in many areas there is a severe shortage
of school places which causes classrooms and schools to be grossly over-
crowded. Furthermore, over 40% of the buildings were not built as schools
and almost 30% are rented. In particular, the rural primary school buildings
in the poorer regions are of the most primitive type frequently provided
through local initiative in the form of one or two rooms of clay construction.
At the secondary level, laboratories, workshops and libraries are almost non-
existent. Even in recent construction, the practical spaces are limited and
unsuitable for modern teaching purposes as well as being inadequately equipped.
As a result, teachers are forced to resort to passive teaching methods and the
modernization of curricula and their re-orientation towards more practical and



- 5 -
experimental activities are severely constrained. Difficulties in developing
quality education in these circumstances are aggravated by generally low stan-
dards of teaching, due in the main to inadequate teacher training facilities.
In addition, while 94% of the permanent primary teachers are trained, about
28% of the teaching force are unqualified temporary appointees; the percentage
of temporary teachers is 47% for the three poorest mohafazats as against 12%
for Damascus city. Similarly, at the secondary level, while some 77% of the
permanent secondary teachers in public secondary schools in 1974/75 had a
university degree, only 17% had some pedagogical training.
3.05      The above-mentioned deficiencies affect most severely the poorest
mohafazats where also there are still significant disparities in distribution
of education opportunities. The participation rates at primary and lower
secondary levels are as low as 66% and 34% in Al-Hasakeh, against the national
averages of 89% and 55%, respectively. The disparities become more marked
when differentiated by sex and between urban and rural areas. Female enroll-
ments as a percentage of total enrollments at primary and lower secondary
levels, vary from as low as 8% and 3% in rural Deir-ez-Zor to 49% and 44% in
Damascus city, against the national averages of 39% and 31%, respectively.
3.06      While provision for practical activities is included in primary
and lower secondary level curricula, teaching tends to be academically biased
and theoretical. This bias is even stronger in the upper secondary general
schools, which are exclusively oriented towards university entrance. Cur-
rently 81% of lower secondary graduates proceed to upper general secondary
education, the graduates of which have open access into higher education. The
pressures created thereby are placing an inordinate burden on universities
already constrained by a shortage of suitable teaching facilities and instruc-
tional equipment as well as a critical shortage of teachers.
Educational Development Strategy
3.07      The government's development strategy in education, as outlined in
the Third Plan, 1971-1975 and in the Fourth Development Plan, 1976-1980, is
directed towards promoting equity, quality and relevance of education, while
also pursuing a better adaptation of the system to the manpower training
needs of the economy.
3.08      Generalization of basic education:  An immediate target is to
enroll all 6-year-old boys in primary education by 1980 and all 6-year-old
girls by 1990; current intake is 90% for boys and 68% for girls. The
government's ultimate target is a basic education cycle of nine years for all
and already progression rates from primary to lower secondary have reached a
high 94.8% and 88.8% for boys and girls, respectively, successfully completing
primary education. At the same time, the government proposes to intensify the
literacy campaign to combat the current 47% adult illiteracy. The effective-
ness of the present campaign, which was initiated in 1972, has been disappoint-
ing and enrollments in literacy classes have declined from a peak of about
18,000 in 1972 to about 11,000 in 1975. Current measures are being reviewed
following a decision in a recent conference of Arab countries to combat
illiteracy on a broad front with a view to its elimination by the mid-1980s.



- 6 -
3.09      Improvements in quality:  New school facilities are being provided
under a major construction program to meet expansion needs and to replace
unsuitable accommodation. New primary teacher training colleges being
established on a regional basis tnder the program will bring the number of
training places to 8,500-9,000 by 1980, adequate to supply the 4,000 teachers
required annually. The program of in-service training for primary teachers
under the direction of the Unesco/Unicef center in Amman will be strengthened
and extended. New and expanded facilities are also being provided for the
School of Education of the University of Damascus, which provides pedagogical
training for secondary school teachers, and this should in time redress
training deficiencies in the secondary teaching force. To further assist in
improving the quality of education, the government proposes (i) to expand
educational TV to all regions of the country, commencing with secondary
schools in the period to 1980 anc extending to all primary schools in the
subsequent five years; and (ii) in view of current deficiencies in the avail-
ability of educational aids, to establish an educational materials production
center to produce simple science and handicraft materials and equipment for
use in primary and secondary schcols. The government has provided an assurance
that a preinvestment study for the proposed educational materials production
center would be completed not later than December 31, 1978.
3.10      Reorientation of education:  The practical subjects at the primary
and secondary levels will be strengthened and extended. The government's
intention is to awaken students' interest in practical activities (which will
be reinforced in the "pioneer" summer camps attended by all students in the
upper grades of primary school); to prepare those students who will terminate
their schooling after grade 9 for the world of work or for further job-oriented
training; and, through such reorientation, to strengthen efforts being made to
increase the proportion of lower secondary graduates proceeding to secondary
technical schools from 16% to 25% (while decreasing the proportion proceeding
to general secondary schools from 81% to 50%) by 1980. Other measures being
taken in this latter respect include: not admitting to secondary general
schools the "overaged" or those receiving low passing grades in the lower
secondary terminal examination; payment of a stipend to secondary technical
school students; issuance of a decree requiring industry to absorb the
baccalaureates of the industrial secondary schools; and the establishment of
new intermediate institutes in three further regions, linked with the second-
ary technical schools in those regions and thus providing better access to
post-secondary non-university education for the secondary technical graduates.
3.11      Meeting manpower training needs:  To assist in meeting the country's
development needs for skilled and semi-skilled workers and technicians (i) the
annual output of skilled workers available for employment from the secondary
technical schools will be increased from 3,200 in 1975 to about 7,000 in 1985;
(ii) the output of skilled and semi-skilled workers from the vocational train-
ing centers under the MOI will be increased from about 1,000 in 1975 to over
2,500 in 1981 through the provision of two new centers proposed for financing
under the project; and (iii) three new intermediate technical institutes under
the MOE, proposed for financing under the project, will provide an annual out-
put of 660 to meet instructor needs for the secondary technical schools and



vocational training centers as well as to meet the industry's need for new
specializations.
Summary Assessment of Strategy
3.12      The above measures, for the implementation of which the country
has the necessary administrative and financial (para. 3.19) capabilities,
should significantly redress current deficiencies and imbalances within the
education system. As Syria attempts to achieve universal primary education,
the measures being taken need to be extended and intensified in the more
remote rural areas to resolve complex problems. socio--economic and cultural,
which militate in particular against the schooling of girls. 'rhe availability
of women teachers for these areas wouid overcome one major obstacle to improved
female participation and measures to enroll more women in teacher training in
the poorer regions (68% of all new trainees in 1975/76 were women) should
prove helpful in this respect.  Fuzther supportive measures would be the reduc-
tion, to the extent required, under improved school location planning of the
number of one-teacher schools in the areas where it is not acceptable to
have male teachers for girls and vice versa, and the provision of simple
living accommodation for women in villages where accommodation is not avail-
able (normally through the provision of an additional classroom). At the
same time, effective school location planning, accompanied by adequate local
consultation and with due regard for demographic constraints and political
realities, would also assist in maximizing investment beneFits at a stage
when Syria is embarking on a massive school building program.  The government
has provided an assurance that procedures for school mapping would be developed
and school mapping conducted on a selected basis for primary and secondary
schools, not later than December 31, 1978.
3.13      Plans for the expansion orf training facilities generally respond
to economic development needs. However, the absence of a national body to
regulate, coordinate and rationalize training activities is likely to have
serious consequences in terms of fragmentation and wasteful duplication of
training provisions and lack of standardization of qualifications. At the
technician training level, the hasty establishment of new intermediate ins-
titutes under a variety of ministries has often been based on inadequate
planning, which has resulted in a lack of adequate facilities and of suitably
qualified staff as well as insufficient definition of training needs. At the
skilled worker level, considerable overlap exists between the training
activities of the Ministries of Industry and of Public Works. It is understood
that the government is considering the establishment of a National Council
for Vocational Training and Technical Education. There is an urgent need to
establish such a Council, or other suitable coordinating body, which should
include representatives of the employers and the main ministries/agencies
concerned with training activities, and be responsible through a well-staffed
Directorate General for (a) formulating a comprehensive plan for vocational
training and technical education; (b) coordinating the establishment of
training facilitLes and all skilled worker and technician programs; (c) fore-
casting skill requirements in the context of national development programs;
(d) establishing skill training standards, trade testing and certification;



- 8 -
and (e) establishing a follow-up system to trace placement: and performance
of the graduates of all skill training institutions. Thegovernment has
provided an assurance that a suitable coordinating body on such basis, with
an executive branch, would be established by July 1, 1978.. Until then, the
State Planning Commission would be responsible for coordination. The Commis-
sion would be assisted by a working group, composed of representatives of the
various ministries concerned with training, which would be responsible also
for preparing for the establishment of the national body. Four specialists
(4-1/2 man/years) proposed under the technical assistance program would assist
in setting up the national body and in training counterparts who would sub-
sequently form the nucleus of a Directorate which would serve as the executive
branch of the national body (Annex 6).
3.14      At the higher education level, there is a need to stabilize under-
graduate enrollments in faculties that have small promise for the employment
of their graduates. The measures being taken by the government -- the re-
duction in the percentage of lower secondary graduates proceeding to general
secondary schools and the attempts to channel baccalaureates into intermediate
institutes -- are in themselves unlikely to provide a sufficient brake in the
longer term on the numbers seeking university degree programs. While the
position has not yet become critical, positive action to further restrict
undergraduate enrollments appears necessary if Syria is to avoid not only
expending an undue proportion of its educational budget on higher education
(para. 3.18) but finding itself with a surplus of university graduates who
are unemployable or alternatively overqualified for their jobs.
Education Finance
3.15      Despite the rapid enrollment growth, public expenditures in Syria
have tended to decline relative to total public expenditures and GDP during
1972/75 (Annex 7). In 1975, public recurrent expenditures on education
represented a fairly modest 13.2% of total public recurrent expenditures,
capital expenditures on education absorbed about 2.1% of total capital budget
and total public expenditures or. education were only 3.6% of GDP.
3.16      Although these percentages may be slightly misleading in inter-
national comparisons due to the inflated size of the Syrian public budget
(because of military expenditures), they underscore two important features
of the country's education finances: (a) reLatively low unit recurrent costs
associated with low teachers' salaries, relatively high rates of educational
efficiency, and low expenditures on teaching/learning aids; and (b) heavy
reliance on rented rather than purpose-built facilities to cater for a sub-
stantial proportion of new enrollments.
3.17      This situation has allowed Syria to face the pressures of social
demand without undue stress on the budget but the result has been a decline
in the quality of education. In response to this problem new trends are
emerging which are leading to substantial rises in per capita costs. To
attract and retain better qualified teachers, salaries have been increased
by 200% in universities and up to 80% at lower levels since 1974 and, to
improve and enlarge classroom facilities, a massive capital works program



- 9 -
started in 1976. As a result, education's share of the budget is likely to
have increased to about 11% of total expenditure or around 5.4% of GDP in
1976.
3.18      In terms of distribution of expenditures by level, primary education
accounts for 51.7% of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditures, while
general secondary and technical education take up 35.6% and 4.0% respectively
(Annex 8). These figures demonstrate the traditional lack of priority for
technical schooling in Syria. However, the policy of placing greater emphasis
on technical education in the future should result in the technical schools
receiving 11% of MOE recurrent expenditure by 1985, compared with 33% for
general secondary in the same year (Annex 9). Higher education currently
(1976) accounts for a high 36% of total expenditure on education, but an ex-
pected decline in the rate of growth of enrollments should marginally reduce
the proportion to a still high 35% by 1985.
3.19      Syria has proposed an ambitious set of education plans and their
achievement is dependent on the future growth of the Syrian economy. Assuming
constant real salaries and on the basis of achieving government targets for
the provision of new places and replacement of existing substandard places, it
is estimated that education would account for a reasonable 13% of the national
budget and about 5% of GDP by 1985 1/, leading to the expectation that Syria's
educational objectives could be largely fulfilled. It must be stressed, how-
ever, that even on such assumptions the educational resource ceiling is being
approached. Should GDP grow more slowly than anticipated or the inevitable
upward pressure on still low salary levels lead to significant increases in
unit costs, restraints on educational expenditures and consequent reappraisal
of targets could become necessary.
1/   Assuming that GDP will grow by about 7-8% p.a. during the same period.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would comprise (a) constructing and/or equipping the
following institutions; and (b) related technical assistance:
Estimated
Student Places      Annual   Student
Type of Institution               Grades   Replacement   New    Output   Boarding
General Education:
5 Primary Teacher                 13-14
Training Colleges               10-13      1,270       1,430   1,000      1,940
1 Intermediate Teacher
Training Institute              13-14         200        240      200       -
Vocational & Technical Education:
3 Intermediate Technical
Institutes                      13-14        -         1,440      660
2 Vocational Training             10-14
Centers                         & ungraded   -         1,700   1,600
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (MOE)
4.02      The five colleges would replace existing places currently housed in
secondary schools while adding new places to provide an annual output of about
1,000 teachers -- that is, 25% of the projected total annual requirements of
primary teachers during the period to 1985 (para. 2.06). Not less than half
of the trainees at each location would be women. Three of the colleges --
at Latakia, Tartous and Dara'a -- would have two-year post-secondary programs
while at Al-Rakka and Al-Hasakeh courses would initially extend over four
years following lower secondary education, in view of the limited output of
upper secondary graduates in those regions. Trainees would be enrolled from
within each region -- except for Dara'a which would also cater for the Sweida
region -- with the objective of having teachers take up teaching posts in
their own regions. This policy is aimed primarily at resolving current prob-
lems in assignment of qualified teachers to the poorer regions. Since the
regions are mainly rural with low densities, boarding places would be provided
varying from 60% of enrollments in Latakia and Tartous to 80% in Al-Hasakeh
and Al-Rakka.
4.03      Curricula for the colleges have been revised to take account of the
more practical orientation proposed for primary schools. Three periods per
week would be allocated to training in handcrafts and home management in addi-
tion to two periods per week for the production of simple science and handcraft
material. Two craft experts (6 man/months) proposed under the technical assis-
tance program would develop detailed craft programs and finalize the corre-
sponding equipment lists for primary and lower secondary schools, the primary



- 11 -
teacher training colleges and the Intermediate Teacher Training Institute
(para 4.04). Workshops and home economics rooms would be provided as well as
adequately equipped laboratories so that science teaching also may become
practical and experimental. At the same time greater emphasis would be placed
on pedagogical training and, for this purpose, a teaching demonstration room
would be provided in each college. No difficulty is envisaged in obtaining a
sufficient number of qualified trainers for the colleges. Teachers for the
handcraft subjects would be recruited from those who have been trained abroad
or who have graduated from the Intermediate Teacher Training Institute.
Intermediate Teacher Training Institute (MOE)
4.04      Apart from an Institute of Physical Education, only one Intermdiate
Institute exists for the training of lower secondary teachers. This institute
currently trains teachers of handcraft and music in facilities shared with
primary teacher trainees and which are now required exclusively for primary
teacher training to help meet expansion needs. The project would provide 120
places for teachers of handcraft and 200 places for teachers of industrial
crafts, related to the introduction of this subject into lower secondary
schools, in a new institute in Damascus. The output of 90 industrial craft
teachers would meet about 45% of anticipated needs (Annex 10). As it would
not be practicable to establish a separate institute for music teachers, the
proposed institute would also include about 120 places for their training.
4.05      Training would extend over two years post-secondary; entry to hand-
craft and industrial craft training would be confined to secondary technical
graduates. Satisfactory curricula have been prepared and the programs would
be developed in more detail by the specialists proposed under technical assis-
tance (para. 4.03). About 26 periods per week out of 36 would be devoted to
practical craft training in a variety of craft fields, 8 periods per week
would be devoted to practice and theory in teaching while the balance would be
mainly concerned with safety practices and applied calculations and measure-
ments. Instructors for the institutes would be trained in the intermediate
technical institutes of the MOE.
Intermediate Technical Institutes (MOE)
4.06      This project item would expand and reinforce the system of in-
structor and technician training by the provision of three new intermediate
institutes. The institutes would contribute a total of (i) 220 instructors
annually, of which about 200 would be required for the technical secondary
schools and vocational training centers and the balance, for which provision
would be varied as required, for other skill training areas; and (ii) 440
engineering technicians. Training would extend over two years post-secondary
and intake would be confined to the graduates of the technical secondary
schools. The proposed locations of the institutes at Deir-ez-Zor, Latakia
and Homs would improve regional distribution of opportunities for post-
secondary education while serving the development needs of these three regions.
4.07      The institutes would provide training in specializations for which
a need has been determined within the presently offered fields of electrical,



- 12 -
electronic, mechanical and automotive technologies, and would also introduce
new specializations required in each region. The additiornal specializations
at Deir-ez-Zor of building construction and surveying reflect the development
of irrigation and housing settlements in that area; that of chemical tech-
nology, air-conditioning and heating, and instrumentation at Homs relate to
its growth as an industrial towrn; that of repair works and of construction and
materials handling at Latakia with the operation of port facilities. Broadly,
the curriculum of these institutes would consist of 6 hours per week of general
subjects, 7 hours of science subjects, 11 hours of technical subjects and 12
hours of practical work. In the second year, the students would undertake
production assignments to introduce them to real manufacturing situations.
For those being trained as instructors, an additional 5 hours per week will
be devoted to pedagogical subjects. The equipment lists for the new special-
izations would be finalized with assistance from five specialists proposed
under technical assistance (15 man/months). Eighteen months of fellowships
for syllabi preparation and 16 two-year fellowships for teacher training for
the new specializations are also proposed. No difficulty is being experienced
or is anticipated in recruiting teachers for the existing specializations.
Arrangements for the establishment of local advisory committees to help ensure
adequate liaison with potential users in an ongoing review of training programs
would be determined by the proposed national coordinating body. Similarly,
the tracer system to be established by that body (para. 3.13) would include
the proposed institutes. The government has provided an assurance that
arrangements to ensure liaison with potential employers and a follow-up system
for tracing graduates' placement and performance would be implemented for the
project Intermediate Technical Institutes as soon as the Institutes become
available for use.
Vocational Training Centers (MOI)
4.08      To help distribute opportunities for vocational training in regions
outside the circles of Damascus and Aleppo, to help meet the urgent need for
skilled and semi-skilled workers, and to initiate integrated training for both
the industrial and construction trades, the project would include construction
and equipping of two vocational training centers at Deir-ez-Zor and Homs.
Enrollment capacity at Homs would be 1,070 and at Deir-ez-Zor would be 630
with an annual output of 1,000 and 600 trained personnel, respectively, in
metal trades, electrical and electronic, automotive and agricultural machinery,
textiles and building trades. The training program would include: (i) 6-9
months accelerated training of semi-skilled workers for adults with an ability
to read and write; and (ii) two-year apprenticeships for those who have at
least a lower secondary school certificate, one year being spent at the center
and another year in practical training in selected establishments. The cur-
riculum broadly consists of 4 hours per week of general subjects, 10 hours
of technology subjects and 24 hours of practical work. Adequate arrangements
exist to reflect user requirements in training programs as the enterprises for
which training is being provided, as well as the centers, are administered by
the MOI.
4.09      The need for instructors would be met initially through short in-
service courses, conducted in the existing vocational training centers, for
those skilled craftsmen recruited as instructors and also from the graduate
instructors of the two existing intermediate institutes of the MOE who receive



- 13 -
a monthly stipend and are bonded to serve the government for a period of five
years. These sources would be adequate to meet instructor needs in the early
years of operation. As the vocational training centers begin to expand to
full enrollment, the required instructors would be provided from the early
output of the project intermediate technical institutes.
Technical Assistance
4.10      The proposed technical assistance program, amounting to about 6 man/
years of expert services and 33 man/years of fellowships (Annex 13), is referred
to in para. 3.13 and in the description of the various project items. The gov-
ernment expects to meet the cost of technical assistance through bilateral or
multilateral financing and no provision is therefore included in the proposed
loan amount.
Cost of the Project
4.11      The estimated total cost and foreign exchange components of the
various parts of the project are summarized below: 1/
LS Millions           US$ Millions        % of Base-
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Line Costs
General Education
5 Primary Teacher
Training Colleges       20.6   11.7    32.3    5.2    3.0        8.2       28.1
1 Intermediate Teacher
Training Institute        2.1    1.5      3.6    0.6    0.3      0.9        3.1
Vocational and Technical
Education:
3 Intermediate Tech-
nical Institutes        14.7   20.6    35.3    3.7    5.2        8.9       30.6
2 Vocational Training
Centers                 16.1   25.1    41.2    4.1    6.4    10.5          36.1
Technical Assistance:       0.4    1.9      2.3    0.1    0.5      0.6        2.1
Baseline Cost              53.9   60.8   114.7   13.7   15.4    29.1        100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                 5.4    5.9    11.3    1.4    1.4        2.8        9.6
Price Increase          18.7   14.1    32.8    4.7    3.7        8.4       28.9
Subtotal                  24.1   20.0    44.1    6.1    5.1    11.2          38.5
Total Project Cost         78.0   80.8   158.8   19.8   20.5    40.3
1/   Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 14.



- 14 -
4.12      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based upon
bid prices for school construction in Syria obtained during the last half of
1976 adjusted for regional cost differences. Furniture costs are also based
on recently received bid prices. Equipment cost estimates are based on
current CIF unit prices and adjusted upward to include local transportation
and installation. Costs per student place, which compare well with those for
similar institutions in recent Bank projects, are satisfactory (Annex 15).
The estimates have been adjusted to reflect the anticipated prices at the
scheduled date of negotiations (April 1977).
4.13      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions equal to 10% of the cost of the estimated costs of civil
works, furniture and equipment, and 5% of the estimated cost of technical
assistance (Annex 16). Price escalation contingencies 1/ have been calculated
for a period beginning April 1977; prices are expected to increase during the
implementation period by about 32% for civil works, 20% for furniture and
equipment and 10.6% for technical assistance. Accordingly, total price
increases are estimated at about 26% of baseline costs plus physical con-
tingencies.
4.14      The estimated foreign exchange component is US$20.5 million equiva-
lent, or about 51% of the total project cost. It was calculated as follows:
(i) civil works 30%; (ii) furniture 25%; 2/ (iii) equipment 90%; and (iv)
technical assistance 85%.
4.15      When fully operational the annual recurrent costs of the project
institutions would be about LS 13.0 million which would be met without diffi-
culty within the overall budget for education and training.
Financial Plan
4.16      The proposed loan of US$20.0 million would finance 100% of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost of construction, furniture and equipment; the
technical assistance component would be financed by the government through
other external assistance. Local expenditures would be financed entirely
by the government. The proposed financial plan is summarized below:
1/   Based on anticipated annual price increases of 15% for 1977, 15% for 1978,
12% for 1979 and 12% for 1983 for the local component of civil works; 9%
annually for 1977 through 1979 and 8% for 1980 for the foreign component
of civil works; 7.5% annually for 1977 through 1979 and 7% for 1980 for
equipment and furniture; and 8% annually for technical assistance. Recent
high escalation costs for civil works (25% in 1975, 18% in 1976) in Syria
has required the application of a different rate of increase for the
foreign and local costs.
2/   It is anticipated that all furniture contracts would be awarded locally.



- 15 -
Government        IBRD            Total
US$            US$             US$
Millions   %   Millions   %   Millions   %
Construction                           10.6    70       5.0    30       15.6    54
Furniture                                1.3    75       0.4    25       1.7     6
Equipment                                1.1    10      9.5    90       10.6    36
Professional Services                   0.6   100       0.0      0      0.6      2
Technical Assistance                    0.6   100       0.0      0      0.6      2
Baseline Cost                          14.2            14.9            29.1   100
Contingencies:
Physical                            1.4             1.4             2.8
Price Increase                      4.7             3.7             8.4
Total Project Cost                     20.3            20.0            40.3
Implementation
4.17      Project items would be under the administration of the MOE except
for the vocational training centers which would be under the MOI. Because of
various institutional constraints a centralized project implementation unit
is not feasible. On the other hand, as each ministry's project items are not
dependent on those of the other ministry, they may be implemented independently
of each other. Therefore to simplify project management and to place respon-
sibility for project implementation directly on each beneficiary, each ministry
would be responsible for the implementation of its own project items. The MOE
has established a satisfactory implementation team consisting of a project
director, an assistant director, an architect, equipment and furniture pro-
curement officers and an accountant, and adequate secretarial services are
available to the team. The team would be assisted by the central and local
offices of the School Building Organization which has a well-established
machinery for school construction. The MOI has also appointed a satisfactory
implementation team consisting of a project director, an architect and an
equipment procurement officer with adequate accounting and secretarial services.
Arrangements for the recruitment of teachers for the project institutions are
satisfactory, while satisfactory arrangements are also being made through the
technical assistance component to finalize the details of all new programs
for the institutions.
Designs
4.18      Satisfactory schematic designs based on agreed briefs have been
prepared for all MOE institutions by the School Building Organization, which



- 16 -
would also be responsible for all subsequent architectural work. The insti-
tutions under the MOI are being designed by Syrian consultants selected
through an international competition, who are also assistinag in finalizing
equipment lists. Schematic designs were reviewed during appraisal and are
satisfactory.
Sites
4.19      The sites for all project institutions have been selected and are
adequate. The government has provided an assurance that sites acceptable
to the Bank would be legally acquired for all project institutions prior to
the scheduled commencement of construction.
Procurement
4.20      Civil works contracts (amounting to US$22.8 million including
contingencies) would be awarded, in accordance with Bank guidelines, on the
basis of international competitive bidding. It is expected that all contracts
would be awarded to Syrian firms. The country has a developed and competitive
construction industry capable of implementing the projects.
4.21      Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment would
be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procurement. Equip-
ment and furniture items (amounting to US$16.2 million including contingencies)
for procurement would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages
to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines, on the basis of international
competitive bidding, except for items which. can only be grouped in small
packages (under US$50,000), items which must be compatible with other equip-
ment procured under ICB and items of such specialized nature that ICB would
not be practical. These items, which would not exceed an aggregate total of
20% of the total cost of each ministry's furniture and equipment items (or
US$3.3 million for the total project), would be procured under normal govern-
ment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include to the extent feasible price quotations from at least three manufac-
turers or suppliers. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids
under ICB, local manufacturers of equipment and furniture would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicable
to competing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower.
4.22      The project would be implemented over a period of four years after
the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 17). Construction as well as pro-
curement and installation of furniture and equipment are expected to be com-
pleted three years after the signing of the loan with one additional year
required for guarantees and liabilities. The technical assistance program
would be completed within three years after loan signing. Final disburse-
ments would be made and all accounts closed within the following six months.



- 17 -
Disbursements (Annex 18)
4.23      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:  (i) 30% of
the total expenditure for civil works; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported furniture and equipment; and (iii) 25% of total expenditures for
locally procured furniture and 80% of total expenditures for locally procured
equipment. These percentages, which correspond to the estimated foreign
exchange content of the project, would be adjusted, if required, to distribute
the disbursements over the implementation period.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The major benefits of the project are expected to be the following:
(i) improving the quality of education through the provision of
badly needed facilities for the training of primary teachers
and lower secondary craft teachers;
(ii)  re-orienting teacher training towards practical activities, as
required to support the introduction of such activities into
the primary and lower secondary schools;
(iii) assisting in alleviating shortages of skilled workers and tech-
nicians, improving and diversifying training programs and intro-
ducing new specializations required for the development of Syrian
industry;
(iv)  reducing regional inequalities by supporting the government's
regional development policies through the distribution of train-
ing opportunities in regions outside the circles of Damascus
and Aleppo, in particular in the poorer north; and
(v) institution building, through support for the establishment of
a national body to plan and coordinate skilled worker and
technician training activities.
5.02      The risks of failure in achieving the overall objectives of the proj-
ect are not excessive. Continuing government commitment and support for the
integrated development of curricula, teacher training and facilities for the
practical activities are essential if the objective of reorientation of primary
and lower secondary curricula is to be achieved. Action being taken under the
project related to curricula and teacher training reforms need to be followed
by measures to ensure the availability of facilities for such practical work in
schools. Commitment and support for such follow-up measures can be assumed,
however, as the proposed reorientation is an important element in the govern-
ment's educational strategy. Finally, the rationalization of the training
sector is largely dependent on the establishment of the proposed National
Council and requires priority government attention.



- 18 -
5.03      Because the project would be the first with which the implementation
teams of the various ministries would be associated and the consequent lack of
familiarity of the implementation teams with Bank procedures, some delays in
project execution may occur. Accordingly, a more than average amount of Bank
supervision would be necessary in the pre-bidding stages.  The timely provision
of technical assistance is also crucial for successful project implementation
and will require strong follow-up. Such potential problems in project imple-
mentation are considered worth the risk, however, in view oi the benefits
which are expected to accrue.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal points:
(i)  procedures for school mapping would be developed and school
mapping conducted on a selected basis for primary and secondary
schools not later than December 31, 1978 (para. 3.12);
(0i)  a suitable coordinating body for vocational training and tech-
nical education, with an executive branch, would be established
by July 1, 1978, and be responsible for (a) formulating a com-
prehensive plan for vocational training and technical education;
(b) coordinating the establishment of training facilities and
all skilled worker and technician programs; (c) forecasting
skill requirements in the context of national development pro-
grams; (d) establishing skill training standards, trade testing
and certification; and (e) establishing a follow-up system to
trace placement and performance of the graduates of all skill
training institutions (para. 3.13); and
(iii)  arrangements to ensure liaison with potential emp:Loyers and
a follow-up system for _racing graduates' placement and per-
formance would be-implemented for the project Intermediate
Technical Institutes as soon as the Institutes become avail-
able for use.
6.02      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million
to the Syrian Arab Republic, for a term of 20 years including a grace period
of 3-1/2 years.



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX 1
C MAY 11,1977 
2GNP/ I % GNP   21 TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC i                  I        I          SPRI. IAV.PRI.   I                2        InSEt   I        I
I       tCAPITA,  DEVOTED.PUBLIC    EOUCATION    eLITER- 3 PRI. ICOMPLE- *STU- 3SCM.TEACHiPROGRESS-i SEC. :STU- i 
2       AT   I TO EDU.8  EXP. I RECURRENT    IACY              sENROLLiTION         2DENTSSSALARY  IN31ON RATE SENRULLIDENTS2HIGMERs
PO    :MARKET: (PUBLIC DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATEDI   RATE :RNATIC1 ;RATESFORIPERCH:RELATION  FPROM PRI.:RATIO :PER   BENRULLI
PU.aRICES:   OP.                           C O a T.  :C% OF   a  ET   IPRI.SM.TEACH   TO GNP/ .10 SEC. 2 NET   ITEACH; RATIO,
YR IMILLS. I        IUS)   ONY     EU. aPRI. SE         H I,jADULTS)l Cl       ICYCLC(M)nE.          CAPITA   I   X            C%)   IER        C) 2
I   2        2          2          2                           a        a           i       aI  I                              I                I 
( C) 22   (2) 2  (3)    2  C)                 CS()      2(6)          M (7      (8)    2 (9) 2  Cl)    21 (it)           2(12)   3(13)  :(14)   2
ADVANCED
AUSENIA     ~~~73    7.9L 4,010E      4.0      9,9       470  250   200    99         98        93         26        2.0         99        51       19       8.00
CANADA           72   22.SE 6, 190E        7.7    t9.4       30    38    19       98       89        98        24         2.0        99         82       17       9.00
GER4MANY F.REP.7Z  n2.OE 6,260E            4.2    14.2       ,..   74** 26        99       91        99        33         ...        99         90       22      17.OOCY
JAPAN            71 t09.7E 0,n7OE    40.3    20.7            39    38    12       99       990       99C       25 C       2. 0       99C        990      20C    28.00D
NETHERLANDS    72   13.5E 5,250E           8.5    19,1G    3 2    45    19        99       95        95        29         3.0        9 7        13       2 0     11.00
NEW. ZEALAND    73    3.OE 4,.OIOE         5.2    ...        39    20    29       99       99        99        26         ...        99         67       19      20.00
NUORWAY           72    4.OE 9,860E        7 .0    15.2      58    23    13       99       99        98        20         1.9        99         76       14      11.00
SWEDEN            73    8.2E 7,200E        8.9    16.0       36    10    13      99       99         99        17         ...        90        85        10      30 .0 0
U.K.             72  5S.9E 3,S90E          6 .    12.7       26    39    22       98      99         ...       26         2.0        ...       63        17      11.00
U.S.A.           72 211.9E 6,670E          6.0    15.4       ..    73** 27        99      99         99        20 U       2.,0       ...       93        19U    29.0 0
LUROP
GR-LEECE                9. OE 2, 190E      2.2    11.2       S4Y  29Y   143    820         95Y       ...       32Y      ..O A                  58Y       03Y    '1.00
IRELANI)         72    3.IE 2, 320E        S.1    13,90    03Y  413   14Y    98           97         99A       3.i      ...          950        75       19       7.OOA
PURIUGAL          72    9. oE 1.b3OE .          ...                                      98 ...  ...... ...                                     65XY     ..       7 60Y
RUJMANIA          75  21.3   1,1300        0 .0     6.4      36    19     1        8       101       ...       21.Y                  98         49       22,    10.0 0
S PA IN           71  35,IL  2.04QE        2.'IB   15.20    09Y  22Y   15Y    94A          910A       .        35A      ...          ...        29A      3 0      6.000
ALG';ERIA        75   115.7      778       7.5      ..        10I  32G   I8G    3 0        76        62E       42E        6.oG       49E        17       25       0.00
OENIN             73    3. OL    120E      5. 3    32.0      0 7    23    10      it       32X8      708       S0B      25.00        438         78      398      0.001C3
BOITSWANA         70    U.?      290       5.0    20.0       38    20    1s       25S      708       75        35        5,0s'       20         130      18       0.30Y
A IJ R J N D      70    3.6       90       2.5    19.90    079   019   12R    10           200       30?       38       10t.0U       10          20      is       1.0
CAMCRIJUN         73    7.1E    2501       5.9    20.0       38Y  29Y   173                 0. 1Y ... 74.ID                                      9       ?3CY    0 90tY
C.A.R.            70    1.7E    210E       II,ON  200        5 6    19  .  ..     .,       64CY      29        6iCY    ..             S5CY    27BY    0.07Y
CHAD)             75    0. OE    1O0E      3. 0    to0.0     78    22      -      I S      29X03    30         AsBY    15.0            8         2083   30        0.0183
CUNGUCS)         70    1. 3      0710      6.0    19.3       00    32    2 1      5u?    1330        63        613        6.0        08         33X      22       3.400
LGY I'            70   36.04     280       5. 3     .,I,     29    36    20       40       708      04        040        . ..        00         390      28      1 1. 00
EIMIPIUPA         73  27.2E    1 00E       3.21 " 2. 0       02    20    1 8       7       17C       02        50u        3.0        03          2       30       0 .2))
GABUN             73    0.5   1,9b0E       5.,0    20.6      25 r    0    1 1            184X8Y    25S1        46C       5.0         I8A        20C      21C      1.OGtY
(.HANA            71 I  9.6L    430E       'I. I   24.0DR   380   150   230        .       S6xcy    62         30cy    . ..          104        1 1      1613    0.740Y
IVUlY COAST    72    6.4L    ObOE          (..5    29 .7     278Y 33BY 13Y         90     52         570       06       . . .        . ..I      10      25        1.200)
KENYA             73   12.9E    200E       b.4N   27.0t      63    II    II       0 0      73        . .       0 0        8.0         104       1 2      23       1.0300
LESUrHU           75    1.2     1400E    12.OP   23. 0       09    18    20       00       85        s0        92         7.ON       81        1I0       26       1 . 00
LIBERIA           75    1 . S    '/110     2 .0    13.2      27    1s    20       73       s8        ...       I1i        2.0        . ..       12       26       1 .1I00AY
MADAGASCAR       70    8.b    I280         3. 2    22.2     5)1   20    25       00       680        30        63       15,.0 U      08          98     26        1 .0 0
MALAWI           70   04.9       1 30      3.21   20 .9.....                    .1 25     560        60        50U        7.0U       00          4X     2         0U.,- bCy
MALI              TO    S,6E      80E      0.6N   32.3       368   528   128    Ioc        I8A       220       000      10.00        37A         40A     170      0.16AY
MAU1RITANIA      70    I ,3E    2901       0.5    21t.0                                    15.0.. -..      s  ...  22    . . .       . . .       3      20
MAURI IIUS       72    0.9E    580E        3, 7    It1.700   7                   00 H     86         99        31        .            .        31       30        1.O7CY
MURUCCO          70   16, 3      30 0      S.OC   1 6.5      00    07      9     267      508        21        37         ..31                 130      2 1       2.0 0
NIGERIA     ~~~71  13,0 OI    27F     3.2N               000   200   20A    ...       390CY    . ..        S4CY      . ..        . . .      0       2OCY    0.37t0
RWANDA           73    4.0 o      80BE     3.2C   28.uD.-I...... 23                        32        . ..      51         . ..       . ..        2       1 3      0.23CY
SENEGAL           71    0.9E    330E       0.ON   42.S09   380   020    SA    1 0         380        . ..      0 6        ...        ..,I       I I     25        1.71C't
SIERRA0 LEONE   73    2.91    2901         3.04   25,0       31    36    30       15?     300        05        32        4.01        60        130      2 1       0.538Y
SOMALIA          75    3. 2      2 00      3. 70   lo,80    090   16Q   190    50?         300       86        31)      10u. 0       0           3       1 5      0.1 0
SUDAN            72I  15.21    230E1     0,5'   13,2         0 3    29    28      25r     38         75       '45         4. 0       2>        1 1      20        1.23Y
SWAZILAND         75    0.i      470       3.8      ...      38    31    19       s0      73         71        38         3.8        S 1       20        22       1 .0 0
TANZANIA         74   14,0 2L 60E          S. IN   17.0      36    ...   1 2     63       000        . ..      49        . ..         7          2      21C       0 .30
TUNISIA          73    S.51    6501        6. 3    2 3,4     37    0 3    18     55       72         81        01        6. 0        3 1       10        -        3. 00
UGANDA            70   1 1.21    240E      S.2N   17.6CR    000   22Q  250    250          A8XCY    ...        36         . ..       140         00CR   2 1       0.588Y
UPPER VOLTA    72    i.81         90E1     0.0    V ,        6i   Ito      6       5       1 0       ...       05i      18.0         20          2       23       0.0103
*   ZAI RE            73   24 ,I E    190E      5.2CN  c,          4CO  l7    29C    1 5       63         38        44A       6.0         43          8      20        0.968Y
ZAMS IA           740   0.8      520       5.3   I10i.2      34    18a   16       03      88         50        47         9.0        20         1 3      22       1.0 0
CENIRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COSTFA RICA      7 1    1.91    84001      5.2    22. 7      57    25    1 2      ./'      86CY      65        29         3. 0       se         22CY    25       12. 11 CY
DUMINICAN RLP.72    4.oE    6S0E           3. 0    1 3,9     42    20    22       St       80        11        5          3. 00      6 3        1 3,5    24       7.0 0
LL SALVADOR    75    3.81    410E          3.6    23.8       61      5    22      60B      65C       .,        3C          .          0         01        IY      038
GUAIEMALA   ~~73    5, 31    OBOE      1 .9    16,.0     55    23    10    047        64         26        30        3. 0        69         a       25       0.09y
MAZII             1   2    0.1 .S  2701    0.0      6.60    62    1     8         20B      22        25 ?      05        5;. 0       So          3       23       1.00?
HONDURAS         72    -.8E    3'I0E       3. 9    26,5D    60    1 3    18       52       81x       1 8       37         6.0        1s         148     1II       3. 00
JAMAICA           72    2.0E1, ,190E       6.SY   19, 7      33Y  220    73    86         006XY      ...       52         .           .         32XY    19        0.793
MEXICO           70  57.9E1 1,1190E        2. 6     9,35     54    2/i   1 2      7 6      7 1       30        0 6        3,3                   1 9      2 3      6 32CY
NICARAGUA   ~~~70    2.01    670E      2.5    10.2       61    13    13      57       65        21         37        2,0         93        17       20       7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 71I   1.IE l,7 kO0E          5.2I    I  1. 9   953    27    1 2     91)      951       8 7       35i        4. 0       1 5        0 9      25       2.56AY
SUUIH AMERICA
OL_I'VI_A         7 6   5.A       -.F      5.0    t7.5F  .....             . ..38          1-"       29D       20        'SF          ..,.       48      IOD       . .,
BRAZIL            75 107. i  t,olu         5.0    12.4       42E  201    371   640         o".~    . .   .      7CY       ..    .      ..       260      ISCY    6.008
CHILE             72   10.0E    830E       4.,.Y   10.60Y  36Y  14Y   S6V    ...    110X03    ...              ))78Y      4,           .         8803        ..   .  
CULUMBIA          70   23.1E    0001       L.'    2 ).9      35    II)   20)    73         67        20         06        0.907                          10         .0
ECUADOR     ~~~72    6,9E    4801      3,      07,7C    050Y 020Y 10OQY  69            72        ...       38         I,.         ..a1               10 4     0.9783
GUYANA            74    0,8      500       5.BN   14 ,7TO    47    35    1 4      830      92X        19        35        6.'         1         628       20       1.00
PANAGUAY          70    2.09     9t 510      .8    I1,I       55    13    22      8 1      02        26         3)        I,          6         1 7       12       5.00
PERU        ~~~~~71   10.91    74001   4 0.5    214,     50 L    22    2 5    72       80        RC                   3.0        'to        30       230Y   12.0 0
VENEZUELA         73   11,6E 1.960E        '4.0    19.9      300   280   3.0Q   77A        81         ...       .'        2.4          .        33        . ..    12.63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)                                     ANNEX I  PAGE 2
MAY 11,1977
I       I                  a         I                I        I       I          I       I           I           I       I       IIa
I       a GNP/ : % GNP   IS TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC a              I       I          aPRI. sAV.PRI.                  a       aSEC   I 
,       ICAPITAE  DEVOTEOSPUSLIC a EDUCATION    iLITER- i PRI,  ICOMPLE- i3TU- s3Cm.TEACMjPROGRES3-3  SEC. JSTU- a                        a
a   Al  a To EOU.i  EXP, a RECURRENT    1ACY               sENROLLiTION       IDENT$13ALARY INaION RATE IENROLLIDENTSIHI6HERa
Z MARKET,  (PUBLICIDEVUTEDaEXP ALLOCATED,   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORaPER   IRELATION SFROM PRI.IRATIO $PER  IENROLLI
IPOP. aPR3ICESa EXP'.    a  TO    I        TO,      i(% OF  r NET  sPRI.SCH.,TEACht TO GNP/ iTO SEC.   s NET   sTEACM- RATIO)
YR99ILLS.t CUSS)l ONLY)  i  EDu. aPRI. SEC, MI.IADULTS)i  MX   ICYCLE(k)tER    I CAPITA   *  (2)                    i (2)  SER    I CX) I
a       I       a          I         I               I         I       I'         I             8                 I       I               $
(I) is  (2) a  (3)    i  (4)  a           (5)      a (6)    a (7)  a  (8)    a (9) *  (10)    I (1I)            1(12)  3(13) 3(14) 1
ASIA AND OLEANIA
AFGHNISTAN    7418.3         Ito       ..              39P  2tSP  16P    20        26k      24        41        s *0       78         Bk     21        .0
BANGLADESH      73  76.4E    IOOE        .2    20.2         . ....    23             s6k      ...       4         **..       ...      23k      28
CNINA(TAILWAN) 73  25.7E    8l0E  3.2    t4.u    28   4      22     82       98C       94       40       24.0        8          I       6      2.O
INOIA           71 595,6E    1'JOE      2.6VY .,..        .. .. .. 29               79k       ...       43A                 *.        28k      20AY    4.OOAY
INDUNESIA       74 136F        220G     3.9F  21.uF   69   21    10         608      79k      43        30        i.OG      52        19k      14      2.00
IRAN            73 233.11i 1,25oE       3.1    1 2.6     508  188  128   50          77       74A       32        5.08       804      24       32      4.32CY
IRAQ~           72  1U.8E 1,110E        6.7    16.3R ........   26                   61CY       *       2         *. ... 2226XCY  26                   6.28CY
J0ORDAN         73   2.bk    'J30E      7.0     8.8      52    Is   21    59         91k      76        18        5.0        8        50k      22       4.00
KUREA           75  35.3       530      2.9    16,uR   65    33       2    920    104k        98        52        3.5        77       55k      38       7.8
LEBANUN         72    3.IE 1.o70E       3,5    2R.u      39   40    10    68         86       65        19        2.0        63       26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA        74  11.7       680      6.4   28*0       44   31    11    60C        96F      90        32        4,OD       83F       44F     27F      3.00F
OMAN            72    U.7E 1,6b0E        t.7N    3.8     96          -      20       ?4k      99        31        7.0        ,*        0.4X     9       ,.
PAKISTAN        75  b9.0       130E     1.6    16.2      45   25    18      21      117k      50        39        2.0        ...       17k     18       6.00
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.6       410      5.6    26,2      38    16   24      32       57?      73P       31       22.0        90        12k?    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  41.4E    330E        2.5    14.9    .73   15    12       87      1(?4k      ...      14       15.0        ...       46X     ...    22.00
SINGAPORE       72   2.2E 2,240E        3.2    16.2      44    31    15     iS5A     96Y      72A       33        ...        99A       57)'    24       8.25)'
SYRIA           75   1.4       660      3.6   6.9        39   25    26    53         89       7o)       35        2.0        92       45       21      12.00
THAILAND        73  40.7E    310E    'I.ONF 20.7F    6S         9    15    a2        87k      931       32        3.0 U      91C      21X      24       2.00
TUJRKEY         72  37.9D   600D        ...   13.UDR .......                 .      osxcy    ...        34DY       ...       ...      22XY   27DY    5.318Y
YEMEN           73   b.AE    180E       0.5      4,0    45P  21P  23P    10          15k       18       36        5,.0o      75         2k     19       0.OSBY
YEMEN P.D.R.  72    l.bE    220E        2.3A  12.6       79   12      -     10       70k      31        29       lo. 0       99        12k     20       0.08AY
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING---------------------------------- COUN-TR-----------ES-:---
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                    75      73      70   69   69       72       89       55i       78          53       55       79       75        74
-- - -         - - - -
RANGE:                               (0.5-   (3,8-   (25- Co.   (0-    (5-       (20-      (17-      (19-       (1.8-   (U-        (.4-    (9-      (.01-
t2.OP )  32.3)  96 )52)  '40)   98)           184k)    99 )       65 )       25.13)   99)       75.0)  43)       23.0)
UUARTILES:UPPER                       5,2   22.1       55    31   22      Ts      87        75        46          8       80        29       26      6.0
MEDIAN:                  14 .8    1R*0     45   23    15      50      71        50o       38         Is        63       16       23      2.00
LOWvER 13.0    13,9                        38   (6    12    2       Is2        So        35          3       25         9       20        .9
MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                             N--GDP....
?  GUESTIONABLE                      C=1972                       P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNSa2  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D=1973                             0=CENYRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           UR IROD MISSIONS
**CUMBINED WITH PRIMARY            E=1974                       R2MINISTI(Y OF EDUCAtION (MOE): ONLY                  3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
F31975i                     SSMUE AN)) STATE GUVr. ONLY                                    AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                       T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X:INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
............................................Y:UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARAtIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCA11ON SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HUWEVER,DN THE BASZS OF THE PRESENT ((ArA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH4
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES, THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY OIN THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN tHE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(I)EOUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALI
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATInN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL RLGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL)I
O3)LITERACY RATESO(COL.6) ARC OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCUUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPRUkIMATIUNS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LiTERATE' HAS BEEN FULLONED CONSISTENTLY,
(4)PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION By
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES,
(5)'ENRULLMENT RATIfOS'(CULS 7, 12 AND 1'4) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN TME PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT rO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
.FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. UVERAGED STUDENTS  Homon   INCLUSION IS INDICATED  OY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Review of Existing Programs
I. The Formal School System
Organization and Structure
1.        The Ministries of Education (MOE) and of Higher Education (MOHE)
are primarily responsible for education in Syria. UNRWA and the private sec-
tor play a limited role, while a number of other ministries (in particular
Agriculture, Culture, Health, Industry, Labor, Petroleum, Public Works,
Social Affairs and Tourism) are active in training related to their special
technical fields.
2.        There is a considerable degree of administrative decentralization.
In the case of the MOE, policy guidelines and major programs are defined by
the central authorities and resources are allocated to each of the regions;
the regional authorities decide on the location of schools and the details
of the programs within the region, assign teachers, and distribute teaching
aids and materials as required. Implementation of the school building pro-
gram is the responsibility of the Institute of School Buildings, a para-
government agency with an autonomous budget. As for the MOHE, the Minister
presides over the Council of Higher Education which includes the rectors of
the universities and is responsible for establishing general policy guide-
lines, ensuring coordination among the three universities and the Higher
Institute of Technology and determining each year the number of students to
be admitted to the different faculties at each university.
3.        The education system follows the four-tiered pattern usual in Arab
countries and comprises six years of primary education (grades 1-6), three
years preparatory (lower secondary) education (grades 7-9), three years sec-
ondary general and secondary technical education (grades 10-12), four year
and two year primary teacher training (grades 10-13 and 13-14 respectively),
two year technician training (grades 13-14) and higher education degree
courses (grades 13-16 plus). It is the government's policy to phase out all
post-lower secondary primary teacher training. Currently, such programs are
being offered in three mohafazats only where the number of entrants for the
two-year post-secondary program is not yet adequate.
4.   Transition within this structure was regulated at the completion of each
of the above cycles. However, as Syria is moving toward a 9-year course of
basic education, the competitive examination for progression from primary to
preparatory has been eliminated. Promotion examinations continue to be held
at the end of each grade of the primary and secondary cycles and, in addition,
a mildly selective examination controls entry from preparatory into secondary
education, which is divided into general secondary (further subdivided after



ANNEX 2
Page 2
a common first year into a humanities brancN a science branch, both leading
to the baccalaureate) and technical secondary with specializations in indus-
trial, commercial or agricultural studies). No entrance examination is ad-
ministered for admission into university--in principle, entry is open to all
baccalaureate holders.
5.        Education in public schools is free at all levels.  Private educa-
tion, which has declined steadily over the past decade, enrolled 34,545 pri-
mary, 11,208 preparatory and 16,119 secondary students, representing 3%, 4%
and 13% respectively, of total enrollments in these stages in 1974/75 (down
from 8%, 36% and 33% respectively in 1964/65), Enrollments in UNRWA schools
represent 2% and 3% of total enrollments at the primary and preparatory
levels, respectively; the UNRWA schools have no secondary enrollments.
Preschool and Primary
6.        Preschool education is provided on a limited scale in classes
attached to primary schools, in classes zonducted by the Federated Union of
Women or in kindergartens conducted by private groups. Enrollments in such
classes in 1974/75 were 32,948 (14,460 girls). Proposals for the further
development of public preschool education are at a very early stage of
consideration.
7.   Primary education is not yet universally compulsory but in almost half
of the country's districts, including sote of the poorer regions, specific
measures are being taken preparatory to introducing compulsory education
in those districts. Committees and organizers have been appointed and a
campaign, including TV programs, mounted to persuade parents to enroll all
primary school-age children.
8.        Primary school enrollments (public and private) have been growing
steadily from 665,545 in 1964/65 to 1,211,570 in 1974/75, an average 6.2%
annual growth over the past ten years. The enrollment of girls expanded by
60% between 1969/70 and 1974/75 compared to 39% for boys. Girls now account
for 39% of total enrollments, an improvement over the 35% proportion of
1969/70. The percentage participation of girls varies, however, from as low
as 8% in rural Deir-ez-Zor to 49% in Damascus city. The gross enrollment
ratio for 1974/75 was 89.4 (104.3% for boys and 73.3% for girls).
9.        While school building activity has expanded considerably over the
past few years, there is still a shortage of buildings; as a result most
schools operate double shift. Furthermore, more than 40% of the buildings
were not built as schools and almost 30% of school buildings are rented.
In particular, the rural school buildings in the poorer regions are of the
most primitive type frequently provided through local initiative in the form
of one or two rooms of clay construction. More than 50% of schools are one-
and two-teacher, with a concentration of such schools in the four poorest
regions, which have 80% of the 1-teacher schools. While the overall pupil:
teacher ratio of 35.4:1 is acceptable, a wide variation exists in class
sizes, ranging from as low as 15 students in one-teacher schools to 60-70
students to a class in many city schools. A more rational and systematic



ANNEX 2
Page 3
approach to school location planning should bring significant benefits in
this context.
10.       On the whole, the primary school curriculum is well-balanced and
will be further improved by the addition of practical activities in the fifth
and sixth grades, when facilities are available for the purpose. The content
of syllabi are being revised in collaboration with the Jordanian educational
authorities and textbooks reflecting the more modernized syllabi are being
prepared.  Very satisfactory arrangements exist for the printing and dis-
tribution of textbooks.
11.       Primary education efficiency ratios compare well those of other
developing countries but still show room for improvement. Repetition rates
average about 10% for both boys and girls and dropout rates range from 1.2%
to 7.1% for boys and 1.8% to 9.2% for girls. As Syria moves towards com-
pulsory primary education, further improvements to lessen dropout will be
necessary, with special measures necessary to achieve improvement in the
more remote rural areas.
12.       The government target is to have all 6-year-old boys in primary
education by 1980 and all 6-year-old girls by 1990 (i.e. 97% excluding
handicapped children) as against a current intake of 90% for boys and 68%
for girls.  It is intended that ultimately grades 1-9 would be the basic
education cycle but specific provision for this purpose is not included in
the draft five-year plan. However, the competitive examination for progres-
sion from primary to preparatory has been eliminated and current progression
rates are high at 94.8% and 88.8% for boys and girls, respectively.
Preparatory Education (Lower Secondary)
13.       Enrollments in preparatory education have increased rapidly from
206,196 in 1969/70 to 314,272 in 1974/75, an annual average increase of 8.8%.
In this period the proportion of girls has increased from 26% to 31%. The
proportion varies, however, from 3% in rural Deir-ez-Zor to 44% in Damascus
city. The gross enrollment ratio was 55% (71.4% for boys and 36.7% for
girls).
14.       Repeater rates vary from about 11% to 16% for grades 7 and 8 and
increase to a high 24% for girls and 29% for boys in grade 9; dropout rates
are 9% and 5% for boys and 6% and 3% for girls in grades 7 and 8. About 56%
of the grade 9 class graduate and of these about 81% proceed to general sec-
ondary education, 15.6% proceed to secondary technical education and the
rest proceed to vocational training or into the labor market. The government
objective is to reduce the percentage of graduates entering secondary educa-
tion to 50% and to increase the percentage entering secondary technical to
25%.
15.       The preparatory schools curriculum is generally well-balanced in
terms of subject content and includes adequate provision for science and
social studies. However, the provision for the teaching of handcrafts is
limited and in all subjects the teaching is almost exclusively theoretical.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The introduction of experimental and practical activities is constrained by
current inadequacies in school facilities. The vast majority of school
buildings are not functionally suitable for modern educational purposes;
laboratories, workshops, libraries and equipment are almost non-existent.
Even in recent construction, the practical spaces are limited and unsuit-
able for modern teaching purposes as well as being inadequately equipped.
Secondary General Education
16.       The enrollments at this level have increased from 75,085 in 1969/70
to 120,009 in 1974/75. In this period enrollments of girls increased from
17,330 to 34,817, increasing the proportion of girls from 23% to 29%. The
gross enrollment ratio for the grade 10-12 students, including those in sec-
ondary technical schools, was 32% in 1974/75 (40% boys and 15% girls). Re-
peater rates in general secondary schools in 1974/75 were 4.5%, 3.5% and 26%
for boys and 5.3%, 1.6% and 25% for girls in grades 10, 1l and 12, respec-
tively. Dropout rates in grades 10 and 11 were 6% and 5% for boys and 9%
and 6% for girls respectively. The number of students who obtained the sec-
ondary school baccalaureate in 1975 amounted to about 64% of grade 12 enroll-
ments. Of those who sat the literature section of the baccalaureate examina-
tion in 1976, 12,254 (43.9%) were successful, while of the 38,680 who sat for
the science section 23,902 (61.8%) were successful. The low pass rate in the
literature section is accounted for in part by the poor performance of the
more than 4,000 non-school candidates.
17.       The curriculum is generally satisfactory but is exclusively oriented
towards university entrance. This is understandable in view of the "open
door" policy to higher education for holders of the baccalaureate. However,
teaching is overly theoretical in character even in the science stream which
has about 73% of the students.
Secondary Technical Education
18.       Formal technical education commences at the secondary level and,
with the exception of secondary agricultural education which comes under the
Ministry of Agriculture, is administered by the Directorate of Technical
Education of the MOE.
19.       There are at present _5 industrial secondary schools and 16 com-
mercial secondary schools; three intermediate institutes also have industrial
secondary school sections. The minimum qualification for admission is the
successful passing of the preparatory school examination (grade 9). The cur-
riculum content of the industrial secondary school comprises broadly 18 hours
per week of theoretical instruction and 20 hours of practicals including shop-
work. The specializations offered in most schools are restricted to the en-
gineering trades, although some additional specializations are offered depend-
ing on the needs of the mohafazat; but none includes the building/construction
trades. Nor does any provision currently exist to train the instructors re-
quired to introduce these new specializations. The MOE announces each year
the number of admissions to each specialization. The passing rates are good,
and while dropout in grade 10 is about 6%, there are virtually no dropouts



ANNEX 2
Page 5
after that grade. Importance is given to practical examinations, and stu-
dents failing in the practical examinations have to repeat the grade. The
aim of the technical secondary school is to prepare students for higher
technical studies or for employment as skilled workers in a trade speciali-
zation. A government decree requires industry to absorb the baccalaureates
of the industrial secondary schools as workers. However, the sole opportu-
nities for higher education open to graduates of the technical secondary
schools are the intermediate technical institutes and their access to the
intermediate institutes of the MOE is very limited. Only the top meritori-
ous graduates can gain admission to the universities, and this has had an
adverse effect on the quality of preparatory school graduates entering the
technical secondary schools.
20.       Between 1969/70 and 1974/75 enrollments in commercial secondary
schools increased from 1,266 to 5,534 (2,183 girls) and in industrial sec-
ondary schools increased from 6,800 to 11,329 (boys only). Precise plans
for the further expansion of the provision for commercial education have
not yet been formulated but it is envisaged that 25-30% of those entering
technical secondary schools will be in commercial education. An immediate
expansion in the provision for industrial education is proposed by the
government, with the intention of increasing annual admissions from the cur-
rent 7,000 to 12,000 by enlarging existing schools, increasing admissions
to schools that have adequate facilities for the purpose and constructing
eight new schools.  University graduates are recruited as teachers for both
commercial schools and the industrial schools, while the shop instructors
for the industrial schools are trained in the intermediate technical insti-
tutes of the MOE. These sources from within Syria have been supplemented
for the industrial schools by a planned program of teacher training abroad
and, as a result, the needs for teachers and instructors have been met satis-
factorily. Additional instructor requirements, estimated at an average of
about 200 annually over the next four years, to meet the planned expansion
in industrial education will be met through the provision of the required
places in three proposed new intermediate institutes.
21.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform operated 14 sec-
ondary agricultural schools offering a 3-year post-preparatory course with
a total enrollment of 2,200 in 1974/75. Two of the schools offered special-
ized courses, one veterinary and one farm machinery. The quality of educa-
tion in the agricultural schools is low due to inadequate facilities, lack
of equipment and materials, and unqualified teachers. Only 25% of the
teachers are full-time -- there is no institution in Syria providing peda-
gogical training for agricultural school teachers -- and many subjects are
taught theoretically by part-time teachers. Subjects in the curriculum are
fragmented and the time devoted to some subjects is inadequate -- provision
for extension training consists of one period per week in the final yeaar.
22.       The government is aware of these problems and has decided to im-
prove the quality of the agricultural schools by providing better facilities,
including boarding for all students, up-grading teachers and improving cur-
ricula. The government also proposes to increase the output from the post-
secondary Intermediate Agricultural Institutes and to reduce the number of



ANNEX 2
Page 6
agricultural secondary schools. In 1975/76, the number of schools was reduced
to ten, which will be reduced to seven by 1977/78. The total enrollment in
these schools will be about 1,4C0 to 1,600 to produce about 400 to 500 lower
agricultural technicians per year. Due to an increasing need for this level
personnel in veterinary services, the present capacity (260) of the veterinary
school will be doubled when the construction of expanded facilities is com-
pleted. Similarly enrollments at the Farm Machinery School will be increased
in order to train more farm machinery technicians needed for mechanized
agriculture.
Teachers and Teacher Training
23.       Primary teachers in public schools totalled 32,979 (13,504 women)
in 1974/75, of which about 72% were permanent. About 94% of the permanent
teachers are qualified. The temporary teachers are normally replacements
for teachers doing military service. The temporary teachers are not quali-
fied but almost all hold a secondary school baccalaureate. They generally
fall into two categories -- those who are studying for arts degrees and do
not propose to remain in teaching and those who will have their contracts
renewed as other replacement vacancies arise.
24.       The number of primary teacher trainees in 1974/75 was 5,913, of
which 53% (3,144) were women as compared to 41% women in 1969/70. It is gov-
ernment policy to increase still further the proportion of women in primary
teaching and in 1975/76, 68% of the intake into primary teacher training were
women. The government has over the years increased the number of teacher
trainees to meet the expansion in primary school enrollments and, overall a
shortage of teachers has not been a major constraint to such expansion. How-
ever, except in a few locations training colleges have not been purpose-built
and facilities generally are extremely poor (Annex 12). The quality of train-
ing and, as a consequence, standards of teaching have suffered thereby and
are generally low.
25.       Until the current school year primary teacher training was of one
year duration post-secondary (58% of trainees in 1975/76) and four year's
post-preparatory. The one-year course has been extended to two years from
the present year and the numbers in the four-year course are being progres-
sively reduced. Concomitantly, the government is commencing a major program
of construction of primary teacher training colleges to upgrade the quality
of facilities to provide facilities for trainiing regionally, and to provide
a total of about 8,500 to 9,000 places by 1980, with an output of about 4,000
places annually. The availability of suitably equipped workshops and labora-
tories will facilitate the application of experimental science programs and a
proposed new training program in handcrafts related to the teaching of hand-
crafts in the primary schools.
26.       An effective program of inservice training for primary teachers was
commenced in 1972 under the direction of the Unesco/Unicef field center in
Amman. Training consists of a one-week orientation course, a two-hour weekly
seminar in the afternoon during the school year and a final two-week summer
course. The ultimate aim is to have all teac:hers attend such a course once



ANNEX 2
Page 7
every five years. An area organizer is responsible for training arrangements
in each mohafazat. Field tutors, generally teacher training college professors
or teachers in the secondary schools, are recruited to conduct the courses.
They receive an initial one week's training and are paid a stipend of LS 125
per month. To date no difficulty has been experienced in obtaining teachers
except in Damascus city. Courses have commenced in all mohafazats except rural
Damascus and 2,000 teachers were in attendance during 1975/76. It is anti-
cipated that the enrollments will increase considerably in the future as the
program gains momentum.
27.       The number of teachers (including administrative staff) in lower and
upper secondary schools in 1974/75 was 20,479 of which about 6,500 were women.
The teaching force is composed of 7,319 "cadred" secondary teachers, of which
77% had university degrees and 17% had pedagogical training, 3,301 primary
teachers and the balance unclassified temporary teachers, for whom evidence on
qualifications or level of competence is not available but who are unlikely to
substitute satisfactorily for qualified secondary teachers. In view of un-
certainties in calculating full-time equivalence of part-time teaching, the
overall teacher/pupil ratio cannot be determined. Substantial overtime hours
are contributed by the regular teaching staff for whom the working week is a
low 20 periods per week for those teaching solely in lower secondary schools
and 19 periods per week for those teaching at the upper secondary level. It
would be appropriate for the government to re-examine the conditions of employ-
ment of secondary teachers and the general structure of the teaching force to
see if improvements could be effected both in working hours and quality of
teaching.
28.       Pedagogical training for secondary teachers is provided at the
School of Education of Damascus University. Current facilities are very
limited but plans are being finalized for a major program of construction of
purpose-built facilities. The output, expanded from its current 400 to 500
annually, should in time prove adequate to meet secondary teacher training
deficiencies but sufficient applications are not as yet being received from
maths and science graduates. At present there are shortages in these areas,
particularly in preparatory schools outside the main cities. Attempts to re-
solve the problem by training preparatory school teachers in areas of short-
age through a two-year program at an Intermediate Teacher Training Institute
have not attracted sufficient trainees for such subjects as maths but the
arrangement is proving satisfactory for teachers of music, art and physical
education. Further measures aimed at channelling maths and science under-
graduates towards teaching are being considered at the highest government
level.
Higher Education
29.       There are four degree institutes in Syria under the MOHE--three
universities at Damascus, Aleppo and Latakia with enrollments of 61,156 in
1974/75 and a Higher Institute of Petroleum and Chemical Engineering at Homs
which enrolled 221 students in 1974/75. The construction of buildings for
the university at Latakia, which is housed in temporary premises, has only
recently begun.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
30.       A weakness in the planning of university education, has been an
over-concern with undergraduate education and a lack of attention to the
potential benefits of post-graduate studies in specializations of economic
benefit to the country. The opening of the universities, in 1971, to all
baccalaureates of general secondary schools has placed an increasing burden
upon the universities, as the number of baccalaureates has been rising con-
tinually with the major expansion in primary and secondary school enroll-
ments. Because of demographic factors and the expected growth of secondary
education, this pressure--which does not relate to the prcfessional manpower
requirements in the country--is likely to continue in the medium term.
31.       The increasing shortage of suitable teaching facilities, instruc-
tional equipment and teachers has forced the authorities to take certain
restrictive measures:
(i) only secondary school graduates of the previous academic
year are eligible for admission, and applicants are sorted
out according to their grades within given capacity limits
established for each specialization by the Council of Higher
Education; and
(ii)  only in exceptional cases will graduates of the technical
secondary schools be allowed to apply for admission into
the universities. At the same time, universities are en-
couraged to establish intermediate institutes to draw off
some of the baccalaureates.
32.       On the whole, these measures have proven to be inadequate.  Entry
restrictions seem to have worked mainly against the poorer students who can-
not afford taking the baccalaureate exam several times to obtain higher
scores (which often requires heavy expenses for private tutoring). On the
other hand, the hasty establishment of new intermediate institutes has often
been based on inadequate planning which has resulted in lack of adequate
facilities and suitably qualified staff--to the detriment of quality educa-
tion. Some success has been achieved by the universities in increasing the
proportion of enrollments in the science-oriented faculties from 28% in 1968
to 45% in 1975. However, the efforts being made to limit access to these
faculties because of the limited available facilities, while allowing almost
unlimited access to arts faculties, which do not require attendance at lec-
tures, may reverse this trend.
33.       At the technician level, institutional training is carried out in
intermediate institutes under many ministries. The course of studies/
training is usually of two-years duratiDn, with admission restricted to
baccalaureates of either general secondary schools or technical secondary
schools, depending on which ministry's institutes are in question.
34.       Under the MOE, there are presently three intermediate institutes
offering specializations in mechanical, electrical, electronic and automo-
tive technologies. Broadly, the curriculum consists of 6 hours per week
of general subjects, 8 hours of science subjects, 13 hours of technology



ANNEX 2
Page 9
subjects and 12 hours of practical work. In 1975/76, 1,500 students were
enrolled in these institutes. The dropout rate was only 2% for each year of
studies. Textbooks in Arabic are available to students in most subjects of
study. The physical facilities in terms of building space is good and there
is adequate equipment, supplied by the Federal Republic of Germany, for the
existing specializations.
35.       These intermediate institutes of the MOE are the only source of
trained technical instructors for the technical secondary schools and the
vocational training centers, as the institutes offer in addition to the
regular courses of study additional pedagogical subjects for these instructor
trainees. The staff-student ratios are satisfactory, and the institutes have
a strong core of full-time teaching staff, many of whom have received advance
training abroad. The government plans are to accommodate 30-40% of the
baccalaureates of technical secondary schools for training as technicians and
instructors; these plans call for increasing the student enrollments from
about 2,500 in 1976/77 to 4,000 by 1980, by establishing three new institutes
at Deir-ez-Zor, Homs and Latakia.
36.       The MOHE administers three intermediate institutes in the engi-
neering and industrial fields, but the admissions are open only to bac-
calaureates of general secondary schools. Two of the institutes use the
university's laboratory and shop facilities while their own buildings are
being constructed. The institutes have very few full-time staff and rely on
part-time teachers from the universities. The students in these institutes
often view their studies as an interim stage for entry to the universities.
37.       The technical ministries (Industries, Public Works, Petroleum
and Natural Resources) also operate intermediate institutes (engineering
and industrial) in a variety of technology specializations. Except for the
Intermediate Textile Institute at Damascus, all these intermediate institutes
suffer from lack of teaching laboratories, libraries and teaching aids, as
they use either rented premises or premises of vocational training centers.
Furthermore, they have to rely on available facilities in vocational training
centers or neighboring factories for the conduct of practical work and demons-
tration exercises. With the exception of the Intermediate Textile Institute,
most of the teaching staff in the intermediate institutes are part-time drawn
from the industrial/construction sector. The absence of a core of full-time
teaching staff hinders continuity of the teaching programs; moreover, there is
no advanced training program for teaching staff of these institutes. The
trainees in the intermediate institutes of the technical ministries receive
monthly stipends and are bonded to serve the ministries' enterprises for a
stipulated number of years.
38.       Three intermediate Agricultural Institutes, under the supervision
of the MOHE, offer two-year post-baccalaureate courses to train agricultural
technicians. The Institutes were opened in the existing faculties of agri-
culture and share, temporarily, the present facilities. The curriculum of



ANNEX 2
Page 10
the Institutes provides for one year of training in general agriculture and
another year in specialized trairing. The total enrollment in 1974/75 was 450
in three Institutes. An intermediate Institute for Land Reclamation was
established at Al-Rakka in 1975 to train assistant civil and agricultural
engineers in a two-year course. The Institute is under the administration of
GADEB and has a capacity of 200.
II. The Non-Formal Education and Training Program
Vocational Training
39.       Non-formal training of skilled and semi-skilled workers is under-
taken by a number of technical ministries. These include the Ministries of
Industries, Public Works, Social Affairs and Labor, Culture and National
Guidance, and the Euphrates Dam.
40.       The Ministry of Industries has a Directorate of Vocational Training
which organizes training programs and adtninisters the vocational training
centers. The courses in the factory schools are of 2 to 3 years duration and
the conditions for admission are that the trainees be employees of the facto-
ries and have preparatory school certificates as in industrial apprenticeship.
Some 900 trainees were enrolled in 1975/76 in these schools in the specializa-
tions associated with the production activity of the industrial complex, for
example, tanning, matches and pencils, glass porcelain, cement, asbestos
sheeting, fertilizers, electric cables, motors and glass lamps. For the more
general industrial and engineering trades, the training is given in the
vocational training centers in specializations such as metal trades, electrical
and electronics, textiles, automotive, drafting and carpentry. The vocational
training centers offer: (a) accelerated training of 6 to 9 months of semi-
skilled workers, with admission open to adults having the ability to read and
write and having passed an admission test; and (b) a two-year industrial
apprenticeship of which approximately one year is spent at the vocational
center and the other in a factory, with admission open to employees of state
enterprises who possess preparatory school certificates. In 1975/76 some
1,300 trainees were receiving training in the vocational training centers,
where the facilities are satisfactory. The number of full-time teaching
staff was not as high as is desirable. All trainees receive a stipend and
on completion have to work in the state enterprises; this practice is true
for most of the non-formal training programs of the technical ministries. The
plans are to establish two new vocational training centers at Deir-ez-Zor and
Homs.
41.       The Ministry of Public Works operates some six centers for accel-
erated training (3 to 9 months) in the building and construction trades. The
centers have no premises of their own, but use existing secondary technical
schools or industrial vocational training center facilities. The instructors
are part-time and drawn from within the secondary schools or from the Ministry



ANNEX 2
Page 11
of Public Works. The program suffers from the lack of a defined curriculum
and no efforts have been made to introduce the desirable modular concept
of training for these trades.
42.       The Institutes of Popular Culture, under the Ministry of Culture
and National Guidance, established in towns, offer a variety of courses of
study in morning, afternoon and night sessions to those who have at least com-
pleted their primary schooling. The institutes are housed in rented premises.
The institutes are successful in certain programs, but not in introducing
engineering trade subjects, such as electricity, as they do not have the
necessary shop and laboratory facilities. The craft centers under the
Directorate of Countryside Relief, in the Ministry of Social Affairs and
Labor, are concerned solely with carpet weaving and rug making, and carry
out both the training and production functions with success.
Agricultural Training
43.       In 1975, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform trans-
ferred farmer training programs to the General Union of Peasants (GUP). GUP
has 13 District Training Centers--one in each mohafazat and one Central
Training Center in Damascus. Each District Center offers six courses per
year on cooperative management for about 200 trainees. The most successful
trainees from these courses follow a course for cooperative leaders in the
Central Training Center. GUP also provides short courses for farmers by
coordination with the extension service. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform operates two in-service training centers for its own staff.
Literacy Training
44.       In 1972 a national six-year literacy campaign was initiated under
the direction of a "Supreme Council for the Elimination of Illiteracy".
The Ministry of Culture and National Guidance has overall responsibility for
implementation and is charged with preparing the "books, publications and
circulars needed for the literacy and post-literacy campaigns and making all
arrangements necessary". A regional literacy committee has been set up in
each mohafazat, presided over by the regional governor. The aim of the
Ministry of Culture is to have an adequate number of its own centers available
in each mohafazat but currently courses are being provided using a variety of
institutions including schools (to a limited extent), rooms in factories, etc.
Some effort has been made to introduce functional literacy training by the
Ministry of Culture and, in a more effective way, by the General Union of
Syrian Women. A Unesco functional literacy program has also been developed
within the project for the development of the Ghab area. Overall, however, the
effectiveness of the literacy campaign has been disappointing and the numbers
enrolled in literacy classes have declined from a peak of about 18,000 in 1972
to about 11,000 in 1975. Following a recent decision of Arab countries to
combat illiteracy on a broad front, a full review of existing efforts is being
undertaken with a view to a government decision as to future courses of action
to improve the effectiveness of the campaign.



SYRIA
ORGANIZATION OF TH-E MlINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MINI STER ~  ~       ~        ~       I           DPUYMIISE
1.  Diirectorate of     - 
Planning, Follow-utp    :1.  Directorate of Seconday           1-  Dietrt  of
EDUCA INFA--Seci-tary                                               & Stattistics                  Education                              'ySical and Social
NiNG CONVOITTEE   - Archives                  2. ~Directorate of2.  Direct:orate of Techinical
- Organization                   Curricuila & Books              Education                    !I2.DrcraeOYLti
of niLtainos                                                                                  3e ofonYontr
- liiforatioi).3.  Di' ecLorate of3    ietrt   fPiay                                     4.  Di)rectorat-e of I4til-itar\.
Office                         Rese-arch]                     Educationi
COMN41TTEE       - Techiii"l                ~~4.  Directorate of            j4.  Directorate of Schiool               Lducationi
COi~~lMITTEE  ~~Office                                  Tiraininig  _ of                health                          5.  Directorate Of Schjolj
5.  bir(ectorate ofj    Directorate of Textbooks                        Drama
___________    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- Cultural Relations                         Publication                     6.  Drchool t olub
INSTIrUTE FOR_________________________         6.  Office of Documen-         6.  Directorate of Teachter               '1~lCib
1OOL aUILDINGS  ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      I7.  Office of Foreign 4idI   v. irectoraLe of Ed(uc:ationia
8.  Persoinnel                      Technology
9.  Examinations            I  8.  Accounts
10. Directorate of
Teachier Training
11. Adsiinistrative
Affairs
12. Legal.Affairs
3.Library 
I't)



SYRIA
STRUCTURE OF T14E EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1975-76
PRIMARY                                                     SECOND LEVEL                                                  HIGHER EDUCATION
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.O Tsmn D
0   TECHNOEOGY 4 Years) EN
UNIVERSITIES (4-6 Years)
PRcalreat  alIMARYg alRo fPARATORYGENERALSECONDARY_                                                                           in   Sciences
,              _aalauret  (afingfrhAeicrluralScience
excemteonal _Case)eering
GRADERY                               PREPARATORY G2NE 3                     A }   *    -                                  S eel thincK
higher~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Euain Fineton                                              Arts
AG         2 I              4        5 I           I                                      10                  11       12
I       1        I      |       ii      11           12      13      14               15                  16        11                      13
Note:  The AGE-GRADE relationship applies if students enter school at the regular admission age (6)                                                                                        Si
and mope normally through the system.                                                                                                                       Warld 8ank-15462nX
Indust6al~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'n



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1974-75
GRADES           MALE                                                                                                                             FEMALE                      TOTAL
HIGHER                                                                        ENROLLMENT
17
16
-4-
+5             80%                                                                  5,2 l           147120%~                                                                  72,512
14
111
13.  I
+t                                                                                 SECONDARY, UPPER CYCLE
12                                                                   37,086                            12,351                                                                 49,437
1-76%                                                             3
11            7,809                                                                                                                                  24%                      43,273
10                                                                    34,900                               15,083                                                             49,983
t  PREPARATORY                                                                      142,693
9         t                                     7Z,2       17i0 1 _374                                                                                                       101,591
+            69%                                      6                                                           29,648                            31%                      91,977
7                                          80.919                                                                       39,785                                              120,704
+  l   PRIMARY             I     1                                              314.272
6                                 96,352                                                                                      149,375                                        145,727
5            61%           108,476                                                                                                    63,428         39%                    171,904
4                 123,6483                                                                                                                                                   201,t15
3          134,77_                                                                                                                                    91,09                  25,6
a                                                                                                              I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   225,864
2            132f7                                                                                                                -971111                                    22,S
l       140fi51                                                                                                                                              1 00,989        241,640
150  140  130  120  110  100   90   80   70   60   50   40   30   20   10    0    10   20   30   40   50   60    70   80   90   100                                1,211,570
(in Thousands)
World Bank-17086
if!



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR l'ORCE BY SECTOR - 1971-1975
1971                 1972                 1973                 1974                1975
Number      % of       Number   % of       Number   % of        Number   % of        Number   % of
'000       Total       '0oo     Total      '000      Total      '000      Total      '000     Total
Agriculture                   892        58.6        908      55.6        850     52.8         864     53.0        8S,'    51.1
Manufacturing                 172        11.3        181      11.1        161     10.0         184     11.3        206      11.8
Mining & Quarrying              2         0.1          3       0.2         14       0.9         14      0.8         11       0.6
Building & Construction        71         4.7        100       6.1         88       5.5        104      6.4        122       7.0
Electricity, Gas &
Water Supply                    7         0.5         19       1.2          7       0.4          7      0.4         10       0.6
Commerce                      141         9.3        137       8.4        153       9.5        160      9.8        186      10.6
Transport, Storage &
Communications                 46         3.0         63       3.9         65       4.0         65      4.0         76       4.3
Services                      192        12.6        223      13.6        273      16.9        233     14.3        245      14.0
Total Employed          1,523       100.0      1,634    100.0       1,611    100.0       1,631    100.0       1,751    100.0
Total Unemployed           123                     81                   76                  87                   88
Total Labor Force       1,646                  1,715                1,687                1,718                1,839
Unemployed as % of
Labor Force                   7.5                    4.7                  4.5                  5.1                  4.8
Growth Rate of
Employment-%                                         7.3               -  1.4                  1.2                  7.6
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - Skilled Manpower Requirements 1976 - 1985
Manpower   Manpower    Stock Surviving        Manpower          Manpower            Annual
Occupational group                      Stock       Stock        in 19851          Requirements      Requirements      Requirements
1970       1975                               1985             1976-85
(census)
Professional, technical,
administrative and related
workers:                              70,566       91,185           54,600           174,240           119,640            11,960
Engineers                            2,495        4,245            2,540             7,920             5,380               540
Engineering Technicians              1,690        4,190            2,510            27,720            25,210             2,520
Teachers                            39,555       57,000          34,000            110,000            76,000             7,60C
Clerical and related workers:          59,659       93,981           56,270           176,000           119,730            11,970
Clerical - General                  46,233       72,835          43,610            136,400            92,790             9,280
Clerical - Commercial               13,426       21,146          12,660             39,600            26,940             2,690
Sales and service workers:            130,152      171,084          102,330           319,440           217,110            21,710
Craftsmen:                             99,084      121,423           72,710           227,040           154,330            15,430
Supervisors                          4,177        5,100            3,050             9,680             6,630               660
Plumbers, Welders,
Blacksmiths, etc                   14,860       18,213           10,910            34,320            23,410             2,340
Electrical Fitters,
Electronics Workers,etc             9,072       11,171            6,690            21,120            14,430             1,440
Bricklayers,
Carpenters, etc                    47,971       58,769           35,190           110,000            74,810             7,480
Machinery Fitters,
Assemblers, etc                    20,875       25,620           15,340            47,520             32,180             3,220
Other                                2,129        2,550            1.530              4,400             2,870               290
Total                                 359,461      477,673          285,910            896,720           610,810            61,070
fl attrition rate set at 5%, reflecting significant migration trends. Teacher nueds are derived in Annex 10.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Foame-I EdUcatiOn Development
1969/70 - 1984/85
19o69A7e        SoaRer of                    X of Age              Bumber of   Teether:                       X of Age             NBmber of   T-ehCr
Level and Type               ARe Group         Gr-de           D-roIlmetn    arone     F7,   l                     n       ee T h  El t  P            Techera  Guil Ratio          Enrollent    ro        7  eale   Techers  Pupil Rarie
Primary:                               6-11         Ne.  Intake        164,635      74%        308%                         207,819    80X        417.                                       325,000    91%         45%
1-6             845,130      75%        35%       23,431          2,211,570    89%         39%       34,226        1:35            1,827,615   100%         44%       52,218        1:35
Leper SeOndary:                       12-14         New Imtake          76,157      41%        27%                          102,944    48X         34X                                       192,000    65%         43X
7*9             206,169      43%        267,                        314,272    55X         31%                                       596,039    77%         42%
l                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                         /2
Upper Seondary:                       15-17                                                              14,130                                              20,479        1:21                                               37,944        1:20
General                                         NBe Intake           18.397      14%        29%                           39,347    25%        337                                         54.000    2744
10-12             75,085                 23X                         120,009                29%                                        162,818               43%
23%                                              - 32X                                    /11                        427.
Technical                                          10-12             10,445 J               n a        1,420              21,211                16%        2,304        1:9                86,530J               n.e.    -  6,654        1:13
Higher                                18-22
U.ni-er-irte                                       13+                36,761    n.e         18%        n.*.61,156                                          3,100        1:20              150,000                0 a.       6,870        1:16
18%                 ~~~~~Li
Inter--ediete Institutes                           13-14              n  .       n.e        n -        n.e.                7,695    12%      J               481        1:16               30.000    187 n87                2,140        1:14
Primary Teather Training                            9-13                2,087     n         41%           274              5,913                53%          506        1:12                 9,L0                  .n0a.      600        1:15
and
13-14
.~~~~~~ ... .  i.l
'en.a" means not availahle
L   Not reliable  II vipe  of lack of dare on Full-tine equir leece of psrt-rime trCtiBg
L2  Aso _en centi.n..lCe of current week oade of 20 periods per week iB  lower  neordary schools and 19 Periods per veek in epper secondary schools.
Li 58% of trainees in post-seto-deny pr-gras.
source:  M10 M tattiCis and nisiot  estimates based on MOE and MO1E platoinB t-rget.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
The Establishment of a National Council for Vocational
Training and Technical Education
1.        A number of technical ministries have entered the field of voca-
tional and technical training in addition to t:he Ministry of Education and
the Ministry of Higher Education. The commendable initiatives, however, are
in danger of fragmenting the desired overall effort and, as they proliferate,
of leading to uneconomical use of scarce resources. In addition, the lack of
coordination has led to an education/training system which is inadequately
articulated and where the qualifications of the graduates of one training
agency are not recognized by another ageacy for further training or for job
appointments. One reason for this latter situation is the absence of an
adequate coordination mechanism that systematically brings education and
training authorities together with potential employers in the formulation
of training programs.
2.        The following groups of activities, which are being administered
separately, need to be recognized as interlocking ones and their coordination
arranged for in advance:
(i) compilation of a national classification of occupations/
trades, manpower surveys, and a forecast of skill
requirements in the context of national development
programs;
(ii) formulating a comprehensive plan for vocational training
and technical education; translating this into programs
and projects, and arranging for their execution, administra-
tion and supervision; and
(iii) establishing national technical education and vocational
training standards, trade testing and certification, and
coordinating all technician and skill training programs.
3.        It is understood that the question of establishing a National Council
for Vocational Training and Technical Education has been under consideration
by the government for some time. Such a Council, or other suitable coordinat-
ing body, should have as its objective the elimination of duplications and
fragmentation of the programs of vocational training and technical education.
It should have the authority to coordinate, integrate, plan, advise and
supervise all formal and non-formal manpower training programs. It would
ensure that formulated plans for quantitative expansion and qualitative
improvement of the overall training system are efficiently implemented.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The membership of the Council should include representatives of the
employers and the main ministries/agencies concerned with training activities.
It should be supported by an Office of Directorate General which would be
delegated responsibility for overseeing that the policies and directives of
the Council are executed fully and promptly; it would initiate action on
studies related to the Council's functions and provide technical assistance
to ministerial agencies executing the approved programs. Its authority should
extend over public and private training programs. The National Council should
be assisted by specialist advisory committees which would establish, review
and confirm the need for selected programs of studies and assist in the
preparation and validation of curricula, testing and practical training. The
Council should be further assisted at the regional level through advisory
committees representative of employers and training authorities to ensure
liaison at that level in relating training programs to user needs.
5.        Pending the establishment of the National Council, inter-ministerial
committees should be established to coordinate training activities. It is
understood that an early decision is expected to establish an inter-ministerial
committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Higher Education, to
coordinate investment in intermediate institutes and all training activities
at the post-secondary technician level. A committee should also be estab-
lished to coordinate all activities for the training of skilled and semi-
skilled workers.
6.        The Directorate General should also be responsible for operating
an evaluation and tracer system for all skill training institutions in
cooperation with the appropriate ministries. The evaluation system should
assess (i) the effectiveness of instructor training in the Intermediate
Technical Institutes, in terms of quantity and quality, for the secondary
technical schools and vocational training center; (ii) the adequacy of sources
of supply of instructors for the training programs, generally for semi-skilled
workers, of other ministries; (iii) the efficiency of the training system in
responding to the needs of the labor market; and (iv) the quality of skill
training. As an aspect of on-going evaluation, the Directorate should estab-
lish a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and performance.
7.        In preparation for the future establishment of the National Council,
the followinc expert services should be provided to work with counterparts
who would suosequently form the nucleus of the proposed Directorate General:
Organization and Administration Specialist             1 man/year
Trai:ning Standards and Certification Specialist       1-1/2 man/year
Modular Training Programs Specialist                   1 man/year
Manpower Specialist                                    1 man/year



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Public Expenditures on Education 1972-76
(Millions of Syrian Pounds)
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976 /2
Ministry of Education
Total Expenditure                     265           288           397           554           746
Of which:   Recurrent               n.a.          n.a.          371           463           528
Capital                n.a.          n.a.            26            91           218
Ministry of Higher Education
Total Expenditure                      65            80           101           161           429
Grand Total                           330           368           498            715        1,175
As % of Budget                      10.4          10.8          7.7            6. .1        10.8
As % of GDP                          4.1           4.3          3.6            3.5 /!        5,4
"n.a." means not available
/1 Ministries of Education and Higher Education. Excluding expenditure on higher education by Ministries of
Industry, Petroleum & Agriculture which amounted to about LS 14 million in 1Q75.
/2  Staff estimates based on government preliminary assessment of actual expenditure.
x>



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Ministry of Education Expenditures in 1975 by
Level of Expenditure and Type of Education
General
Level and                                    General 11  Vocational &       MOE        Commission
Type of       Type of                         Primary      Secondary    Technical    Intermediate   on School
Expenditure  Education:    Administration   Education   Education    Education         Institutes    Buildings       Total      %
------------------------------------LS '000--------------------------------------------
Recurrent:
Administration              12,589            3,475        3,700          610           617         1,017       22,008       4.8
Teacher salaries              --            202,005      100,585        7,150         1,351           --       311,091      67.2
Other salaries
and wages                     850           17,800         7,000         950           450            380      27,430       5.9
Overtime                     4,025            2,875        39,000       1,654         1,045            905      49,504      10.7
Family allowances               90            9,300         2,000          300           45            160      11,895       2.6
Rents                           32            3,550         2,550          120         --               35       6,287       1.4
Other recurrent
expenditures               16,201              185         9,817       7,916          --              180      34,299       7.4
Total recurrent             33,787          239,190       164,652      18,700         3,508          2,677      462,514    100.0
%                             7.3             51.7          35.6         4.0            0.8           0.6        100.0
Capital:
Buildings                     --             24,650        21,450      12,979          --              --        59,079     65.0
Equipment                   13,100            2,640         4,046           30         --              --        19,816      21.8
Other capital                6,755            3,491            60        1,350           400           --        12,056      13.2
expenditures                  '_-
Total capital               19,855           30,781        25,556       14,359           400           --        90,951    100.0
%                            21.8             33.9          28.1         15.8            0.4           --        100.0
/1 Including LS 12.2 million for primary teacher training for which a detailed separate breakdown is not available. X
Source: Ministry of Education



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Projection of Public Expenditures on Education 1975-1985
Projected
Recurrent Expenditure      Recurrent
Enrollments ('0OOs)   Recurrent Expenditures         per Student          Expenditures
1975           1985            1975             1975               1985        1985
------LS '000--------   --------LS------------   --LS '000---
Recurrent Expenditure:
Administration          -                -          36,464               -               -             85,971
Primary               1,211.5       1,827.6        239,190              200             205           374,658
Secondary               434.3         758.9        152,486              350             360           273,204
Technical                21.2           86.5        18,700              880             900            77,850
Teacher training          7.0           11.0        12,166            1,740           1,800            19,800
Higher                   68.9          140.0       149,000 1/         2,160           4,300           602,000
Total                 1,742.9       2,824.0        608,006                                          1,433,483
Capital Expenditure:                                   1975                                               1985
Ministry of
Education 1/                                     91,000                                            526,000
Ministry of
Higher Education 1/                              30,000                                            140,000
Total Expenditure                               729,006                                          2,099,483
As % of budget                                            6.9                                              12.5
As % of GDP                                               3.6                                                5.4
Source: Staff Estimates
1/ Including expenditure on intermediate institutes by the Ministries of Education, Industry, Petroleum & Agriculture



ANNEX 10
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Additional Teachers Required to 1985
/1   Additional   Replacement    Annual
Teaching Force   Wastage-   Needs  to /2 of Temporary   Average
1974/75          to 1985       1985         Teachers       to 1985
Primary           34,226           14,000      18,000         8,000          4,000
Secondary
(lower & upper)  20,479            8,000       17,500         5,000          3,000
Technical
(all types)       2,304            1,000        5,000           200            600
Total        57,009           23,000       40,500        13,200          7,600
/1   Estimated at 5%
Notes:      /2   Based on projections in Annex 5
1.            The annual training needs to meet teacher requirements for the
phased introduction of industrial crafts into lower secondary schools can only
be approximately estimated. An output of 200 such teachers annually is
proposed which would accommodate an annual increase of about 1,400 in the number
of craft classes. Depending on progress in introducing craft programs the
output could be significantly increased in the plan period to 1985. Training
is being initiated on the basis of an output of 90 teachers annually.
2.            No increase in teacher requirements resulting from the introduction
of craft programs at the primary level is visualized. The teaching of such
programs will be encompassed in the expanded training of primary teachers and
teacher/pupil ratios are expected to remain unchanged at 1:35. Through rationalization
of and improvements to primary teacher training facilities, student/teacher ratios in
the primary teacher training colleges are expected to increase from 12:1 to 15:1.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ENROLLMENTS, OUTPUTS, PUPIL/TEACHER RATIOS AND USE FACTORS IN
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Course     Total       Estimated   Pupil/                          1/
No.      Level       Length     Annual      Annual       Teacher            Use Factors-
Enroll-    Output       Ratio        Classrooms   Labs/Workshops
ment
Primary Teacher Training          5     Secondary    2 & 4         2,700     1,000         15:1            84-96        56-88
Colleges                                & Higher      years
Intermediate Teacher
Training Institute                1     Higher        2 yrs          440       200         12:1            85           56-85
Intermediate Technical
Institutes                       3     Higher        2 yrs.      1,440        660         12:1            86           33-83
'vocational Training Centers      2     Secondary    6-9 months  1,670       1,560         10:1            53-77        43-78
& ungraded   & 2 yrs.
1/  Based on working week of 32 - 38 periods.



ANNEX L2
SYRIAN ARAB RFPUBLIC
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
BY REGIONS, 1974/75
Region            Number of      Number of       Number of    Enrollments  Enrollment   Total
Institutions/   Classrooms   Laboratories   in 4 year   in BAC + 1   Enroll-   R e m a r k s
Branches                                       course      year course  ment
Damascus               3              25           2                388           539         927       One of the colleges
is in secondary school
building.
Aleppo                 2              32           4                546           694       1,240
Homs                   2              24           one has          816           329       1,145       The orne sponsored by
Special                                              Ford Foundation was built
Block                                                in 1965.  The other is
housed in a secondary
school building.
Hama                   3              18           one has          525           314         839       One sponsored by Ford
Special                                              Foundation built in
Block                                                1965; another is part
of a secondary school.
Latakia                2              18           2                443           323         766       Both are using secondary
school buildings.
Deir-ez-Zor            2              7            -                117           154         271       One is part of an old
secondary school.
Idlib                  2              3            -               -              130         130       Both part of secondary
school.
Al-Hasakeh             1              2            -                -              79          79       Part of secondary school.
Al-Rakka               1              1            -                -              41          41       As above.
Al-Sweida              2              2            -                -              90          90       As above.
Dara'a                 2              3            -               -              132         132       As above.
Tartous                1              4            -                -             253         253       As above.
Total               23              139           -             2,835          3,078       5,913
Source:  Ministry of Education



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Education I
Schedule of Technical Assistance
------ Man-nonths -------              1977              1978              1979              1980              1981
Proposed Assistance                    Specialist                                  Specialists   F      ellshi        1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
National Council for Technical         Organization & administration                    12
Education
Training standards & certification              18                                    ,                                w_
Modular training programs                        12                         j
Manpower                                         12
Craft programs                         Gurriculum                                        3                                   j   _
Equipment                                         3
Intermediate technical                Chemical technology                                3         48 (2)-/+ 32/
institutes
Heating, ventilation, air-
conditioning & ventilation                       3         48 (2)  + 3 ,
Instrumentation control &                                    i   "                                                   w    ' W i
automation                                       3         48 (2)  + 3
Construction technology & surveying                3         96 (4)  + 3 -
Materials handling technique  en d                                                      '   _d
mechanical power                                 3         96 (4)  + 3
Ship navigation & radar                            -         48 (2)  + 3                        l  W      s  
j/ Teacher training
2/  Curriculum and syllabi preparation



ANNEX 14
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Total
----- LS Millions ---  -----US$ Millions----
Construction:
Academic and
Communal Facilities                  30.3     14.2   44.5       7.7    3.6      11.3    38.8
Boarding                                6.4       3.0    9.4      1.6    0.8        2.4     8.3
Site Development                        5.1       2.4    7.5      1.3    0.6       1.9      6.5
Consultant Architects'
Fees                                 2.4      0.0    2.4       0.6    0.0       0.6      2.1
Subtotal                      44.2      19.6   63.8    11.2    5.0       16.2    55.7
Furniture:                                5.1       1.7    6.8      1.3    0.4       1.7      5.8
Equipment:                                4.2      37.6   41.8      1.1    9.5       10.6    36.4
Subtotal                       9.3      39.3   48.6      2.4    9.9      12.3    42.2
Technical Assistance:                     0.4       1.9    2.3      0.1    0.5        0.6     2.1
Baseline cost                 53.9      60.8  114.7    13.7   15.4        29.1   100.0
Contingencies:                           24.1      20.0   44.1      6.1    5.1      11.2
Total Project Cost            78.0      80.8  158.8    19.8   20.5        40.3



ANNEX 15
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Unit Capital Costs- /and Areas per Student
Type of Facilities            Area/student  Buildings  Furniture  Equipment   Total
---- M2 ----  -------------  US $ -------------------
Primary Teacher Training Colleges:
2/
Academic & Communal                  5.9           982       144         256      1,382
Boarding/Boarder                     6.3           686       123                    809
Teacher Training Institute:
Academic & Communal                  8.3         1,386       103         341      1,830
Intermediate Technical Institutes:
Academic & Communal                 12.8         2,464       330      2,900       5,694
Vocational Training Centers:
Academic & Communal (Homs)      3/ 13.2          2,093       239       3,029      5,361
Academic & Communal (Deir-ez-Zor)  15.1          2,894       275       3,678      6,847
1/  Based on unit cost prices without including regional price differences; professional
fees and contingencies not included.
2/  Includes kitchen equipment.
3/  First phase of development.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Contingency Allowances
Consultant        Technical Assistance
Civil Works     Furniture        Equipi,ernt     Architects'Fees    Specialists    Fellowships          Total Project Cost
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local Foreign       Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
Contingencies
(as % of Project Cost):
Physical        1/                          10.0    10.0    10.0   10.0      10.0   10.0        10.0    10.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Price Increase                             35.7    24.0    20.0   20.0       20.0   20.0         8.0      8.0    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6
Total                                49.3    36.4    32.0   32.0       32.0   32.0        18.8    18.8    16.1    16.1    16.1    16.1
Baseline Cost:
LS Millions                               41.8    19.6      5.1    1.7       4.2   37.6         2.4     0.0      0.4     1.2      0.0     0.7      53.9    60.8   114.7
US$ Millions                              10 6      5.0     1.3    0.4       1.1    9.5         0.6     0.0      0.1     0.3      0.0     0.2      13.7    15.4    29.1
% Foreign Exchange                                    32              25               90                   0               85              100               52.9
Contingensies (Amounts):
Physical
LS Millions                          4.2      2.0     0.5    0.2       0.4    3.7         0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       5.4     5.9    11.3
US$ Millions                         1.1      0.5     0.1    0.0       0.1    0.9         0.1      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       1.4      1.4     2.8
Price Increase
LS Millions                         16.4      5.2     1.1    0.3       0.9    8.3         0.2      0.0     0.1      0.2     0.0     0.1      18.7    14.1    32.8
US$ Millions                         4.2      1.4     0.3    0.1       0.2    2.2         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      4.7      3.7     8.4
Subtotal
LS Millions                         20.6      7.2     1.6    0.5       1.3   12.0         0.5      0.0     0.1      0.2     0.0      0.1     24.1    20.0    44.1
US$ Millions                         5.3      1.9     0.4    0.1       0.3    3.1         0.1      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      6.1      5.1    11.2
1 Foreign Exchange                                    26              25               90                   0               85              100                45.5
Total Project Cost:
LS Millions                              62.4    26.8      6.7    2.2       5.5   49.6         2.9     0.0      0.5     1.4      0.0     0.8      78.0    80.8   158.8
us$ Millions                             15.9     6.9      1.7    0.5       1.4   12.6         0.7     0.0      0.1     0.3      0.0     0.2      19.8    20.5    40.3
% Foreign Exchange                                     30             25               90                    0               85              100                50.9
/  Price increase contingencies based upon following annual  increases:   1977            1978       1979         1980
Civil Works - local : foreign                                      15%:9.0%  15%T9.0%  12.0%:9.0%  12.0%:8.0%
Furniture and Equipment                                                 7.5%      7.5%         7.5%         7.0%
Technical Assistance                                                    8.0%      8.0%         8.0%         8.0%
4/ The price increase contingency  is computed as a percentage of the total  of the baseline cost plus the physical contingency.



FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Implementation Schedule
1976           19 77                1978                 1979                 1980            1981
Ministry of Education                                             3 4       1    2 3       4     1    2    3     4iiiZl                                           
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
Intermediate Technical Institutes
(a) Design and Construction
1. Appoint Design Consultants
2. Select and survey sites                                   AW
3. Acquire sites
4. Finalize briefg 
5. Prepare schematic designs
6. Prepare design development drawings                            WO.sr
7 . Finalize bid documents
. invitation and submission of bids
9. Evaluate bids and award contracts
10. Construction                                                                                              nW ~                   W      
11. Maintenance Period                                                                                                                          wwi
(b) Furniture and Equipment
1. Completion of Master List
2. Final lists, specifications and costs
3. Registration of Vendors (if required)                                           O'
4. Finaliie-bid documents
5. Invitation and submission of bids
6. Evaluate bids and award contracts
7. Manufacture and install                                                         4
______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ ____     4        j ~ J    j 2           3                               1 3                    
4inkdicates IBRD approval and/or review                      Loan signing..........J



FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Implementation Schedule
Ministry of Education (con't.)                                        1976             1977                  1978                  1979                   1980             1981
3    4~I    1    2     3    4     1    2(3         4    1     2    3    4            i    213  4     1     2
Teacher Training Institute 
(a) Design and Construction
1. Appoint Design Consultants
2. Select and survey sites
3. Acquire sitea
4. Finalize briefs
5. Prepare schematic designs                                     W
6. Prepare design development drawings
7. Finaliie-bid documents
8. Invitation and submission of bids
9. Evaluate bids and award contracts                                                                  IIMfW
10. Construction                                                                                                 a     w       
11. Maintenance Period                                                                                                         '
(b) Furniture and Equipment
1. Completion of Master List                                                          A
2. Final lists, specifications and costs                                                N0   L 
3. Registration of Vendors (if required)                                                  Ka
4. Finalize bid documents
5. Invitation and submission of bids
6. Evaluate bids and award contracts 
7. Manufacture and install
Aindicates IBRD Review/Appro-val
Loan Signin g-'o -



FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Implementation Schedule
1976            1977                   1978                  1979                  1980             1981
3            1I  2          4    1121314                112131411 23 41                        4      1 2
Ministry of Industries                                                               I                     I                      i
Vocational Training Centers                                                          i
(a) Design and Construction                                                       i                                            i
1. Appoint Design Consultants                              -1                i                                            i
2. Select and survey sites                                 -                 I
3. Acquire sites
4. Finalize briefs                                            *  .                                 I
5. Prepare schematic designs                                                                       I                      I
6. Prepare design development drawings                            FE
7. Finalize bid documents                                                   .,
8. Invitation and submission of bids
9. Evaluate bids and award contract                                                                                       I
10. Constructi OD,nl                                                                                 I -         _       _                 -
11. Maintenance Period                                                                               I                                            I  W      A   -
(b) Furniture and Equipment                                                                              |
1. Completion of Master List                                                                        i
2. Final lists, specifications and costs
3. Registration of Vendors (if required)                                         ,     _j 
4. Finalize bid documents
5. Tnvitation and submission of bids                                                                   r
6. Evaluate bids and award contract
7. Manufacture and install                                                                                                 I
__                                 1 4 _  1   2   3  1 4   1 1                            3 1 4    I 1 2
* indicates IBRD Approval and/or Review                        Loan Signing-



ANNEX 18
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US $ millions)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Disbursements       Disbursements           Balance
Semesteri/                               Amount Percent      Amount Percent         Amount Percent
First Year                                                                           20.00
1                                    0.00    0.0         0.00    0.0            20.00  100.0
2                                    0.00    0.0         0.00    0.0            20.00  100.0
Second Year
1                                    0.00    0.0         0.00    0.0            20.00  100.0
2                                    0.20    1.0         0.20    1.0            19.80   99.0
Third Year
1                                    3.80   19.0         4.00   20.0            16.00   80.0
2                                    4.80   24.0         8.80   44.0            11.20   56.0
Fourth Year
1                                    4.80   24.0        13.60   68.0             6.40   32.0
2                                    4.40   22.0        18.00   90.0             2.00   10.0
Fifth Year
1                                    1.60    8.0        19.60   98.0             0.40    2.0
2                                    0.40    2.0        20.00  100.0             0.00    0.0
1/ Beginning from date of Loan Agreement.






I-  .rt%x~~~~~~5poh.-tj~~~~~:  'S 3         .. ~~~~IBRD 12624R
p,  SE*,             ,.
<4 ~~~~~-.3t**~~~~~'                               -          33<40           V          7.    -3~~~~~~~~~,4      3    gu,                         -
44;  E  '91 ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ '             ~      Atc:~Skj K<                    .<,. 
E, 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4' 
i F. ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ' 
'-7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Al
Z~~~~~Jarn                                       A        A   -~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  f$P~~~~~~~~$AJcATbON   PROJEG~~~~~~~~~~~1  7g.
E 4  E~~~~~~~                                3                  4    s
C I . b b. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A                                                                              e
t  '    DAM S'2.3                  ,,y                                         3'  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Utl  S Arot
kh,,d~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ptf3kr                                                                  4<I~~oc  et



