CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1480 SYR
Loan Agreement
(Education Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1480 SYR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1977, between SYRIAN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or
its successors; and
(b) "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, or its
successors.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from (ime to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdraelct and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Education and the Minister of
Industry of the Borrower or their authorized representatives are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions with respect to Categories (1) through (4) and
Categories (5) through (8), respectively, of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministries referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, architectural
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part B (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified
and experienced specialists.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
ne.ded, but in any event not later than the scheduled commencement
if the respective construction works to be carried out under Part
A of the Project, all such land and rights in respect of land as


﻿-7-
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and right- in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than July 1,
1978, or such other date as the lgarl may agree, establish, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, a national coordinating entity, with an
executive branch, responsible for the planning, supervision
and coordination, at the national level, of vocaticnal training
and technical education.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) make arrangements
to ensure liaison between the intermediate technical institutes
included in Part A (2) (a) of the Project and potential employers
of the graduates of said institutes; (ii) introduce a tracer
system to monitor the placement and performance of graduates of
said institutes; and (iii) ensure that said arrangements and
tracer system shall have been implemented as soon as said insti-
tutes shall be available for use.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause MOE and MOI each to
assign experienced and qualified staff for the purpose of super-
vising Project implementation.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realiza-
tion or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any-constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admin-
istrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 9 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the facilities
included in Part A of the Project to be operated in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educational
policies and practices, and with due regard to economy, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for their effective utilization, operation
and maintenance; and (ii) cause said institutions to be staffed
with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment for the facilities included in Part A of the Project
to be adequately maintained and shall promptly as needed cause
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes, with the assistance
of qualified specialists, (i) to develop procedures for school
mapping, and to carry out such school mapping on a selected
basis, for primary and secondary schools, and (ii) to carry out
a preinvestment study for the establishment of an educational
materials production center, and to complete all the foregoing
not later than December 31, 1978.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date December 13, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of State for Planning Affairs of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Planning Commission
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
Cable address:
State Planning Commission
Damascus
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
A.   MOE
(1) Civil works                 4,500,000          30%
(2) Furniture:                    400,000
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expeditures
(b) procured                                 25%
locally
(3) Equipment:                  5,700,000
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured                                 80%
locally
(4) Unallocated                   850,000
B.   MOI
(5) Civil works                 1,900,000          30%
(6) Furniture:                    100,000


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) imported                                 100% of foLicgn
expenditures
(b) procured                                 25%
locally
(7) Equipment:                  5,950,000
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured                                 80%
locally
(8) Unallocated                   600,000
TOTAL      20,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
(1) General education (MOE)
The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) 5 primary teacher training colleges; and
(b) an intermediate teacher training institute.
(2) Vocational and technical education
The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) 3 intermediate technical institutes (MOE); and
(b) 2 vocational training complexes (MOI).
Part B:
(1) (a) The preparation of currIcula and related equipment
lists for the new specializations at the inter-
mediate technical institutes included in Part A (2)
(a) of the Project (MOE);
(b) the establishment of suitable mechanisms for
coordinating vocational training and technical
education (coordinating entity referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement);
(c) the development of craft programs and related
equipment lists for the institutions included under
Part A (1) of the Project (MOE);


﻿- 19 -
(2) Provision of about 33 man-year of fellowships and
overseas training for selected and qualified teaching
and administrative staff for the purposes of syllabi
preparation and teacher training for the new speciali-
zations at the institutes included in Part A (2) (a) of
the Project.
The locations and the detailed features of the facilities to
be provided under Part A above are set forth in the Exhibit
hereto, as such Exhibit may b. amended by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Locations and detailed features of the facilities to be
provided under Part A of the Project.
Approximate
Gross Area Total
List of Institutions     in m2    Places    Locations
5 Primary Teacher       29,789     2,700    Latakia, Tartous,
Training Colleges                          Dara'a, Al Rakka,
Al Hasakeh
1 Intermediate           3,660       440     Damascus
Teacher Training
Institute
3 Intermediate          18,444     1,440    Deir-ez-Zor, Latakia,
Technical                                  Homs
Institutes
2 Vocational            22,990     1,700    Deir-ez-Zor, Homs
Training Complexes


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1981
through   March 1, 1997                        605,000
On September 1, 1997                                640,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as tne premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             8.20%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Items of furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with
appropriate technical standards and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
With respect to contracts for items of equipment and furni-
ture which, in the opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, (i)
cannot be grouped in bulk contracts costing the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, (ii) must be compatible with existing equipment
procured following international competitive bidding, or (iii) are
of such highly specialized nature that international competitive
bidding would not be practicable, the Borrower may award such
contracts in accordance with procurement procedures of the Bor-
rower acceptable to the Bank. Prior to awarding such contracts,


﻿-24-
the Borrower, shall to the extent feasible obtain price quotations
from not less than three manufacturers or suppliers. The aggregate
amount of such contracts shall not exceed $3,300,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
[or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods];
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Syria may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for


﻿- 25 -
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Syria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Syria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Syria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 26 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. In the cases where the Borrower
shall require prequalification, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower


﻿- 27 -
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated: (i) with
respect to contracts for civil works estimated to cost $500,000 or
more the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the


﻿- 28 -
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination; and (ii) in all other
cases the Borrower may defer submission of bid analysis and
justification to the Bank until contracts have been awarded.
3.   With respect to all contracts for furniture and equipment:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall send to
the Bank for its approval:
(i) lists of all items of equipments and furniture
required for the Project, incorporating specifica-
tions and the estimated unit and total price for
each item, indexing and coding the same to identify
education and training institutions and the spaces
for which items are required,.and identifying all
items or categories of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $10,000 and indicating the
grouping proposed to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with sound technical and
procurement practices; and
(ii) the text of the invitations to bid together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, the draft bid documents
and draft form of contracts.


﻿- 29 -
(b) The Borrower shall make such modifications in the
documents referred to in paragraph (a) above as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to said documents
shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(c) Financing out of the proceeds of the Loan will be
limited to those items of furniture and equipment on the lists
and statement sent to the Bank under paragraph (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indexes, codes and
numbers as in such lists.
(d) After bids have been received and evaluated:
(i) in any case where it is proposed to award a con-
tract to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated
bidder, or where a proposed award involves a
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the Borrower shall obtain the
Bank's comments before making an award, and to this
end shall furnish the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a summary and analysis of the bids
received, together with a justification (with due
regard to conformity with specifications and
to price) for the proposed award, and the Bank
shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has


﻿- 30 -
any objection to the intended award and shall state
the reasons for any objection it may have; and
(ii) in all other cases the Borrower may defer sub-
mission of bid analysis and justification to the
Bank until contracts have been awarded.
4.   Promptly after a contract has been signed and before sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall send to the
Bank two certified copies of the contract awarded and such other
information as the Bank may reasonably request.
5.   The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines or
with the provisions of this Schedule, or if its terms and condi-
tions shall, without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked and in such event, no expendi-
tures under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


