Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11078
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2175-PO)
SEPTEMBER 1, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Portuguese Escudo (ESc.)
1 conto (c) = 1,000 Esc.
Appraisal          Esc.    79              u       US$  1.00
Year (1982)        Esc. 1,000 (1 conto)   =        US$ 12,66
Completion         Esc.   157              -       US$  1.00
Year (1989)        Esc. 1,000 (1 conto)   Z        US$  6.37
ABBREVIATIONS
CCAM             Caixa  de  Credito  Agricola  Mutuo   (Agricultural   Credit
Cooperative)
CCRN             ComissAo de Coordenacao da Regiao do Norte (Commission of the
Northern Region)
DGHEA            Direcg&o Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola
(General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DHEA             Divisao de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola (Division of
Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DRATM            Direcg&o Regional de Agricultura de Tras-os-Montes (Regional
Directorate of Agriculture for Tras-os-Montes)
EEC             European Economic Community
FAO              Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FENACAM         Federaqao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo
(Federation of Agricultural Saving Cooperatives)
GAT             Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Office of Technical Support)
ICIM             Instituto do Credito para Investimentos Municipaes  (Credit
Institute for Municipal Investments)
IFADAP          Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura
e Pescas (Agriculture and Fisheries Development Fund)
PAU              Project Administration Unit
PBI              Participating Banking Institution
PCR              Project Completion Report
PDRITM I & II   Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado de Tras-os-Montes
(Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project)
PEU              Project Evaluation Unit
UTAD             Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro
(Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro University)
GOVERNMENT OF PORTUGAL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office df DitreO-CAenwal
Op.atsoM Evakustkmn
September 1, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Portugal
Tras-Os-Montes Rural Development Project
(Loan 2175-po)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Portugal - Trau-Oa-Montes
Rural Development Project (Loan. 2175-PO)", prepared by the Europe
and Central Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachmenth
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2175-PO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.
Evaluation Summary  .1...1.1. .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity .1
2.  Background   .1....  .         .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
3.  Project Objectives and Description  ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
4.  Project Design and Organization ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
5.  Project Implementation   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
6. Main Project Results.                                                                   5
General Agricultural Outcome ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
Rehabilitation of Traditional Irrigation Schemes.                                  6
Development of New Irrigation Schemes.                                             6
On-Farm Investments   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Strengthening of Agricultural Services .8
Agricultural Research.                                                             8
Agricultural Extension  .9...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Studies   ......  .           ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   ..  .    .    10
Non-Agricultural Components   .1.0..  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    lo
Monitoring and Evaluation .11
Technical Assistance and Training .11
Financial and Economic Rate of Return .12
7.  Project Sustainability   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    12
8.  Bank Performance  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
9.  Borrower Performance  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
10. Project Relationship   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    14
11. Consulting Services ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
12. Project Documentation and Data  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .16
13. Critical Risks .16
14. Some limiting Factors ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
15. Main Results       .....................................................   17
16. Lessons Learned .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
1.  Related Bank Loans  .........................    19
2.  Project Timetable .........................                                  20
3.  Credit Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
4.  Project Implementation Ratios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
5.  Project Coats and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
7.  Status of Legal Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
9.  Economic and Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Appendix:  List of the 17 Reports Prepared by UTAD  . . . . . . . . . . . . 43



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2175-PO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Tras-Os-Montes Rural
Development Project in Portugal for which the Loan 2175-PO in the amount of
US$51.0 million equivalent was approved in June 1982. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1989, one year behind schedule. A total of US$44.32 million was
disbursed and US$6.7 million was cancelled at closing.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) for Agriculture Operations
Division of the former Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Project Administration Unit (CCRN). The report is
based,inter alia, on findings of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, World Bank supervision reports and a project completion report
prepared by the CCRN.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTAL
TRAS-08-NONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2175-PO)
EVALUATION SUIDARY
Proiect obiectives and description (311
1.    The objectives of this rural development project were to:   (a) establish
a base for technological progress in agriculture in the region, and improve
agricultural services in order to stimulate such progress; (b) raise farm family
incomes by rehabilitating traditional irrigation schemes and by supporting
changes  in farming systems,  particularly an orientation towards  livestock
production, and an expansion of production of quality wines; (c) raise standards
of living and support development in the poorest region of Portugal by improving
physical and social infrastructure; and (d) encourage decentralization of public
activities through expansion and strengthening of regional agricultural services,
support for municipal infrastructural development programs, and improvement of
planning, design, and maintenance capabilities of regional institutions.
2.    The project had a total of 19 components which fell under the general
headings of Irrigation Development, On-farm Investments, Rural Infrastructures,
Agriculture Service Strengthening, Studies, Research, Technical Assistance and
Fellowships.
Proiect costs (5.31
3.    The estimated project cost at appraisal was Escudos 10.85 billion (US$154.8
million), of which US$51 million, representing the foreign exchange component,
constituted the total Loan amount. The final project expenditures amounted to
Escudos 10.43 billion, but only US$ 67.5 million (due to a considerable
devaluation of the escudo), of which US$44.32 million were disbursed by the Bank;
an undisbursed balance of US$6.68 million was cancelled in September 1990. The
actual economic rate of return is about 18%, compared to the appraisal estimate
of 16% (6.37). The project was completed, as planned, in 7 years.
1/ Para numbex in main text.



- iv -
Implementation Zxierience and Results
4.    The  successful  project  components  were:  (a)  the  rehabilitation  of
traditional irrigation schemes (6.2); (b) the non-agricultural component,
providing water supply and sewage systems, rural roads, village streets and
classrooms for village schools (6.27); (c) the on-farm investment in the Douro
Valley for vineyard establishment (6.10) and in the High Valley zone for
livestock up-grading (6.1); (d) the strengthening of agricultural services
(6.15); (e) the feasibility study for the Chaves irrigation development (6.25);
and (f) the project monitoring by the CCRN.
5.   The components whose objectives were only partially achieved, and the
reasons for limited results, are the following: (a) the on-farm investment in the
Terra Quente region, which benefitted only the large farms (6.12); (b) the
agricultural extension services, becoming operational only towards the end of the
project (6.20); (c) the agricultural research studies whose results have not been
disseminated to the farmers (6.16); and (d) the training component, which mainly
benefitted CCRN staff of whom two managers left to join the private sector
(6.31).
6.   The unsuccessful project components were: (a) the on-farm investment in the
Mountain and Planalto Mirandes zones because of the inadequacy of the proposed
technical packages (6.13-6.14); (b) the evaluation system which did not provide
quantified project results (6.33); (c) the new irrigation development, as
presently designed, which is not economically viable because of high investment
costs (6.7); (d) the Freixo olive grove feasibility study which proposed too high
investments for the pumping system to justify any development (6.26); and (e) the
groundwater investigations which showed that no significant underground water
resources exist for further irrigation development (6.24);
sustainabilitv
7.   Most of the successful project components are likely to maintain an
acceptable level of benefit throughout their economic life, in particular the
rehabilitation of traditional irrigation schemes, on-farm investments aiming to
upgrade vineyard and livestock production, as well as rural infrastructures built
for living conditions' improvement (7.1).
Main Lessons Learned
8.    The major lessons learnt and recommendations for other projects of this
type are as follows: (a) although integrated agricultural development has now
been questioned, the success of the PDRITM project was mainly due to this type
of approach which was considered to be the best given the prevailing regional
conditions; (b) the complexity of integrated rural development projects requires
a close and permanent coordination between the implementing agencies: (c) due to
the very high cost of the pilot irrigation scheme, the design and economic



viability of future schemes should be thoroughly studied; (d) more effort should
be made to monitor applied agricultural research in order to ensure that
practical recommendations and messages are disseminated to farmers through
extension agents; (e) the early implementation of an effective monitoring and
evaluation system is of great support to project activities; and (f) the work
program of the UTAD evaluation unit should have been more clearly defined. There
should have been closer collaboration between CCRN, charged with monitoring the
project, and the UTAD specialists (9.4).






PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-"MNTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2175-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Proiect Identity
- Project Name:          Tras-Os-Montes Rural Development Project
- Loan No.:              2175-PO
- RVP Unit:              EC1
- Country:               Portugal
- Sector:                Agriculture
- Sub-sector:            Area Development
2. Background
2.1   The Tras-Os-Montes Rural Development Project (PDRITM-I) was the third Bank
Group assisted agricultural project in Portugal (Part III, Table 1).  It was
identified as an effort to save foreign exchange through an efficient import
substitution program and to get the agricultural sector in shape for Portugal's
entry to the EEC. In 1982, that sector was producing very little more than the
levels of the sixties and therefore its share of GDP was continuously declining.
The agricultural trade balance was substantially negative with imports being more
than three times as great as exports, and the agricultural trade deficit was
about one third of the total trade deficit.   The stagnation of agricultural
production was partly due to Government policy of price controls, guarantees, and
subsidies. Furthermore, there were marked regional variations within Portugal
in terms of economic development and living standards. In 1970, for example, the
average income per capita for the whole country was twice that of Tras-Os-Montes,
the poorest region, while per capita income in the richest region was four times
that in Tras-Os-Montes.
2.2   The project was identified by a Bank agricultural sector survey mission in
late 1976 and prepared by a national team with important assistance from the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP).   An identification report was
prepared in August 1978 and a preparation report two years later (Part III, Table
2).   Appraisal took place in November 1980.   Due to the need to resolve
outstanding issues, negotiations were delayed until April 1982, one month after
a Post-Appraisal mission. The project was then approved by the Board in June
1982, signed in March 1983 and became effective in July 1983. It closed at the
end of December 1989, one year behind schedule, and was completed in June
19901/.
1  The closing date marks the end of new commitments; the completion date corresponds to the end
of payments.



2.3   The Bank's support of Portugal's efforts to increase efficient agricultural
production and to reduce the difference between regional economic development
matched Government's development strategies. It is still in line with present
strategy as a second phase of PDRITM-I, the Tras-Os-Montes Regional Development
Project (PDRITM-II) started operations in February 1991.  The estimated total
cost of the second phase, also prepared with the assistance of FAO/CP is US$416
million to which the World Bank will contribute financing of US$90 million and
the EEC, US$213 million.
3. Prolect Oblectives and Descriotion
3.1   The objectives of the PDRITM-I were to:   (a) establish a base for
technological progress of agriculture in the region, and to improve agricultural
services to stimulate such progress;   (b) raise incomes of farm families by
rehabilitating traditional irrigation schemes and supporting changes in farming
systems, particularly an orientation towards livestock production, and an
expansion of production of quality wines; (c) raise standards of living and
support development in the poorest region of Portugal by improving physical and
social infrastructure; and (d) encourage decentralization of public activities
through expansion and strengthening of regional agricultural services, support
for municipal infrastructural development programs, and the improvement of
planning, design, and maintenance capabilities of regional institutions.
3.2   At appraisal, the project consisted of the following main components:
Irriaation Development. (a) Rehabilitation of 150 small irrigation schemes in the
Mountain and High Valley zones, covering about 2,720 farms with 7,500 ha
irrigated; and (b) Agricultural credit to farmers to support the development of
intensive dairying in the above irrigated areas, beef cattle and sheep production
on rainfed pastures in the Planalto Mirandes zone and the Terra Quente zone, as
well as vineyard establishment in the Douro zone.
Agricultural Services. (a) Construction of 109 cooperative milking parlours, and
credit to cooperatives for storage facilities, and vehicles for transportation;
and (b) Investments in buildings, houses, vehicles, and equipment for
agricultural research, extension, animal health and breeding, and irrigation
services.
Non-agricultural Comoonents. Construction of about 80 km of new rural roads,
improvement of about 120 km of existing roads, and paving of streets in 61
villages;  (b)    Investments  in water  supply  schemes  in  56  communities,
improvements in small water supply schemes with standpipes in about 160 villages,
and construction of sewage schemes in 65 communities; (c) Rehabilitation of
construction of about 60 classrooms for primary schools; and (d) Construction and
equipping of 2 health centers and 12 health posts, as well as other community
development works.
Technical Assistance. Studies. (a) Studies covering irrigation, groundwater, and
olive development; (b) Irrigation trials, consulting assistance for agricultural



research, livestock husbandry and breeding, the credit system, cooperatives,
management training in concelhos, and monitoring/evaluation; and (c) fellowships
for training.
3.3   As discussed in chapters 5 and 6 and shown in Table 4, almost all of the
components in the project were implemented.
4. Proiect Desian and Orranization
4.1   The lack of applied agricultural and livestock research in the area and the
rather unfavorable ecological conditions (severe climate, poor and shallow soils,
etc.) were the major constraints to agricultural development in Tras-Os-Montes.
In addition, living conditions, well below the national standards, required
considerable improvements.
4.2   The project was well designed, having taken into account various conditions
prevailing in the agro-ecological zones of the project area.   Particularly
relevant were:
(a)   the priority given to the development of irrigation; in the Mountain
and High Valley zones, irrigation facilitated greatly the change
from a two-year rotation to a four-year rotation including two years
of temporary pasture;
(b)   the proposal to plant or replant 2,200 ha of high quality vineyard
in order to maintain in the long run, the quality of port wine;
(c)   the  importance  given to animal  production,  particularly  milk
production, to balance crop and animal production and provide
farmers with regular incomes.  On the other hand, technological
packages proposed for the drier areas were less elaborate with high
risks to be taken by farmers compared with the expected benefits.
Furthermore, the phasing of adoption was optimistic.
4.3   Since project identification, it was recognized that the ambitious project
objectives could only be realized in the long term and that implementation would
require  several  phases.    In  spite of  the  large  requirements  in social
infrastructure (water supply and sewage schemes, rural roads, schools) it was
agreed that the non-agricultural component should not mobilize more than one
third of the total investment.
4.4   The responsibility of project coordination was entrusted to the Project
Administration Unit under the existing Coordination Commission for the Northern
Region (CCRN) based in Porto. The agricultural components of the project were
implemented by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture (DRATM)
in Mirandela. The evaluation, socio-economic studies, and research aspects were
sub-contracted to the University of Tras-Os-Montes and Alto-Douro (UTAD).
Despite some coordination issues, the project organization can be considered to
have been well designed and having fulfilled its roles.



-4-
5. Proiect Implementation
5.1   Project negotiations took place in April 1982   and the project was
presented to the Board in June 1982. But it was only in July 1983 that it became
effective.  Much of the delay in fulfilling the conditions of effectiveness,
mostly related to the credit component, was due to the formation of a new
Government.
5.2   The project closing date was initially fixed at end December 1988, and
further extended by one year.   Notwithstanding the initial delay in declaring
the loan effective, the project was actually implemented in about 7 years,
corresponding more or less to the estimated period at appraisal time. In June
1990, all project components were physically completed, but the last payments for
the milking parlours and the Curalha new irrigation scheme, made beyond June
1990, have not been financed by the Loan.
5.3   Proiect costs.  The estimated project cost at appraisal was about Escudos
10.85 billion (US$154.8 million), of which US$51 million, representing the
foreign exchange component, constituted the loan amount.   The final project
expenditures amounted to Escudos 10.43 billion (US$ 67.5 million), of which
US$44.32 million were disbursed by the Bank; the undisbursed balance of US$6.68
million was cancelled in September 1990. The loan allocation was modified in
August 1985 to transfer US$10 million from the agricultural credit component to
finance 40% of the civil works of the non-agricultural component.   Actual
component costs compared with SAR estimates are shown in Table 5.A.
5.4   The rapid and considerable devaluation of the local currency against the
USS since 1982 (70 Esc. per US$ at appraisal; max 170 Esc. per US$ in 1985;
average 1983-90: 154 Eac/US$) explains why the total project cost in US$ is less
than 50% of the SAR estimates while in Escudos, there is almost no difference.
The changes in the exchange rate explains why with a reduced loan the Bank
financed 65% of the total project costs compared to 32% estimated at SAR (Part
III, Table 5.B).
5.5   Procurement.  About 28 contracts financed under the project, representing
about Escudos 1.3 billion (12% of the total cost), were contracted by CCRN and
DRATM as follows:
(a)   4 contracts  (Esc 140 million)  under  international  competitive
bidding (ICB) for the purchase of equipment for the milking parlours
and vehicles;
(b)   4 contracts (Eac 25 million) under limited international bidding
(LIB) for the groundwater and irrigation studies;
(c)   20 contracts (Esc 910 million) under local competitive bidding (LCB)
for the construction of the new irrigation scheme, of various
project buildings and supply of equipment.    In addition,  LCB
procedures were used by the municipalities for most of the
infrastructures constituting the non-agricultural component.



5.6   Imolementation variances.   The variances between planned and actual
implementation are as follows: (a) rehabilLtation works of the traditional
irrigation schemes were considerably delayed due to organizational issues and the
initial lack of equipment and staff. The 150 schemes were completed by the end
of 1989 instead of end of 1987; (b) on-farm investments (credit component) took
time to be initiated, due to the time-consuming drafting of credit regulations
and guidelines. First loans were disbursed in 1984 (SAR: estimated early 1983).
The number of credit requests was much lower than expected (600 instead of 3,050)
but this was partly compensated by higher average amounts; (c) equipment and
buildings for agricultural services strengthening were generally procured on
time; some delays are reported for the completion of the second lot of milking
parlours. Surprisingly, some of the extensionists' houses, although completed,
remained unoccupied for several months; (d) the non-agricultural component was
implemented according to schedule (1982 to 1988), despite the increased volume
of construction. The health posts and centers were implemented as scheduled, but
these were not financed from the loan; (e) the agricultural research contracts
were considerably delayed (almost 2 years) because of administrative procedures
and disagreement on the themes to be tackled. The dissemination of some research
results, although not performed during the project period, were to be started
during second phase; (f) the irrigation and groundwater studies which started 2
years later than planned due to lengthy procurement procedures, were completed
by the end of 1987; (g) the implementation of the three new irrigation schemes
was delayed by an initial unsuccessful bidding. A separate contract was made for
the Curalha scheme, the construction of which lasted from July 89 to early 91.
The two other irrigation schemes are due to be developed during the follow-up
project; (h) the fellowship component concentrated on the training abroad of five
CCRN executives (66 man.months) of whom only one is still employed by the
project.
5.7   One of the major risks initially identified was that the technical
proposals for agriculture, entirely new for the farmers, would encounter
application difficulties; therefore a sound and well funded research component
was designed, including interaction with the extension staff. Unfortunately, the
results of that component were not available during the project period; so the
impact of those packages would be assessed only during the follow-up project.
6. Main Prolect Results
General Agricultural Outcome
6.1   The major agricultural development achievements within the project area
were largely due to changes in the cropping pattern and genetic improvement of
cattle. The project endeavored to convert areas under cereals into productive
permanent sown pastures, to limit nematode infestations in the potato areas and
to increase fertilizer applications on traditional pastures. In the Douro area,
the main project emphasis was on financing the plantation of new vineyards in
selected areas, supported by modern methods of vine husbandry. Project actions
also encompassed livestock production, which was assuming an increasingly
important role in agriculture, cattle and sheep providing a significant



contribution to national milk and meat production. The main project thrust here
was on genetic improvement of animals, better management of pastures, more
efficient fodder harvesting and conservation, and organization of modern
technologies of milk collection.
Rehabilitation of Traditional Irriaatiou Bch--es
6.2   Out  of a potential  of  1,500  small  irrigation  schemes,  the project
rehabilitated 150 schemes, totalling 5,860 ha, i.e. 39 ha on average per unit
(SAR estimate: 50 ha).
6.3   Rehabilitation works consisted mainly of repair or reconstruction of
diversion weirs, construction of concrete water tanks and main canals of limited
size and simple design. The project supplied basic material (cement, iron, wood,
etc.), construction equipment, skilled labor and technical assistance, the
unskilled labor being provided by the beneficiaries (about 20% of the total
cost).  The development of such a collaborative effort has been an important
outcome of the project. The quality of the works has been generally good.
6.4   Due to initial difficulties (farmer mobilization, lack of technical staff
for design and supervision, lack of equipment and vehicles) the implementation
rate was limited to 10 schemes per year in 1983 and 1984, but this increased to
30 schemes from 1986 to 1990.
6.5   The considerable success of this component, which fully achieved its
specific objectives, is demonstrated by the magnitude of the present demand for
further rehabilitation works: more than 400 requests are on the waiting list.
6.6   The conditions of implementation and qualitative achievements were assessed
by the UTAD Evaluation Unit2/; but the accurate impact of the works on
agricultural production remains to be quantified.
Develoiment of Now Irriaation Schemes
6.7   The project envisaged the construction of 3 new irrigation schemes of about
150 ha each; the future of irrigation development in Tras-O-Montes, the farmers'
response, the administration capacity of implementation and its economic
viability was to be assessed.
6.8   The results of this component  are disappointing: after  lengthy and
complicated procurement procedures, the Curalha irrigation schemer was
constructed in 1989/90, to irrigate 100 ha of potatoes, wheat and forages for
1 Ref. UTAD - Helhoria dos Regadios Tradicionais - Dec. 1990.
v  One earth dam. 16m high, would store 800,000 m. and deliver water to an irrigation network.
comprising a 2,900 m long concrete canal and a mixed 4,600 m long system of PVC pipes and
open concrete watercourses.



-7 -
livestock. The main constraints for further development have been: the lack of
suitable sites combining favorable conditions for water storage and for
irrigation, the extremely high cost of this scheme which was more than US$ 21,000
per ha, the difficulty of introducing high value crops which results in the very
low economic rate of return (Part III, Table 6.C) and the administrative
difficulties involved in the management of such scheme.   A new approach is
required for the future.   The aim should be the design of low-cost main
infrastructure, the involvement of farmers in the financing of the distribution
networks and the on-farm works, and looking for innovative means to increase
agricultural production. In order to improve the project economic viability, the
preferred approach should be for multi-purpose development (power, domestic water
supply and irrigation).
On-Farm Investments
6.9   In order to support efforts to increase agricultural production, five farm
models were designed and for each of them, credit provided from the project was
due to help farmers to finance the required investments. These investments were
officially specified for each farm model. Many farmers have not taken advantage
of the credit facilities even if they have partially adopted the technical
package. Besides, the latter was not always adaptable to the specific conditions
of each farm. However, farmers were requested to adopt the full package. This
and the fact that smaller farmers would not need to use the credit facility if
they would be willing to use only part of the package are probably the main
reasons why the number of loans distributed by the project was largely below the
target (Part III, Table 4). On the other hand, the average areas of farms having
benefitted from loans were always larger, and in some cases much larger, than the
planned areas. This explains why some targets, in terms of ha, were exceeded
even when the planned number of farms were not met.
6.10 Vineyard Establishment. The loan agreement had planned that 1,200 ha of
plantation and 1,000 ha of replantation would be financed by the project. The
target has been revised by the Government which has gazetted that 2,500 ha of
Vineyard could be planted or replantedY (Portaria No. 685/82).  Applications
for new vineyards totalled 9,000 ha out of which 2,535 ha were authorized
(2,525 ha of plantation and 10 ha only of replantation).   Two main reasons
explain the success of that model: plantation permit and the credit conditions
(15 years including four years grace).
6.11 Vales Sub-Montanas. The objective of that model was to better balance the
crop and animal productions by modifying the cropping pattern and investing in
cows and stables. Farmers have understood the rationale of that model, which was
to secure regular income from milk production. However, the profitability of the
model was marginal, and therefore the number of loans disbursed was 62% lower
than planned (Part III, Table 4). On the other hand, the average farm size was
much larger than estimated and the actual total area largely exceeded the target
Y Plantation of vineyard is strictly controlled in the Douro zone.



- 8 -
by 154%. It should also be noted that many farmerg have totally or partially
adopted the technical package proposed by the project even if they have not
applied for a credit. As a result, milk production has increased significantly;
that increase was also facilitated by the construction and equipment of more than
one hundred milking parlours disseminated within the region (Para 32).
6.12 Terra Ouente. The financial viability of this model remains doubtful and
it had limited success: 11% and 60% respectively of the planned number of farms
and total area. Some large farms (from 70 to 700 ha), but no small farmers (6
ha on average) who were invited to form groups in order to be eligible for credit
participated in the project.   The limited success can be explained by the
uncertain profitability of the recommended investments combined with the
obligation to join groups which were not attractive enough to convince small
farmers to participate in the project.
6.13  Montanha.   The lack of success of the Montanha model  (10% and 19%
respectively of the planned number of farms and total area) was most likely the
result of reservations farmers had vis-a-vis the technical package. In addition,
it was only in 1986 that the Ministry of Agriculture removed the ban on import
of the breed provided in the project.
6.14 Planalto Mirandes. The technical package proposed by the project, largely
based on meat production, did not convince the farmers who, at that time, were
interested in increasing their milk production. The latter seems to be the main
reason why, about 5% only of the planned 350 farmers applied for credit.
Strencythening of Agricultural services
6.15 The project was to provide 60 new houses and 157 vehicles for the extension
staff, two veterinary laboratories, an artificial insemination unit, a seed
laboratory and 109 milking parlours.   With the exception of the veterinary
laboratories, artificial insemination unit and seed laboratories which were not
built and equipped, the planned targets were met at 90%.  The 131 procured
vehicles have been allocated, most of the 54 houses for the extension staff are
now occupied, and the 107 milking parlour. are already being used at 75% of their
capacity.   Small farmers were convinced that milking parlours are the best
solution to reduce labor requirements  and to get high quality milk thus
benefitting from better prices.  Milking parlours are managed by cooperatives
which charge 1 Esc. per litre to farmers to cover operating and capital costs.
Agricultural Research
6.16 Research priorities included three categories of research programs: (a)
research on the main farming systems in the project area, to identify socio-
economic and technical constraints at farm level, to test solutions that address
these constraints and to initiate research according to farmers' needs; (b)
specific research programs to support on-going development activities, such as
chestnut, almond and olive tree planting, improvement of water use under



irrigated and rainfed conditions, potato seed production, etc.; and (c) research
programs to identify new promising crops suitable for the ecological conditions
of the project area such as agroforestry species, aromatic and medicinal plants,
legume crops (e.g. chick-peas, groundnuts), etc.
6.17 In 1984, a contract was signed between CCRN and UTAD for the implementation
of 17 agricultural research and economic studies!/, (selected by the parties
involved and the DRATM); one of the studies was related to the Evaluation Unit
of the project (see para 50).
6.18 Each subject was to be monitored by a DRATM specific subject matter
specialist, but due to high staff turn-over, this monitoring left much to be
desired. The progress of the studies was assessed twice a year by 3 research
specialists of the Regional Agriculture Development Programme which is now
entrusted with field applications of the studies' results.
6.19 The quality of UTAD contribution is considered too academicV as it is not
easy to extract technical messages which could be practically disseminated to the
farmers.
Agricultural Extension
6.20 At Agrarian zone level, the "training and visit" extension system was set
up as recommended by the project. Total staffing and level of training of the
DRATM extensionists are as follows: 11 extension coordinators, 97 field extension
agents, of whom 5 engineers, 40 technical engineers, and 52 technicians; in
addition, 12 extensionists are employed by the cooperatives.
6.21 Despite early staff mobilization (2/3 of the staff recruited in 1983) the
system was difficult to establish until the end of 1989. The main constraints
reducing the efficiency of the service included: lack of extensionists training,
absence of subject matter specialists and of Documentation and Information
support, absence of a comprehensive annual extension program, lack of transport,
limited budget allocations, and problems with the Cooperative extension,
particularly Cooperative Unions Potato Seed Growers and Lactimontes.
6.22 The situation has now improved for the following reasons: four training
courses are now available for the extensionists: fruit crops, vineyard, livestock
and horticulture; conditions of service, in particular salaries, have improved
considerably since 1990; the DRATM extension program is now in line with the
national program and benefit from elaborated guidelines; 57 liaison vehicles were
provided in 1990 and 1991.
S 5AR: 25 studies were pIoposed.
E Bach topic was the subject of a University Degree.



- 10 -
Studies
6.23 The project financed hydrogeologic investigations to evaluate the
groundwater potential of the region and two feasibility studies on promising
sites for irrigation development.
6.24  Groundwater Sivestiaations.  In 24 representative sub-areas, 322 boreholes
and 68 shallow wells were drilled.   The overall results were disappointing:
specific boreholes discharges did not exceed 5 1/s and the total for the 322
boreholes  was  350  1/s.    All  collected  data  were  communicated  to  the
municipalities, with a view to using the boreholes for domestic water supply.
More encouraging results were obtained in the alluvial Chaves Plain, where unit
discharges of up to 40 1/s could be exploited for irrigation.  In total, 3.5Mm3
of groundwater could be pumped annually which will be mixed with 13.3Mm3 of
surface water to be regularized, in order to supply the future 3,800 ha Chaves
irrigation perimeter. Geothermical resources, for possible further development
of urban complexes and greenhouses heating, were also identified during the
campaign.
6.25  Chaves Valley Irrigation DeveloDment.  Between mid 1985 and the end of
1987, a feasibility study was undertaken by a group of consultants. A priority
area of about 2,500 ha (out of a potential totalling 3,800 ha), including the
rehabilitation of the existing 1,000 ha irrigated, would be developed under the
second phase project; the construction should start early 1992. Water resources
would be provided by diversion of the Tamega river, storage dams are to be
constructed on tributaries and groundwater pumped in the aquifer.   Cropping
pattern would give priority to forages (alfalfa, maize) but also corn and
vegetables (mainly potatoes and cabbages) would be produced as well as fruit
trees. The economic rate of return of the sub-project was estimated to be 18%.
6.26 The Freixo-de-Espada-A-Cinta Olive grove Irrigation Studies. The study
aimed to develop a 950 ha irrigation system to pump the Douro water and to
distribute it to an existing olive grove installed on a steep bank of the river.
High costs of infrastructure and excessive recurrent operation expenses induced
the Administration to abandon the project since it was not considered to be
economically viable. As requested by the 30 owners of the grove, an electric
power line was installed along the river (financed by EEC funds) and individual
pumping systems were installed by most of the farmers at their own costs.
Non-Aaricultural Comoonents
6.27 The project assigned 48% of the total expenses to the municipalities for
the construction of general and social infrastructure (para. 5 and table 4).
6.28 It is estimated that 360,000 inhabitants, i.e. 62% of the Tras-Os-Montes
population, have benefitted from at least one of the 720 schemes implemented
under this component. The whole program was completed by the end of 1988.



- 11 -
6.29 The initial program of construction has been considerably amplified in
terms of quantities without exceeding significantly the initial cost estimates
(see Table 4).  This was mainly due to the prevailing economic conditions in
Portugal from 1983 to 1986, which induced lower construction costs than expected,
thus allowing a significant program expansion.
6.30 Designs of the infrastructure were prepared by the Offices for Technical
Support (GAT) installed in each of the 6 agrarian zones. The project contributed
to the strengthening of those GAT, by providing equipment and vehicles.
6.31 The operation and maintenance activities will be the responsibility of the
municipalities. The corresponding recurrent expenses for the rural roads, the
sewage system and school classrooms are covered by their own budgets; for the
water supply schemes, these expenses are fully recovered by the water charges
paid by the users.
6.32 This non agricultural component had a positive impact on the standards of
living in the region and allowed this neglected region to move closer to national
standards.
Nonitorina and Evaluation
6.33 The project established in January 1983 a Project Administration Unit (PAU)
within the CCRN.  The PAU which was adequately staffed, prepared semi-annual
progress reports which were sent on time to the Bank;  project Accounts were
correctly kept. These satisfactory results were achieved in spite of a frequent
staff turn-over.  However, due to a lack of professionals with a practical
experience in evaluation, the PAU was unable to guide the Project Evaluation Unit
(PEU) established, as recommended by the SAR, within the University of Tras-Os-
Montes and Alto Douro. The PEU did not recruit enough researchers and assistants
to staff the Unit and did not receive adequate support from internationally
recruited specialists in monitoring and evaluation as recommended by the SAR.
As a result, the PEU program of work has not included the planned general
economic survey, but gave priority to qualitative studies on sociological issues.
The lack of basic economic data of the Tras-Os-Montes region has not helped
project management in its decision-making process.
Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Technical Assistance
6.34 The bulk of the technical assistance (TA) has been provided by local
consulting firms for the above described studies (para 40). Several specific
agronomic, economic and social studies were carried out by UTAD upon CCRN and
DRATM requests, in addition to agricultural research studies (para 37). Some
limited TA was provided by DGEAH to start the irrigation rehabilitation
component. The project did not make full use of the TA expertise foreseen at
appraisal, namely for animal health, artificial insemination, monitoring and



- 12 -
evaluation, local staff training, for which international consultants should have
been recruited.
2.    Trainin
6.35 The training component focused on fellowships in British and French
Universities for 5 CCRN executives of whom only one is still employed by the
project.   Two Deputy Directors left the administration a few months after
rejoining the project, one obtained a continuing fellowship under other funding
arrangements.   As a result, the 66 man-months used by CCRN, or 86% of the
training expenses, have had little impact on the project. The remaining 14% was
allocated to local training of DRATM and FENACAM staff.
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
6.36 Although project impact data were not collected by the PEU, the mission,
working with DRATM and CCRN specialists, was able to make reasonable estimates
allowing for a without and with project comparison of some models.  Two farm
models, (Montanha and Planalto Mirandes) have not been included in the
calculation, the number of participating farmers having been considered too low.
The Financial Rates of Return (FRR) on the farm investment were estimated in the
SAR to vary from 19% to 37%. They are presently calculated to vary from 1 to 16%
(Part III, Table 6B). The Douro model has the highest FRR and the Terra Quente
model the lowest. The FRR of the Vales Sub-Montanes model (9%) is marginal. In
addition to these models designed during preparation, a fourth model for
Irrigation Rehabilitation has been included in the analysis to take into account
the large areas which were rehabilitated by the project and whose beneficiaries
have not been included in the other models.  The FRR of the fourth model is very
high (more than 89%) because farmers were only asked to finance 20% of the
rehabilitation cost.
6.37 The estimated actual Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is slightly higher than
anticipated at appraisal (18% instead of 16%) in spite of a lower than planned
rate of farmer participation and a low ERR of two of the models (Part III, Table
6C).   This results  from the  fact that the high ERRs  of the  Irrigation
Rehabilitation and the Douro models have more than compensated for the low
profitability of the other two models mentioned above.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1   Most of the project components are likely to maintain an acceptable level
of benefits throughout their economic life:
(a)   the rehabilitated traditional irrigation schemes are expected to be
correctly maintained because farmers appreciate the value of water
and they have agreed to contribute to the rehabilitation works. The
expected benefit resulting from the use of increased quantities of



- 13 -
water and from a more practical management (night irrigation is no
longer necessary) were sufficiently attractive to convince farmers
of contributing to the rehabilitation work and this should be a
guarantee that maintenance will be properly carried out;
(b)   farmers who have adopted new technical packages namely for milk and
high quality grapes production, are likely to continue following the
advice of the Agriculture Service, if farm-gate prices are
maintained. It is even probable that due to the strengthening of
the extension services, new technical packages developed by the
applied research will be disseminated within the project area;
(c)   the milking parlours constructed and equipped by the project are
already or are in the process of being managed by cooperatives.
Until now, the experience has shown that cooperatives run the
milking parlours efficiently and that operating and capital costs
are adequately covered by the charge paid by the farmers.
(d)   the infrastructures built under the non-agricultural  component
should remain operational for several decades, provided sufficient
funds are put at the disposal of the municipalities for their proper
maintenance.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory, taking
into account the political situation in Portugal and the complexity of the
project. Generally, Bank supervision missions identified key problems and were
able to propose actions to remedy them. There was, nevertheless, discontinuity
in supervision staffing during part of the project (three Task Managers in seven
years) and some specializations were not often or never represented (Economist,
Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, in particular).
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   The project benefitted from very competent staff, most of them fully
involved from the beginning of preparation and during the whole implementation
period. It is worth mentioning the exceptional performance of the DRATM Director
of Agricultural Planning, to whom the project successes should mainly be
attributed.
9.2   The Borrower's main strengths were: the full involvement in project
preparation of the local team responsible for its implementation which was very
useful in determining project objectives.  Also, the project benefitted from
strong management, particularly at the regional level; the difficult tasks to
optimize the use of the various financing agencies was quite successfully
performed. Finally, the active participation of the implementing agencies, in
particular those involved in the agricultural credit and the vineyard
development; the dynamism of municipalities in implementing the social



- 14 -
infrastructure; and the generally favorable response of the farmers to the
project activities are worthy of note.
9.3   The main weaknesses of the Borrower relate to: reluctance to mobilize TA,
in particular to recruit international consultants; the limited assistance
provided by DGEAH for the development of new irrigation schemes; the incomplete
project evaluation by UTAD which was reluctant to provide quantified results; the
difficulties to extract from the agricultural research studies practical
technical messages which could be disseminated to the farmers through the
extension services and the difficulties in organizing the extension services.
Lessons Learned
9.4   The main lessons learned and recommendations for projects of this type are:
(a) although integrated agricultural development has now been questioned, the
success of the PDRITM project was mainly due to this approach which was
considered to be the best given the prevailing regional conditions; project
managers sought integration within project components and consistency with the
regional policies; (b) the complexity of such integrated rural development
projects requires a close and permanent coordination between the executive
agencies; (c) due to the very high cost of the pilot irrigation scheme, the
design and economic viability of future schemes should be thoroughly studied; (d)
more effort should be made to monitor applied agricultural research in order to
ensure that practical recommendations and messages are disseminated to farmers
through extension agents; (a) the early establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system is of great importance for effective project implementation;
(f) the work program of the UTAD evaluation unit should have been more clearly
defined. There should have been closer collaboration between CCRN, charged with
monitoring the project, and the UTAD specialists; interim reports should have
been discussed by all parties involved and short-term action programs should have
guided the work of the evaluation unit. For the second phase project, CCRN and
UTAD responsibilities, as far as monitoring and evaluation is concerned, should
be redefined and a detailed program of work for the evaluation unit should be
drafted as soon as possible.
10. Proiect Relationshio
10. 1 The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was excellent during the
whole project implementation period. The recommendations made by the numerous
supervision missions were considered useful and were generally followed by
concrete action. and when necessary, corrective measures.
11. Consulting Service.
11.1 The groundwater investigations and the two irrigation feasibility studies
were satisfactorily carried out by local consulting firms, associated with
foreign consultants. The total cost of two consultant services was almost twice



- 15 -
the SAR estimate, due to the increase volume of work for the reconnaissance
drillings. While one of the main tasks of these consultants was supposed to be
the training of local staff, the latter did not appear to benefit from any
significant transfer of knowledge.
11.2 Out of the 20 man-months of internationally recruited consultants provided
under the project, to help implement the Monitoring and Evaluation component, 20
man weeks only have been utilized. As a result, the project manager has not been
supported as foreseen.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 Both the Loan Agreement with the Republic of Portugal and the Project
Agreement with IFADAP (for the Credit Component) were quite adequate and
appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key organizational and
financial aspects.  The SAR provided a useful guide to the project management
during implementation and to the PCR mission. Nevertheless, the Bank did not
point out that it was to be used only as a "guide" and that changes may be
required.
12.2 From 1983 to 1990, the CCRN Project Administration Unit (PAU) prepared 11
semestrial progress reports following a standard presentation agreed to by the
Bank. Early in 1991, the PAU drafted a final progress report summarizing the
whole project implementation. Some information was extracted from that report
for the PCR, but the content of the PAU report does not respond clearly to the
queries listed in the World Bank guidelines for preparing PCRs.  Perhaps, an
additional effort should have been made by the last supervision mission to
describe the type of information required for the final progress report.



- 16 -
PART II: PROJNCT REVIEW FROM BORROWNR'S PZRSPECTIVE'
13. Critical Risks
13.1 The progressive and selective process that commanded the preparation of the
project identified a set of implementation risks, mainly related with the
following areas:
(a)   irrigation  -  related  with  the  capability  for  planning  and
construction of new irrigation schemes; and
(b)   agricultural credit - inherent to the relative adequacy of the
investment models to be proposed to the farmers, and to their
adoption of new practices and cultural systems.
13.2 In what concerns to the construction of new irrigation schemes, and with
the purpose of minimizing the risk identified, we have limited this action to the
construction of three schemes, which was an attainable goal, considering the
implementation capability of the institutions involved.   By the end of the
project implementation period only two of such schemes had been built, one of
them not yet completed as its irrigation network was still under construction.
13.3 In what refers to the technical packages to be presented to the farmers,
although partly developed and dominated on experimental stations, they had not
been exhaustively tested in the region.  As a result, it was assumed they
eventually might not fully address the local expectations, thus calling for a
need of further adjustments. In order to minimize such risk, a large programme
of applied agricultural research was implemented, together with the strengthening
of the DRATH's extension services and the establishment of credit lines in
particularly favourable conditions. In practice, however, some of the investment
models, namely in " Montanha" and "Planalto" experienced very low rates of global
adoption, by the farmers who, nevertheless, have adopted an important part of the
technical recommendations for agricultural restructuring proposed under the
project.
14.   Some Li-itina Factors
14.1 The project has experienced some external factors which limited the full
achievement of its fundamental objectives, with more serious consequences in
areas related with the agricultural component. As major external causes for that
situation it may be referred:
(a)   a 9-month delay in the signature of the Loan Agreement, followed by
another period of 4 months that became necessary for the Portuguese
Government to fulfill its conditions of effectiveness;
V     This section was prepared by the Commission of the Northern Region (CCRN), the project's
administration unit.



- 17 -
(b)   the late definition and operationalization of the agricultural
credit lines, which did not permit any investment project to be
financed under the Loan before the end semester of 1984;
(c)   institutional difficulties that restricted both the recruitment of
staff and the definition and timely availability of budgetary funds,
which resulted in a serious barrier to the implementation and
follow-up of the project; and
(d)   the progressive do-valuation of the national currency against the US
Dollar,   which   limited  the  actual   disbursements   schedule,
comparatively to the SAR estimates.
15. Kain Results
15. 1 As a first and general conclusion, we can point out that the project's most
important objective - "the improvement of the living standards of the population"
- was satisfactorily achieved, particularly in what the non-agricultural
component was concerned, whereby an important part of TOM population benefitted
from the infrastructure programme carried out by the municipalities under the
project.
15.2 On the contrary, the improvement of the living standards linked to
increases of the farmers, revenue had only a significant expression through the
investment models of "Douro" and "Vales Sub-Montanos". It must also underline
the strong impact that the "Rehabilitation of Traditional Irrigation Schemes" had
on the improvement of the social and economical levels of inhabitants of the
areas affected by that component.
15.3 In what concerns to be the strengthening of the Public Administration
structure in the region, the project supplied the participating institutions and
departments with material conditions (premises, equipment, etc.) at a level
considered  acceptable.   However,  it was  never  possible  to overcome  the
difficulties in keeping the staff at the levels identified as necessary, either
because of the non-flexible recruitment policies imposed, or due to the lack of
specific benefits that could be made available to that staff, in order to
encourage their attraction to less developed areas, as the TOM region.
15.4 Likewise, the efforts made in order to increase the dynamics and the
strengthening of cooperatives and agricultural organization were not considered
as satisfactory.
15.5 Despite the above-mentioned limiting factors, it must be acknowledged that
the project was a general success and even exceeded some of the targets initially
set.  Much of this performance was only possible due to the well-coordinated
intervention of the different institutions and departments participating in the
project coordination, management and implementation, at the regional level,
namely CCRN/GATs, DRATM, Local Authorities, IFADAP and FENACAM/CCAMs. It can
even be stated that one of the positive results of the project was, indeed, the
adoption, by the regional Public Administration of new standards of inter-



- 18 -
institutional relationship, which allowed - and still allow - the problems of
regional development to be approached on a consensual basis.
15.6  It was further acknowledged that the organizational structure established
under the project, namely the Administration and the Evaluation Units, strongly
contributed to the timeliness and effectiveness of the decisions taken by the
project coordination.
16. Lessons Learned
16.1 The main lessons of experience that can be drawn from the project
implementation include:
(a)   the need to ensure an effective and permanent institutional support;
(b)   the importance of guaranteeing, since early stages, an effective
monitoring and evaluation system working closely with the project
coordination and the departments involved on its implementation;
(c)   the need for a flexible management process, to ensure that timely
measures are taken to adapt proposals and schedules to the real
evolution of project implementation; and
(d)   the decisive role played by the World Bank Supervision Missions, in
recommending and defining proposals which are vital to an adequate
implementation of this kind of project. In particular, a special
emphasis is needed in establishing the frequency and composition of
those Missions, so that projects can take the best out of them.



- 1Q -
Table I
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number   Year of               Purpose             Loan Amount             Status
Approval                                (USS Millions)
L-1603        1978    Agricultural Credit                 70        Closed June 1984
L-1853        1980    Forestry                            so        Closed September 1989
L-2175        1982    TOM Rural Development               51        Closed December 1989
L-24S7        1984    TA Agriculture                       7.4      Closed June 1989
L-3035        1989    TOM Regional Development            90        Under Implementation



-20-                          Table 2
2. Project Timetable
Item           Planned Date   |   Revised Date   |   Actual Date
Reconnaissance             -                  -               XI 1977
Identification          IV 1978            VII 1978           IX 1978
Pre-preparation         IX 1979               -               IX 1979
Preparation             III 1980              -              VIII 1980
Appraisal                  -                  -               XI 1980
Post-appraisal             -                  -               III 1982
Negotiations            VII 1981              -               IV 1982
Board Approval          X 1981                -               VI 1982
Loan Signature                                -               III 1983
Loan Effectiveness         -                  -               VII 1983
Loan Closing            XII 1988              -               XII 1989
Loan Completion         VI 1989               -               VI 1990



- 21 -                                        Table 3
Page 1 of 2
3. Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
SAR Es-imates                            Acauaj
WB           Semester                                                I                                Ac tuaa %
Yerr         Ending                    |CumlatDisbursement I Cuuativ    Disbusemen                   d t s
Year                                                              Dis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fbursed
l_____................... USMillion..................._
1983        XII 1982          0.8             0.8
VI 1983          0.9             1.7            -
1984        XII 1983          2.4             4.1            0.0            0.0             0              0
VI 1984          4.0             6.4            0.3            0.3             0             S
1985        XII 1984          4.3            10.7            0.3            0.6             1              6
VI 1985          4.2            14.9            1.7            2.3             5             iS
1986        XII 1985          5.8            20.7            8.7           11.0            25             53
VI 1986          5.4            26.1            7.5           18.5            42             71
1987        XII 1986          6.3            32.4            4.3           22.8            51             70
VI 1987          5.8            38.2            3.0           25.8            58             68
1988        XII 1987          4.5            42.7            2.9           28.7            65             67
VI 1988          3.8            46.5            6.2           34.9            79             75
1989        XII 1988          4.5            51.0            2.5           37.4            84             73
VI 1989          -               -              6.2           43.6            98             85
1990        Xll 1989                           -             0.7           44.3           100             87
VI 1990                                          '            4431t          100             87
US$6.7 million were cancelled at closing date.



B. Disbursements by category
e te1/             n~           n             nT           n            n            n            nT      I T IrT           u     Actu l 
I  I  I  I  I  I 9                     I              (revised)    Estimte
............. .UsS'000 .
1. AgriculturaL credit
a. by IFADAP                                                   .                  -             -            -           -               2.000           0
b. distributed by Pls               -U                    4,231         3,096        4,176        3,087        1,137       15,817       19,000          83
2. a. C utruction mterials            96            32          177          170          931           328          432       2,168        2,000          108
for irrigation
rehabiitatian works
b. Equipgnt, vehicles wnd         114          542          530           320          620          225           60        2,411        4,000          60
materials for
agricultural services
3. Civil works for                     -          664           366          318          558           411          309       2,626        3,200          82
agricultursl services
4. Research, studies, pilot           42           416          903        1,337        1,864         2,174        1,768       6,50         6,000          106
projects wid trainirg
S. Civil morks for                     -             -        7,306        2,077          914         2,421           67      12,M         10,000          128
nmicipalities
6. untilocated                                                                               -            .                  -              2,800            0
TOTAL                                                                                                                         U,311        51,600          87
w a'
Ft
U
Accadng LA scheAd* 1.



-23-                                               Table 4
4. Project Implementation Ratios
(Key Indicators)
I           ~~Planned SARRao
CoUpoocat                         Unit        (or sevisd)        Atuall      actua/planned
A. Irritio  Rebilitation
- Number of schemes                             U                    150            1WO               100
- Are  rehabilitated                            ba                  7,50           5,860               78
a O0-arm investments
1. Farm models ('P Loans /Ha)                 Revised
- Vales Sub-Montanos                         N                    150             93                62
ha                   900          1,389               154
- Montanha                                   N'                    200             19                10
ha                 1,200            223                19
- Planalto Mirandes                          N'                    350             18                 5
ha                 7,000            524                 7
- Terra Quente                               N'                    150             17                11
ha                 4,500          2,680                60
- Douro                                      N'                  2,200            455                21
ha                 2,200          2,535               115
2. Procurement (main items)
- Heifers                                     U                  6,100            900                IS
- Lambs                                       U                  7,500          3,580               48
- Construction (shelters)                    m2n                               27,000
- Permanent pasture                           ha                 7,900          2,315        -       29
- Tractors                                    U                    180             73                41
- Seed drills                                 U                     30              2                 1
- Mowers                                      U                    180             26                33
- Pick-up balers                              U                     30              1
C Agricultural Services
- Houses for extension staff                  U                     60             54                90
- Vet. LAboratories +
Insemination Unit                           U                      3               -               -
- Milking pariour                             U                    109            107                98
- 4-WD vehicles                               U                     25             14               56
- Cars                                        U                    132            117                89
D. Noo-Agricultural Inhastructure
- Construction of rural roads                km                     80            140               175
- Improvement of rural roads                 km                    120            256               213
- Paving of strect                         '000 rr2                343            595               173
- Water Supply Schemes                       N'                    220            242               110
- Sewage systems                             N'                     65            154               236
- Construction & rehabilitation of
dassrooms                                   N'                    60            157               262
- Health posts'l/                             U                      2              2               100
- Health centres1/                            U                     12              7                58
a Aicltural R--earch (see AppendiL 1)
- Research contracts                          U                     2S             17                68
P. Iriation Trias
- Nce irrigation schemes                     ha                3 x 145         1 x 100               23
(Curalha)
GL FeP_iy Studies
- Groundwater investigations                  U                      1              1               100
(incl. exploratory wells)
- Expanson of the Chaves irription
schemes                                     U                       I             1               100
- Olive development study (Freixo)            U                      1              1               100
IL Feloashp.
CCRN                                           m.m.                   36             66               183
1, not financed by the project.



S. Project Costs and Fi.a*cmdg
A. PDRITM  - Breakdown of project costs by Loan Categories (in 1,000 C = 106 Esc.)
at 30.06.1990
Cateorles (-eeefagn sdhedute I               19e          1954         19d          19eo         197          19U         19w          19WO         Total       SA5RI/
of the Lomn Agre _nt)                           I            I
1 - Credit (On-form Investment)                                 -            368          668          407          545         374           -          2,362        3,095
2  - Irrigation Red*ablitation                     2            16            24           37           80          105          140          57           461          622
(eonstr. Naterists)
2b   Agricultural Organization                     -            49           150           62           32           33           22          19           367          422
Equipment * Vehicles
3   Agricultural Orgenization                      -            14           203           92          101           57           89          54           610          630
Civit Works
4 - Research, fellow ship                          5            61           190          324          215          343          258         212         1,608          716
Consultents, pilot projects
and technical assistance
5   mon-agriculturat Component                     -            -          2.726          956          427          665          250                     5,024        5,164
(municipalities Works)
TOTAL                                              7           140         3,661        2,139        1,262        1,748        1,133         342        10,432       10,U49
s.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I-'
0
' k' uchzing physical and p.1ce contingencies.
Total project coats are US$7.5 eqiivatant.



- 25 -
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Financing (US$ million)
Planned               Actual as
Source            (Loan       Actual      % of
Agreement)              Planned
IBRD                         51.0       44.31       87
Government                   29.2        8.58       29
Credit Institutions          48.0        7.77       16
Sub-borrower                  6.8        0.62        9
Municipalities               14.7        6.22       42
TOTAL                        154.8      67.50       44



- 26 -                                   Table 6
Page 1 of 5
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indiloes                                                1     ttt    tcAppeakl   IDimtm   a  E md   at
Emtc    ~Caxg Date                    FM
-pindom Dewapmemat
- Irription rehabilitation (ha)                               7,500             S,860             5,860
- Number of beneficiaries                                       550               430              430
- Number of bencficiaries                                     2.200               450              450
- Production (tons of grspCs9                                13,00               3,400           11,100
Otber Pat Modes
- Number of benrficiaries                                       850               147              147
- Production of potItoesl                                       NA                NA             14,600
- Production of fodder11                                        NA                NA             42,600
- Producion of milklp                                        24,700               NA            41,500
- Number of parlours                                            109                60              107
- Milk collecded (tons)                                         NA               7,200           23,400
Nom-picultural lanrasiructures
* Water supply schemes (1,000 inhabitants)                                        188              I88
- Sewage schemes (1,000 inhabitants)                         I 117                121              121
* Vi0tage streets (number villages)                              61               101              101
(83,0O0 inh.)    (83,000 nh.)
- Rural roads (number villaps)                                   55               234              234
(102,000 inh.)    (102,000 inh.)
- Schools (1,000 inhabitants)                                   NA                 92               92
1/   Incremental production in tons or '000 fodder units.



- 27 -                    Table 6
PaRe 2 of 5
B. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return       SAR Estimates          PCR Estimates
I ~~~%                     ....   ...... 
New Irrigation                        n.a.                  - I
Irrigation Rehabilitation             n.a.                   89
Douro Zones                           20                     16
Vales Sub-Montanes                    37                      9
Terra Quente                          37                      1
Montanha                              19                     n.a.
Planalto Mirandes                     23                     n.a.
The main assumptions forming the basis for the calculation of the financial rate
of return are summarized hereunder:
(a)   Staff Appraisal Report
- Without the project, yields of grapes from vines to be replaced are
projected to fall to zero over ten years, which implies that production
on existing farms would level off at about 26% below current
production.
- Full project effect of crops are assumed to be reached by the 12th
year after project commencement whereas livestock effects would
continue to increase up to the 20th year.
(b)      Project Completion Report
- In the without project situation, no account has been taken of any
production decrease in spite of the past trend.
- In the absence of a second phase, it is assumed that the Agricultural
Service would simply assure a technical follow-up and that, therefore,
no further production increase would be obtained.
N No rate of return as farmers do not participate at the financing of the investment costs.



28 -Table 6
-28-                     Page 3 of 5
C. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of       SAR Estimate      PCR Estimate
Return
I  ~%  .....                      I
Project                         16                18
Farm Models
- New Irrigation               n.a.               2
- Irrigation                   n.a.               28
Rehabilitation
- Douro Zone                   n.a.               22
- Vales Sub-Montanes           n.a.               2
- Terra Quente                 n.a.               7
The main assumptions underlying the calculation of the project economic rate
of return are summarized hereunder:
(a)  Staff Appraisal Report:
- Econornic benefits and costs, have been valued at economic prices;;
costs include production, investment and operating costs.
- Without the project, yield of grape vines to be replaced are projected
to fall to zero over ten years which implies that production on
existing farms would level off at about 26% below current
production.
- Full project effects of crops are assumed to be reached by the 12th
year after project commencement whereas livestock effect would
continue to increase up to the 20th year.
- The investment and operating costs related to roads and social
infrastructure are omitted from the calculation, implying that their
unquantified benefits are at least equal to their cost.
- The project life in 35 years and project costs include physical
contingencies allowances.
- The official rate of exchange is considered to be a correct estimate
of the shadow exchange rate.



- 29 -                        Table 6
Page 4 of 5
- Agricultural labour is priced at the current daily wage for male
labourers.
(b)  Project Completion Report
* In the without project situation, no account has been taken of any
production decrease in spite of the present trend.
- In the absence of a second phase, it is assumed that the Agricultural
Services would simply assure a technical follow-up and that therefore
no further production increase would be obtained.
- Economic benefits and costs have been valued at economic prices
(Table 9.A). Costs include investments, operating and production
costs. Investment and operating costs related to components whose
benefits have not been estimated have been omitted from the
calculation.
* The project's life is 30 years.
* The official rate of exchange is considered to be a correct estimate
of the shadow rate of exchange.
- The opportunity cost of labour is estimated to amount to 75% of the
current daily wage.



-30  -                                         Table  6
Page 5 of 5
D. STUDIES
Studies                       Purpose                    status                     Impa
1. Groundwater study            Identification of source of  Drilled:               Favourable conditions in the
(general investiption)        Irripgtion water in 24       - 322 bormholes        Chaves Plain; elsewhere,
representative sub-aras      - 68 shallow wells     disappointing results; total
potential discharge: 350 lls
Completed
in Dec. 1987          Pousible use for local drinking
water supply schemes
2 Master plan for water         Expansion of irrigation from    Completed           Sound management of water
use in the Chaves Plain      900 to 6,000 ha               in 1986                resources
Feasibility study for the     Rehabilitation of the existing   Completed          Detailed designs of a first slice
expansion of the              perimeter (900 ha) and       in Dec. 1987           project now under preparation
Chaves perimeter              preliminary design of new                           (TOM 11)
irrigable areas
3. Olive development            Dcvelopment of irription     Completed              Due to high infrastructure
study (Freixo)               infrastructure for an olive   in April 1987          costs, GOP financed only a
plantation (952 ha)                                 crossing power line; individual
pumps were installed by the
farmers
4. Agricultural research studies    Set-up a plan for applied  17 studies eompleted    Prctical rcommendations
research to supply                                 should be disseminated to
information for crop         See App. I             farmers through extension
production incrase                                  agentsA



-  31  -                                    Table  7
7. Status of Legal Covenants
Apeement   Section              Sbort Descriptioa of Cotmts         C|mplian
Loan        3.02      ICIM to provide credit to municipalities        Full
3.04      Staff adequately GATs CCRN                      Full
3.05      PAU adequately staffed                          Too frequent turn-over
3.06(a)    Establish research team under project coordinator    Full
3.06(b)    GOP to strengthen extension service            Acted upon under new TOM U project
3.06(c)    Establish Monitoring Unit                      Full. but IaMJy
3.06(e)    Establish Evaluation Unit                      Unit established at UTAD
3.08(a)    Submit training programme for CCAMs and        Done
FENACAM
3.08(b)    GOP to carry out Agricultural Credit Services  Done
3.09(a)    Prepare animal health programmes               Due to opposition of Association of
Vets, programme never prepared
3.09(b)    Cost recovery for use of facilities constructed  Theoretically recovered
3.09(c)    Equity contribution (20%) of irrigation beneficiaries   Full
3.10(a)    On-lending rate 14.5%                          Due to decrease in innation a new rate
was set (3/87) equal to Bank rate plus
2.5% spread
3.12      Progress reports                                Submitted regularly
4.03      Participating institutions to have independent audit   Full
reports
Schedule    5         Municipalities to agree to administer infrastructure    Full
investment programme
Project     2.02      Refinancing and acceptance of PBls after Bank    Full
approval
2.03      IFADAP to provide at least 10% of subloan amount  Full
and submit first 10 subloans for Bank approval
2.04(a)    IFADAP loan not to exceed 85% of project cost  Full
2.10      IFADAP to establish branch ofrice in Chaves     Never done as considered not necessary
2.11      IFADAP to prepare training programme for        Done
DRATM and PBls staff
4.01(b)    IFADAP and PBIs to maintain separate accounts  Done
Schedule    IA        Traditional banking procedures to be applied in  Done
lending
2(c)(d)    Subborrowers to provide collaterals and ensure  Done
investment financed by loan
2(e)      Grace and maturity periods to be determined on  Done
basis of cash nlow



S.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Tmsk     IoFn  9SI   IugS?   FY 193   FY 194   FY   5 | 19U |nT19tl                    FYi8   119h9 |n1990     O1991  | OTAL
Preparation         149.0                          -                                                                               149.0
Appraisal            66.5       6.3            -        -         -         -         -        -         -              -           72.8
Negotiations                   20.6                     -                        -         -        -                              20.6
Loan Operation        4.1    . 7.4        -        -         -         -         -        -                                         11.5
ond Pltming
Sau-total        219.6     34.3       -                                       -                  -         -                   253.9
Supervision           -         -        15.7     23.5      22.9      18.2       8.4     46.5"      6.0      14.4      4.2P        159.
Project               -         -          .4      1.2       1.3       .3        1.3       -                  -                     4.5
Adminsitration
Anmatl                                    -                             .3       1.1       -        -         -                      1.4
lopl_nmtoticn 
Review
SL-total t                   -        16.1     24.7      24.2      18.8      10.8      6.S       6.0      14.4      4.2         165.7
TOTAL               219.6      34.3      16.1      24.7     24.2      13.8      10.8      4.5       6.0      14.4      4.2         419.6
0 c
*.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0
1/ include tim  spent In preparing the Tras-os-Nntes legional Development Project ihich followed.
2/ To be added: 11 mn.weeks allocated to the Completion Mission.



- 33  -                                Table  8
Page 2 of 2
B. Mission Data
star cc      Year    Numtber of Period in fild  Spedaltio|  Perfonmance    Tnd             Type of
pnjcyde                   pellns        (day)        zpc  Dted    rating     _     3         pblem
Preprantion     III 1980     3            6        n.a.
Appaisal        )a 1980      7            28       n.a.
Post-appraisal   1  1982     2            15       n.a.
Supervision 1   VII 1983     4            11       2A, 2E               1             -         F
2           XII 1983      2            13       A E                   2            2          F
3           Vll 19S4      3             7       2A, E                 2            2         M
4             111985      4             7       2A, E, F              2            2        M. P
5           Vll 19S5      2             6       A, E                  2            1        M, P
6             1119S6      2             9       A, L                  2            1        M, P
7            VI 19S6      1             2       A                   n.s.          n.a.       n.a.
8            TV 1986      1            11       L                     2           n.a.       n.s.
9             X 19S7      2            10        F, C                 2           n.a.       n.a.
10          VII 1989      4            13       F, 1, T               1           n.a.       n.s.
11           in 1990      4             18      F,l,A,C               -
Completion      VI 1991      2            13       C,E                  -
1/   A. Agronomist; E: Economist; F: Fmancial Analyst; L: Livestock Specialist; C: Civil Engineer, 1:
Agroindustrial Specialist; T: Extension Specialist.
2/ 1: Problem free or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems.
3/   1: Improving, 2. Stationary, 3: Deteriorating.
4/   F: Fnancial; M: Managerial; T: Technical; P: Political; 0: Other.



Table 9
Page 1 of 9
9. Economic and Financial Analysis
A. List of Financial and Economic Prices at Farm gate                                  (Page 1)
Unit           inanlPrio  c      I    E         PmocicPrice
oUrms                                                                                 .. . ... 
Wheat                                                        kg                        49.7                    40
Rye                                                          kg                        45.7                    31
Potatoes                                                     kg                        35                      35
French Bean                                                  kg                        75                      75
Italian Cabbage                                              kg                        65                      65
Grapes for Porto Wine                                        kg                       200                     200
Grapes for Table Wine                                        kg                        70                      70
,Fodder Unit
- Cattle Production                                        FU                         30                      26
- Sheep Production                                         FU                         20                      20
- Wheat                                                     kg                       50                       38
-Rye                                                       kg                        46                       35
- Vets                                                      kg                       120                      90
- Lolium Italicum                                          kg                       300                     225
- Qover                                                    kg                       550                     413
, Potatoes                                                 kg                        85                      64
- French Beans                                             kg                       450                     338
- Italian Cabbage                                         plant                      20                       15
Fertilizes
- Anonium Nitrate                                          kg                        29                      22
- Superphosphate                                           kg                        24                       18
- Compound 7,14,14                                         kg                        39.7                    30
-    -    10,10,10                                         kg                        36                      27
15,15,10                                        kg                        51                      38
Insecticide                                                  kg                       600                    450
Foagicde                                                     kg                     1,320                     990
Animl Feed (Milking Cow)                                     kg                        42                      32



Table 9
Page 2 of 9
A. List of Financial and Economic Prices at Farm gate                                  (Page 2)
U-it                 a *u1 Pdal pEcoomic Puce
Mechankatio :
- Tractor                                                  hour                    2,200                   1,650
- Combine                                                  hour                   13,000                   9,750
- Mower                                                    hour                     1,000                    750
Labour Unsilled                                              day                     1,500                   1,125
Labour Un ekiled (Peak Sesonl )                             day                     2,C00                   1,500
EQU1PMNT, BULDINGS, IRRIGATION -
Hcifer                                                      head                   270,000                 202500
Ewe                                                         head                    13,000                   9,750
Ram                                                         head                    20,000                  15,000
Cowshed                                                      m2                     15,000                  12,000
Pen                                                          m2                      7,500                   6,000
Temporary Pasture                                            ha                     65,000                  48,750
Fence                                                        m                         50                      38
Vineyad                                                      ha                  1,900,000               1,425.000
;    rintign
- New scheme                                              ha                  4,082,000               2,932,000
- Rehabilitation                                          ha                    184,000                 147,000
Source: DRATM, DHEA, TOM Regional Development Project SAR and Mission estimate.
1/ Douro Zone only.



-36-                                             Table 9
Page 3 of 9
B. Farm Model 1 - New Irrigation (1 ha) -
Cash Flow
1-2      3-4         5        6         7    8-19   20-30
A. Without project situatfon
Gross value of production                                66.1    66.1    66.1    66.1    66.1    66.1    66.1
Production costs
Mechanization                                            10.1    10.1    10.1        10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1
inputs                                                  20.3    20.3       20.3      20.3     20.3      20.3    20.3
Labour                                                    8.6      8.6      8.6       8.6       8.6      8.6       8.6
Sub-total                                                39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0    39.0   .39.0    39.0
Balance without project situation                        27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1
S. With project situation
... ..................
Investment costs
Production costs
.... ....     ....
Mechanization                                            10.1      7.6    35.8       44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8
Inputs                                                  20.3    15.2    62.6         78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2
Labour                                                    8.6      6.5    57.2       71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5
water charges /a                                            -                                      -    51.0         -
Sub-total                                                39.0    29.3   155.6   194.5   194.5   245.5   194.5
Total costs                                              39.0    29.3   155.6   194.5   194.5   245.5   194.5
Gross value of production                                66.1    49.6   251.0   334.7   376.6   418.4   418.4
Balance with project situation                           27.1    20.3    95.4    140.2   182.1   172.9   223.9
C. Incremental
Increfmental costs                                          -    -9.7   116.6   155.5   155.5   206.5   155.5
Incremental benefits                                        -   -16.5   184.9   268.6   310.5   352.3   352.3
Incremental net benefits                                    -    -6.8    68.3   113.1   155.0   145.8   196.8
s===  ====   =     =  :===  =        ==  ====
Source: DRATM, OHEA and Mission Estimates
..........................................
,............................................................................ . ...
/a Cost recovery calculated on the base of the present policy:
1SX of total Investment Costs to be reimbursed in 15 years
including three years grace period, starting year 5.
..............................................................................



C. - Fam Model 2   Irrigation Rehabilitation (I ha)
financial Rate of Return
............. ....................... .,,,,..............  ,,,, ,..........................................................  ..................... :....................................................    ...........
1       2       3        4       S        6       7        8       9       10      11      12  13-30
A. Without project situation
........ ............. .. .
Gross value of production                        239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3   239.3  239.3   239.3  239.3
Productoln costs                                  14.0    69.0   181.0   291.0   407.0   548.0   738.0  1060.0  1316.0  1437.0  1SSS.0  1569.0  1587.0
Mechanization                                     92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7    92.7   92.7    92.7   92.7
EmJtC                                             29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4   29.4    29.4    29.4
Waeour                                            31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9    31.9
Sub-totat                                        154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0   154.0
laltnce without project situation                 85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3    85.3   85.3    85.3   85.3
B. With project situation
..........................
investoment cots /a                               36.8
Production costs
................w
Mechaniation                                      69.5   35.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8    44.8   44.8    44.8   44.8
22.1    62.6    78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2    78.2   78.2    78.2    78.2
Labour                                            23.9    57.2    71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5    71.5   71.5    71.5    71.5
water charges /b                                      .       -       .        .                                 .       .
Sub-total                                        115.5   155.6   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5  194.5   194.5  194.5
Total costs                                      152.3   155.6   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5   194.5
Gross value of production /c                     179.5   251.0   334.7   376.6   418.4   418.4   418.4   418.4   418.4   418.4  418.4   418.4  418.4
Balance vith project situation                    27.2    95.4   140.2   152.1   223.9   223.9   223.9   223.9   223.9  223.9  223.9   223.9  223.9
C. Incremental
Incremental costs                                 -1.7      1.6    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5   40.5    40.5    40.5
Incremental gross benefits                       -59.8    11.7    95.4   137.3   179.1   179.1   119.1   179.1   179.1   179.1   179.1   179.1   179.1
Incremental net benefits                         -58.1    10.1    54.9    96.8   138.6   138.6   138.6   138.6   138.6  138.6  138.6   138.6  138.6
=.==   ====*=======   ===  ========   ===   ========    ====  X-====   *======                                                        P  F
......                 . ..... 2.... ..... ....                                                -.. --= =* .          =Q 
Source: DRAltt OHEA wid Mission estimates.                                                .D
__________---.---------- .--- O x--D------
~0
/a  20X of rehabilitation costs provided    by the farmers.
lb No vater charges because farmersparticipated at the rehabilitation.
/c Assusing that in year 1 only75X of the larI is cultivated
due to the rehabilitation of the Irrigation scheme.
Net Present Value at OCC 11X = 834.8
Internal Pate of Ret Jrn = 89.1I



D. - Farm MQdel 3 - Douro Zoes (1 ha) -
Financial Rate of Return
1      2       3       4       5      6       7       8       9      10     11      12  13-21  22-30
._. _.....___. ... ...  __.... ..... . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Without project situation /a
Gross value of proauction                      10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Production costs                                  -              -       -                                                                 -          -
galance without project situation              10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
S. With project situation
Infestment costs                              23.0  232.0  1481.0  1436.0  934.0  1029.0  792.0  719.0  247.0  145.0   32.0   16.0
mechanization                                1050.0    7.5   25.0   51.5   51.5          -      -               -                  -   -
Inuts 552.5  296.5   37.0   49.5   49.5                                                 -       -       -      -       -       -
Labour                                       127.5  171.0  133.0  169.0  169.0          -       *               -      -       -       -
Sub-total                                   1230.0  475.0  195.0  270.0  270.0          -       -       -
Production costs                               14.0   69.0  181.0  291.0  407.0  548.0  738.0  1060.0  1316.0  1437.0  1555.0  1569.0  1587.0  1587.0
mechanization                                     -      -       -       -       -   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5   51.5
Inputs                                                                               49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5
Labour                                           -       -       -       -       -  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0  169.0
sub-totat                                         -      -       -       -       -  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0
Total costs                                  1230.0  475.0  195.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0
Gross value of production                         -      -            60.0  168.0  879.5  893.5  907.5  907.5  907.5  907.5  907.5  907.5  872.5
Balance with project situation              -1230.0  -475.0  -195.0  -210.0  -102.0  609.5  623.5  637.5  637.5  637.5  63?.5  637.5  637.5  602.5
C. Incremental
incremental costs                           1230.0  475.0   195.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0  270.0
Incremental gross benefits                   -10.0  -10.0  -10.0   50.0  158.0  869.5  883.5  897.5  897.5  897.5  897.5  897.5  897.5  862.5
Incremental net benefits                   -1240.0  -485.0  -205.0  -220.0  -112.0  599.5  613.5  627.5  627.5  627.5  627.5  627.5  627.5  592.5
Source: DRATM, CEVD and Mission estimates.                                                              
kn
____.........___._:.................._..___...__.....
/a  Agsuming ast of newvinwards have been                                                                                                                            0
established on HORtORIOS left fallow.
Met Present Value at OCC 11i  i1220.8
Internal Rate of Return * 16.5X
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return * 15.6X



- 39 -                                      Table  9
Page 6 of 9
E. - Farm Model 4 - Vales Sub-montanes (12 ha) -
Financial Rate of Return
1       2       3    4-30
A. Without project situation
Gross value of production                      2563.7  2563.7  2563.7  2563.7
Production costs
Mechanization                                   342.3   342.3   342.3   342.3
Inputs                                          797.0   797.0   797.0   797.0
Labour                                          336.9   336.9   336.9   336.9
Sub-totaL                                      1476.2  1476.2  1476.2  1476.2
Total costs                                    3453.0  1100.0  1150.0  1154.5
B. With project situation
Investment costs /a                            2403.0
Production costs
Mechanization                                   251.0   263.0   274.0   275.7
Inputs                                          526.0   551.0   577. 0   578.9
Labur                                           273.0   286.0   299.0   299.9
Water charges /b                                     -
Sub-total  /c                                  1050.0  1100.0  1150.0  1154.5
.  .. . . . . . . ...   ....   .
Total costs                                    3453.0  1100.0  1150.0  1154.5
Gross value of production                      2050.0  2300.0  2450.0  2506.5
Salance with project situation                 -1403.0  1200.0  1300.0  1352.0
C. Incremental
Incremental costs                              1976.8  -376.2  -326.2  -321.7
Incremental benefits                           -513.7  -263.7  -113.7   -57.2
Incremental net benefits                      -2490.5   112.5   212.5   264.5
Source: DRATM, DHEA and Mission estimates.
.. .. ..... .... ... .... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
/a Including 4 cows, 68 m2 of stable,2 ha of temporary pasture
and 2.4 ha of Irrigation Rehabilitation.
/b No water charges because farmers participated
at the rehabilitation.
/C Gross vaLue of production is slightly lower
in the with project situation than in the without project situation
because the new cropping pattern increases drastically the fodder
production in spite of a fodder unit price which is Low.
Indeed due to low costs of production, the fodder profitability is better
than the cereal one.
. ......... .................. ...................................................................... ... ..... ..
Net Present Value at OCC 11X - -343.9
Internal Rate of Return a 9.1X
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return * 18.9X



40-                                            Table 9
Page 7 of 9
F. - Farm Model 5 - Terra Quente (100 ha) -
Financial Rate of Return
... .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. . _. ._.. ..   . ........   ....
1       2        3        4    5-30
A. Without project situation
Gross value of production                   1330.3  1330.3  1330.3  1330.3  1330.3
Production costs
Mechanization                                350.2   350.2   350.2   350.2   350.2
Inputs                                       331.8   331.8   331.8   331.8   331.8
Labour                                       255.0   255.0   255.0   255.0   255.0
Sub-total                                    937.0   937.0   937.0   937.0   937.0
Balance without project situation            393.3   393.3   393.3   393.3   393.3
B. With project situation
Investment costs /a                         9225.0
Product ion costs
Mechanization                                350.0   470.0   490.0   510.1   510.1
Inputs                                       630.0   860.0   910.0   939.0   939.0
Labour                                       270.0   370.0   400.0   408.9   408.9
Sub-total                                   1250.0  1700.0  1800.0  1858.0  1858.0
.. .....  ........   .  .._.......   .......    .............
Total costs                                10475.0  1700.0  1800.0  1858.0  1858.0
Gross value of production                   1500.0  2000.0  2300.0  2500.0  2635.8
BaLance with project situation             -8975.0   300.0   500.0   642.0   777.8
C. IncrementaL
Incremental costs                           9538.0   763.0   863.0   921.0   921.0
IncrementaL benefits                         169.7   669.7   969.7  1169.7  1305.5
Incremental net benefits                   -9368.3   -93.3   106.7   248.7   384.5
Source: DRATM and Mission estimates.
................... ....__...................................... ................
/a  Including 350 mZ. of pen. 20000 m. of fencing,the
establishment of 50 ha of temporary pasture and
the purchase of 170 ewes and 7 rams.
Net Present Value at OCC 11% * -6,123.9
Internal Rate of Return a 0.6%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return * 6.3X



- 41 -                             Table 9
Page 8 of 9
G. Phasing of Farm Models
Farm Modell| Unit| 1    2    3                4  |  S     6     7    8 | Total
1983 1984  1985  19861 1987  19881 19891 19901
2. Irrigation                Ha   162  456  387  443   833   896 1,300 1,160  5,637
Rehabilitation21
3. Douro Zones3/             Ha      -    -  606  758   431   583   70   87  2,535
4. Vales Sub-Montanesel      No           8   49   32       2    2      -    -    93
5. Terra Quente5             No      -    -    7    6             1    3      -    17
1/ Farm model 1 'New irrigation' has been designed to estimate the financial and economic viability of
a pilot scheme and therefore has not been included in the economic analysis of the project.
2/ Farm model 2 'Irrigation Rehabilitation' whose area is 1 ha has been designed to take into account
benefits and costs resulting from the largest part of the area rehabilitated (5,637 ha out of 5,861 ha).
The balance (224 ha) is already accounted for in the Farm model 4 - "Vales Sub-Montanes".
31  Farm model 3 'Douro Zones" has an area of 1 ha.
4/  Farm model 4 "Vales Sub-Montanes" has a total area of 12 ha out of which 2.4 ha of irrigation i.e. twice
the area of the model designed in the SAR.
5/  Farm model 5 "Terra Quente" has a total area of 100 ha i.e. more than three times the area of the
model designed in the SAR (30 ha).



M. Cash-flow  for Ec kmic  Rate  01 Retrn/in  I9I content Million  Ec.
... ........................................................... ................................................................................................. .. ............................... ..................................... ............ ...... ...................
2963       1964      21965         986       1967       1966        1969       199         1991       1992         993       2994       299S       199         2997       2996       t99        2000       2001        2002    2003 -2012
............................................ ............................................................................. ..... ...... .................... . ............... ..................... ... .. .... .... .... .......... -.......  ............ .... ......  ......
Vith project situation
cross value at prodictimn                                     20        131        343         370        827       1142       1636       2576        3448       406         43551      4676       4747      4*no         4751       473        470         466        4 18       4S66              662
Investmnt Costs                                              23         232       1461       1436        934        1029        792         719        247         243         32          18
Production  Costs                                             14         69        218         291        407        548        738        1060       1316       1437        1555       1569       1567        1567       1587       1587        258?       1587       1587       1587             1587
iecre ntat Operating Costs                                     -    -                 -          -                                                     200         100        100         100        200        200        2      00  2      00   006                   200         100             100
~~~~~....... ....... .. ... . ... .... . . . .......  ....... :..... .... . ... .. . .. ...... ........ .......   ....... ....... ........ ....... ........ ....... ........ ....... ..... ........... ...
Total ecm   ic  costs                                         37        302       1662       In7?        2341.            IS77  1530       179        2663       26u2        167        1687       1687        2667       2687       1687       1607        2687       2687       1607             2667
met Benefits                                                   9      -170      -2319       -2157       -524        -435         106        799       1785       2336        2871       2989       3060       3063        36         3043       3016       3002        2982       2978             2972
Vlthout project situation
... .. .......... .......
eg,ftas                                                       29         so        194        294        396         507        657         7          790        790         790        790        790         790        790        790        790        790         790        790              790      i
Incrsntat
..... .....
.Kr._ntat ne  b.wfits                                        2O    -2.8 -151. -.4.I -920    .92    -5.9                                       9    9s    1546    2001   21W    2270    22n    227.   225    2226   2211    219. 2.m                                                                21.5
Suet: DtEATH wrd Nissiln estimtes.
............. .................. ................. .
Internal Rates of Return of Met Streams
e               ............. was .......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
UBIEC                                      17.931



- 43 -                        Appendix
Page 1 of 2
Appendix
Agricultural Research
List of the 17 Reports Prepared by UTAD
Projecto No. 1 -  Estudos de Adaptacao de Algumas Cultivares de Trigo, Centeio e
Triticale e a Obtencao de Novas Variedades Melhoradas
(Responsavel: Prof. Henrique de Pinho Guedes Pinto) Universidade
de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Vila Real, Faneiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 2 -  Melhoramento de Castas da Regiao do Douro - Estudos Sobre a Sua
Fertilidade e Produtividade (Responsavel: Prof Nuno Pizarro de
Campos Magalhaes) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro,
Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 3 -  Producao e utilizacao de forragens em  Prodes de Regadio e
Lameiros. Prof. A.M. Pereira.
Projecto No. 4 -  Producao de Forragens e Pastagens nas Areas de Sequeiro
Mediterranico de Tras-os-Montes (Responsavel: Prof Nuno Manuel
Vasconcelos Moreira) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto
Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 5 -  Nematodos da Batateira - Macrozonagem do Nematodo Dourado da
Batateira e Estudo de Tecnicas de Controlo (Responsavel: Eng.
Fernando Franco Martins) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto
Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 6 - Fertilizacao em Triticale, Centeio e Trigo. Prof. C. Mendes.
Projecto No. 7 -  Definicao de um Modelo Agricola para Implementar a Producao de
Leite nas Terras Altas de Tras-os-Montes (Responsavel: Prof. Carlos
Alberto Sequeira) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro,
Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 8 -  Melhoramento da Producao Ovina (Responsavel: Eng. Jorge Teixeira
de Azevedo) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Vila
Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 9 -  Desenvolvimento de Recomendacoes Alimentares para Ruminantes
(Responsavel: Pro. Arnaldo Dias da Silva) Universidade de Tras-os-
Montes e Alto Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 10 - Unidade de Avaliacao. Prof. J. Portela.



Appendix
- 44 -                         Page 2 of 2
Projecto No. 11 - A Produtividade e a Rentabilidade dos Bovinos Locais (Responsavel:
Eng. Virgilio Cardos Alves) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto
Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 12 - Cartografia de Solos do Nordeste de Portugal (1/100.000).
Projecto No. 13 - Metodos de Rega
Sub-projecto 13.1 - Avaliacao e Melhoramento dos Metodos
Tradicionais de Rega (Responsavel: Prof. Dr. Zozimo de Castro
Rego).
Sub-projecto 13.2 - Determinacao do Balanco Hidrico das Cultura
(Responsavel: Prof Dr. Luis Santos Pereira).
Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de
1990.
Projecto No. 14 - Estudo do Impacto Economico da componente de Investigacao
Agricola Aplicada do PDRITM (Responsavel: Prof. Antonio
Cipriano Pinheiro) Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro,
Vila Real, Janeiro de 1990.
Projecto No. 15 - Mecanizacao das Vinhas de Encosta na Regiao Demarcada do
Douro (Responsavel: Prof. Fernando Bianchi de Aguiar)
Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Vila Real, Janeiro de
1990.
Projecto No. 16 - Projecto altemativo para a armazenagem do batata.
Projecto No. 17 - Avaliacao e melhoramento dos metodos de irrigacao.



