Document of                                Vt
The World Bank                s.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report'No. 3489-Po
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 11, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peforymance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1982)
Currency Unit                   Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Esc. 70.00                      US $1.00
Esc.  1.00                      US  0.014
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)        =          2.47  acres
1 kilometre (km)                 0.62  miles
1 metre (m)           =          3.28  feet
1 cubic metre (m3)   =          35.21  cubic feet
I metric ton (m ton) =           0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
CCAM           Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (Agricultural Credit Cooperative)
CCRN           Comissao de Coordenacao da Regiao do Norte
CGD            Caixa Geral de Depositos
CP            Cooperative Program, World Bank/FAO
DGHEA          Direcgao Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola
(General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DGRAH          Direccao Geral Recursos e Aproveitamentos ilidraulicos
(General Directorate of Water Resources and Utilization)
DGSB           Direcgao Geral de Saneamento Basico
(General Directorate of Basic Sanitation)
DRTM          Direccao Regional de Tras-os-Montes
EEC           European Economic Community
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FENACAM        Federacgao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo
GAT            Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Office of Technical Support)
ICIM           Instituto do Credito para Investimentos Municipaes (Credit
Institute for Municipal Investments)
IFADAP         Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao'Desenvolvimento da
Agricultura e Pescas (Agriculture and Fisheries Development Fund)
INIA          Instituto Nacional das Investigacoes Agricolas
(National Agricultural, Research Organization)
MACP           Ministerio da Agricultura, Comercio e Pescas
(Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries)
PEU            Project Evaluation Unit
PAU            Project Administration Unit
PBI            Participating Banking Institution
PNAEBA         Plan National D'Alphab4tisation et D'Education de Base des Adultes
USAID         U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF PORTUGAL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PORTUGAL                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.          AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........................................
- Agricultural Production and Trade .........................
- Agricultural Policies, Planning and Development Strategy..l
- Regional Differences and Developmient Strategies ...... .....2
- Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector ................... 2
II.           THE PROJECT AREA AND REGION ..................................4
- General Features                       ..    4
-Climate and Farming Zones                   ...  4
- W7ater Resources      ...............................          5
- Land Resources and Land Use                   .       .     6
-Land Tenure and Distribution                  ...  6
- Population, Occupations, and Living Standards         . .  6
- Agricultural Production                    ..                   7
- Agricultural Research ..................................... 9
- Agricultural Extension .................................... 9
- Animal Production and Veterinary Services.          .          9
- Cooperatives              ..10
- Inputs....................................................   10
-Agricultural Credit                     . . . 11
- Infrastructure              . . .13
- Local Government              . . .13
III.           THE: PROJECT... .                            . ........... 15
-E'roject Origin and Concept .15
- P'roject Objectives .15
- Project Description .15
- Irrigation Development .17
- Rainfed Agriculture .17
-On-Farm Investments .........................                 18
- Vineyard Establishment ............................ 18
- Agricultural Services ....                                   .18
-Rural Roads and Streets .........................            1-19
- Water Supply and Sanitation .19
- Education and Health .19
- Research and Studies .20
-Irrigation Trials and Studies ..........................,.20
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission
which visited Portugal in November 1980, comprising Messrs.G.Donovan,
P.Economides, and F.Heidhues (Bank), and D.Crespo, J.Kirch, N.Monteith, and
J.Pilgrim (Consultants); and on a follow-up mission which visited Portugal in
March 1982, comprising of Messrs. F. Heidhues and M. Pease (Bank).
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformanceof
theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



-Technical Assistance and Training ........................ 21
-Status of Engineering ..........................              22
- Implementation Schedule ..........................           22
- Cost Estimates ..........................                    23
- Financing ..........................                     .25
- Procurement ..........................                       25
- Disbursement .............                                  26
- Accounts and Audit ...................................     27
- Environmental Effect               ............ 28
- The Situation and Role of Women .28
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                                   29
-Implementing Agencies   .                .29
- Project Administration Unit   .            .29
- National Coordination       ........................ 30
-Council of Municipalities ............................     30
-Operation and Maintenance ................................ 31
-Credit for Infrastructure ................................ 31
- Credit for Agriculture and Cooperatives           .. 31
- Agricultural Credit Lending Terms and Procedures ......... 32
-Agricultural Research                    ..                      34
-Agricultural Extension                    ..                     35
- Animal Health          ....................... 35
- Milk Production .......................                     36
- Milk Collection ....................... 36
- Animal Breeding          ....................... 37
- Supply of Animals         ....................... 37
- Cooperatives ..                                             37
- Monitoring, Evaluation, Studies and Reporting .38
V.     FARM M4ODELS, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY .40
- Farm Incomes With and Without the Project .40
- Cost Recovery .40
- Non-Agricultural Component.. 40
VI.     PRODUCTION, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .42
- Crops ......................                                42
- Livestock Production ......................                 43
-Marketing of Project Output .............................. 43
- Benefits of Infrastructure ............................... 44
- Beneficiaries ............................................ 45
- Economic Rate of Return .................................. 45
- Project Risks..................................48
VII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................... 49



ANNEX 1            TABLES AND GRAPHICS
Table  1           - Area and Population of Prc,ject Region ........... 50
Table  2           - Cultivated and Irrigated Areas .................. 51
Table 3            - Cost Estimates                    ...                   52
Table  4           - Equipment List................... .     ..........    53
Table  5           - Technical Assistance and Studies ................ 54
Table  6           - Schedule of Disbursements ....................... 55
Table  7           - Phasing of Incremental Project Production ....... 56
Table  8           - Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs for
Farm Models                   ...  57
Table  9           - Economic Benefit and Cost Streams            . .    58
Table 10           - Farm Cash Flow Projections  (Model 1) ........... 59
Table 11           -   "   "    "          "         (Model 2) ........... 60
Table 12           -  "   "       of                 (Model 3) ........... 61
Table 13           -   "   "    "it                  (Model 4) ........... 62
Table 14           - "   "        to                 (Model 5) ........... 63
-Graphic 23914    -Implementation Schedule ......................... 64
Graphic 23944    -Project Organization Chart                 ... 65
ANNEX 2            Related Documents Available in the Project File...66
A. Documents Related to Project Background ......... 66
B. Documents Related to Project Proposals ......... 67
C. Detailed Tables                      .. 67
Graphic 15736    -Map of the Project Area.........................






PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Prodcuction and Trade
1.01     Portugal's agricultural sector is producing very little more today
than it produced thirty years ago. Agriculture's share of the GDP, which was
17% in 1965 and around 14% in 1970, had sunk to about 10% by 1978, following
five years in which agricultural value-added declined while national GDP
growth was 3.2% p.a. in real terms. During the period 1974-79, employment in
agriculture also declined at 1.8% p.a., from 30% of the total labor force in
1970 to less than 25% in 1979.   Approximately 15% of Portugal's exports come
from the agricultural sector, the main commoditie!s by value being wines,
tomato paste, cork, nuts and fruits, and olive oil. The agricultural trade
balance is substantially negative, however, with imports more than three times
as great as exports, and the agricultural trade deficit is about one third of
the total trade deficit. Agricultural imports account for about 20% of all
imports, the main commodities being cereals, raw cotton, vegetable oils and
oilseeds, and sugar. Imports of livestock products significantly outweigh
exports from this subsector, and the imbalance is increased when the large
imports of animaL feeds are added to the equation.
Agricultural Policies, Planning, and Development Strategy
1.02     Price controls or guarantees, and subsidies, affect most major
agricultural commodities in Portugal, and they have been the principal
elements of agricultural policy, with administration taking place via a
complex set of boards and institutes. For example, wheat has a guaranteed
price to producers, with compulsory delivery, while for maize, beef, milk, and
wines guaranteed prices provide a floor to the market. For wheat, maize, and
beef, prices received by farmers have been generally above international
levels but below targets within the EEC. Milk prices have been slightly below
or on a par with EEC target levels. The Government occasionally intervenes in
the potato market: to support producer prices in bad years, while fixed prices
apply for seed potatoes. The most striking agricultural input subsidies have
been for fertilizers and for livestock concentrate feeds. The latter have had
the effect of shifting livestock production technology from lower cost pasture
to high cost imported feedgrains sold at subsidized prices to the feed
industry. The Government is currently discussing the possibility of
eliminating these feed subsidies and liberalizing cereal trading generally.
1.03     Major goals for agriculture are foreign exchange savings from
efficient import substitution, and getting the sector in shape for Portugal's
proposed entry tc, the EEC in the middle 1980s. In the latter context,
increasing farm prices which would accompany membership would move the terms-
of trade in favor of agriculture and should stimulate a net flow of
investments into the sector. EEC entry should have favorable implications for



-2
Portuguese production of meat, fruits, vegetables, and olive oil. There would
be a stimulus to pasture-based livestock production instead of the current
systems which are biased towards concentrate feeding by the subsidies on
cereals for tlhe feedmix industry. It is projected that demand for dairy
products in Portugal may expand from around 800,000 tons of milk equivalent in
1980 to 1,200,000 tons by 1990, with domestic production accounting for most
of the increase. The Government has adopted an explicit goal of' increasing
production to at least one million tons over the decade, with greater emphasis
on productionL from pasture, particularly in regions of the count:ry where milk
consamption is already lower than average.
gonal Differences and Development Strategies
1.04     There are marked regional variations within Portugal in terms of
economic development and living standards. In 1970, for example, the average
income per capita for the whole country was twice that for the poorest region
(Tras-os-Montes), while income per capita in the richest region was four times
as great as in the poorest. In general, the poorest regions are those where
agriculture not only looms largest, but has also grown more slowly. In 1970,
while the country as a whole had about 30% of its economically active
population engaged in agriculture, the comparable proportion for the
Tras--os-Montes region was around 70%. There has been a substantial migratory
flow of people within Portugal from the poorer regions (which tend to be in
the interior) to the growing and wealthier ones (which tend to be on the
coast). The poorer regions tend to be characterized by smaller farms, older
farmers, higher levels of illiteracy, lower levels of mechanization of
agriculture, and in some cases, serious geographic isolation. While a
continued flow of people out of agriculture - and, therefore, out of
agriculture-dominated regions - is likely to continue as Portugal is
increasingly transformed into an industrial economy, there is considerable
scope for active development and modernization of agriculture wlhich would
reduce the reliance upon population attrition as the sole means of raising
incomes in the poorer rural areas. An essential part of this strategy would
be iraprovement in the social infrastructure of the poorer region.s
simultaneousLy with stimulation of agricultural growth.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.05     To date the Bank has only two operations in the agricuLtural sector,
the Agriculttural and Fisheries Credit Project (Ln.1603-PO) and the Forestry
Project (Ln.'853-PO).  The latter became effective in March 1981 and is
progressing satisfactorily. It deals with a particular subsector which is not
included in the present project. The Credit Project became effective only
after very long delays, due mainly to lengthy and cumbersome procedures for
appointing consultants. The problems were exacerbated by frequent changes of
Government, an area where a measure of greater stability has now been
achieved. Major lessons to be learned from early experience on this project
concern agricultural credit - its organization, terms and conditions - and the
importance of close liaison in project implementation between the regional
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries (MACP) and
the project unit.  These lessons have been drawn upon in (a) formulating the
credit component which



-3-
adds direct lending to farmers by IFADAP to the traditional lending channel
through commercial banks and provides for constant level interest rates, (b)
designing the arrangements for consultants, and (c) organizing the proposed
project. Furthermore, the decentralization of IFADAP decision making on loan
award to regional level, though delayed, proved important in promoting the use
of credit by farmers. However, the graduated system of interest calculation
under the Agricultural and Fisheries Project, whereby farmers pay at an
increasing rate over the term of the loan, encourages the use oL short-term
roll-over funding for medium-term development objectives.  This situation was
accentuated by short-term interest rates being lower than medium-term.. The
proposed project: would require a constant level of interest rate with
short-and medium-term rates being on a par. To encourage participating banks
to lend under the project, the Government has recently excempted funds
refinanced under World Bank financed projects from current credit ceiling
limitations.



-4-
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND REGION
General Features
2.01     As the name "Tras-os-Montes" or ("behind the mountains") implies, the
region has been, historically isolated from other parts of Portugal. This
name refers in particular to the ranges of Marao and Barroso which make up the
western boundary of the region, and to a lesser extent to the steep hills
which rise south of the valley of the Douro river. For the project the
Tras-os-Montes region (Map 15736) is defined as consisting of 35 concelhos
(Annex 1, Table 1) having a total geographical area of about 12,500 km2.
The region has a very broken topography, with six main rivers running
north-east to south-west which have cut deep valleys into the landscape, and
discharge into the Douro, which in turn flows west through the region. There
are also extensive plains, plateaus, and broad valleys. Elevations range from
300 m above sea level at the south western corner where the Douro leaves the
region, to just over 1,500 m in the north western mountains. Most of the
region is formed from granite and schists, covered by alluvium in the plains,
but fonning rather thin soils laced with schist on slopes of the Douro valley.
Climate and Farming Zones
2.02     The Tras-os-Montes region has three broad climatic zones: Atlantic,
Continental, and Mediterranean. The west and north of the region, which make
up the Atlantic zone, experience relatively high winter rainfall and summer
humidity. In the east, particularly on the Miranda plateau, Continental
influences produce cold winters (when a high proportion of annual rainfall is
received) and dry, hot summers. The southern part of the region experiences a
Mediterranean type of climate, with mild winters, moderate rainfall and dry,
hot summers. In almost all parts of the region, more than 85% of the rainfall
occurs during the period October to May. (Climatic details are given in the
Project File). Classifying by both climate and topography, it is possible to
divide the region into the following major farming zones:
(a)  Mountain Areas:  characterized by a basic rye/seed potatoes rotation
but also having permanent pasture lands known as "lameiros", and, on
the heights, communal "baldios" lands which are either forested or
used for grazing. Altitudes are 800 to 1,200 m, and rainfall 700 to
1,500 mm. Traditional irrigation schemes extend the growing period
by diverting seasonally flowing streams. Farms average a little more
than 5 ha in size.
(b)  High Altitude Valleys:  mainly rye and commercial potatoes, with a
cereals/fallow rotation in stony lands and 20% of the cultivated area
irrigated (sown to maize, fruit trees, and some veegetables). This
zone also includes some areas planted to olive trees and vineyards.
Altitudes are about 400 to 1,000 m, with rainfall 500 to 1,000 mm.
Farms are generally a little smaller than in the mountains.



-5-
(c)  Miranda Plateau (Planalto Mirandes):  dominated by a cerea'Ls/fallow
rotation using mainly wheat, with rye on more shallow soils. The
fallow is more extensive here than in other regions, taking up at
least 35% of cultivated areas. There are significant areas of low
quality pasture. Trees run out on the plateau, which is at an
altitude of 650 to 800 m with a rainfall of 500 to 700 mm. Farms are
typically 10 to 20 ha in size in this region, averaging around 13 ha.
(d) Hot Climate Area (Terra Quente): where field crops are grown, the
typical rotation is again cereals (wheat or rye) followed by fallow,
but there is much more irrigation and considerably greater areas are
in fruit trees. This is a particularly important area for olives,
which are planted extensively. The zone includes a basin around
Mirandela where altitudes are 300 to 500 m, with surrounding areas
500 to 700 m. Rainfall is 500 to 800 mm, and the average farm size
around 10 ha.
(e) Valleys of the Douro River and its Tributaries: dominated by
vineyards, this is the main Port wine region of Portugal. There are
also extensive plantations of olives and mixed orchards.  I'he valleys
are very broken and variable in their topography, and rainfall ranges
from 400 to 600 mm at the south eastern end, to over 800 mmn in the
west. The vineyards are typically very small, with more than three
quarters of the farms less than 1 ha in size.
Water Resources
2.03     The Douro and its tributaries, the Sabor, Ina, Corgo, and Tamega, are
the major rivers in the area. All of them originate in Spain and have a
permanent flow of water. In addition, there is a large number of small
streams all over the area. In the higher rainfall zones (west and part of the
north) most of the streams continue to have water during the summer although
with reduced discharges. In the more arid zones (east and south) the streams
usually dry up at the end of the spring. An inventory carried out by the
Regional Directorate of Agriculture (DRTM) in collaboration with DGHEA in 16
of the 35 concelhos of the region (covering about 7,250 km2 or 58% of the
total project area) showed that there are about 1,500 streams which are used
for irrigation, of which about 600 have a permanent flow. Natural springs,
which are uncommon, small, and have a negligible flow during summer, are used
mainly for domestic water supply. The predominant geological formations,
namely granite and schist, do not offer favorable conditions for grotndwater
supply. However, in some locations, in particular in alluvial formations,
there are indications of significant groundwater supplies and it appears
probable that such sources of water could be found in many areas if suitable
investigations were carried out. The inventory carried out by DRTM/DGHEA
showed that there are about 25,000 shallow wells in the 16 concelhos surveyed,
of which only 2,500 yield a sufficient amount of water, irrigating, in total,
about 3,760 ha. The rest of the wells are used only for drinking water.
There is no inventory for deep wells but it is believed that the existing
number does not exceed 50, with discharges usually below 10 l/s.



-6-
Land Resources and Land Use
2.04     Soils in the mountainous areas are stony Lithosols derived from
moderately weathered schist; they are acid and have relatively high organic
matter content. On the plateau areas there are acid Brown Forest soils, light
to medium textured and of rather low fertility. In the valleys, soils have
been formed on alluvium and are the most fertile in the region. Classified as
Brown Mediterranean soils, they have relatively good water holding capacity.
Most of the region's soils are deficient in calcium and phosphorus, but potash
responses are limited.
2.05     Of the region's 1.3 million ha (12,766 km2) some 550,000 ha are
cultivated. There are about 95,000 ha of forests and 200,000 ha of "baldios"
(communal lands) used mostly for extensive grazing. Some 45% of the
cultivated land is occupied by field crops (mainly rye, wheat, and potatoes),
24% by orchards (mostly vineyards, mixed fruits and nuts, and olives), 22% by
fallows, and the remaining 9% by permanent pastures. Possibly 60,000 ha have
some form of irrigation, and about three quarters of this area is in
"lameiros", permanent pastures which are kept saturated during the winter
months in order to prevent ground-level temperatures from falling as much as
they normally would, thus improving pasture growth and yields.
Land Tenure and Distribution
2.06     For the region as a whole, the average farm size is 6.5 ha, but there
is considerable variation, with the largest farms being in the Planalto
Mirandes zone (average 13 ha) and the smallest in the vineyard zone of the
Douro valley, where a high proportion of the farms are 1 ha or less in size.
Although more than two thirds of the properties are owner-operated (more than
three quarters in the Douro zone), farms tend to be highly fragmented e.g. a
typical 4 ha farm in the Mountain zone might have 13 parcels, while in the
Terra Quente zone a typical 5 ha farm could be divided into seven parcels.
This fragmentation is an important constraint, particularly where livestock
grazing management is concerned.
Population, Occupations, and Living Standards
2.07     The latest estimate (1978) for the population of the region is
624,000 (Annex 1, Table 1), or 6.5% of the total population of continental
Portugal. As a result of the substantial outmigration from the region, the
population fell from about 732,000 in 1960 to 585,000 in 1970 before rising
again to the present level, which is still 15% below that of 20 years
previously. The reverse flow of migrants during the 1970s has been mainly to
the towns, which have expanded rapidly, with migrants returning from other
European countries, as well as from the ex-Portuguese colonies during this
period.  In spite of this growth of the towns, only 10% of the population
lives in urban areas, the lowest proportion of any region in Portugal.  More
than 70% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture, the highest in the
nation.  As a result of the emigration, farms have been left in the hands of
parents, and the average age of farm managers is, therefore, high. Almost one
half of the farm population is illiterate.



-7-
2.08     By almost any standard, levels of living in the region are very
poor. Compared with Portugal as a whole, the per capita income is about 35%
of the national level (US $700 to $900 compared with a GNP per capita of US
$2,350 in 1980). Consumption of water and electricity per head is less than
one third of the national level, numbers of radios per 1,000 inhabitants a
little over half the national level, automobiles per 100 inhabitants one
quarter to one third. Most of the population has inadequate or non-existent
sanitation, and rudimentary water supply systems. Infant mortality is almost
twice the national average and maternal death rates much higher than average.
Enteric and respiratory diseases occur at more than twice the nationaL rate,
and are major causes of infant mortality. Schooling for most children
continues to be in the one-or two-room village school where four years of
basic primary education are provided. Public transportation is inadequate,
and many existing rural roads are impassable for periods during winter.
Better social facilities are concentrated in the larger towns so that there
has been a widening disparity in standards of living during the 1970s, with a
large proportion of poor farming communities maintaining a substantiaLly
traditional, semi-subsistence peasant economy with few modern facilities.
Agricultural Production
2.09     Crops.  The range of crop yields in the region is large, as a result
of the widely varying micro climatic effects, as well as individual farm
management practices. Sketchy statistical data for 1970 to 1975 suggest that
average yields, in metric tons per hectare, for five main field crops were as
follows: potatoes 11.0, rye 0.9, wheat 1.2, maize 0.9, and barley 0.8. In
1978, production of these crops was estimated to be: potatoes 305,000 tons
(27% of Portugal's production), rye 61,000 tons (one half of national
production), wheat 26,000 tons, and maize 63,000 tons. The region also
produced about 15% of Portugal's olive oil, and L5 to 20% of the country's
wine (including all of its Port wine). An estimated 127 million litres of
wine were produced in the region in 1978, including some 46 million litres of
Port wine.
2.10     About 50% of the area in cereals is subject to considerable risk of
erosion, and soils are too shallow to assure satisfactory cereal yields. Much
of this area needs to be converted into productive permanent sown past:ures in
order to prevent soil erosion and improve fertility. In remaining cereal
areas, the traditional fallow, which takes up haLf of the rotation, should be
largely replaced with legume-based temporary pastures and/or forage ct'ops
which would also improve the soil and allow considerable expansion of the
livestock enterprise. In the potato areas, in spite of heavy dressings with
farm yard manure and mineral fertilizers, yields are increasingly being
endangered by a build-up of nematode infestations in the soil, which can be
controlled only by extending the rotation from two years to four years, to
reduce the frequency with which potatoes are grown on the same piece of land.
There is also a aeed to improve the "lameiros" (traditional permanent
pastures) by increasing applications of fertilizers and lime, installing
drainage systems in some places, and improving weed control and species
balance through better management (grazing and harvesting). Wherever possible



-8-
in the region, irrigation should be extended, since the productivity of
rainfed agriculture is limited by the seasonality of precipitation. In the
Douro zone, one of the major problems facing the wine industry is a general
increase in the proportion of vines which are aging and needing replacement
before yields decline. In addition, there are substantial areas which are
undeveloped and could add to production, including the famous "mortorios"
where well developed terraces, formerly growing vines which were killed by
phylloxera disease in the first part of this century, have been left to be
covered with natural vegetation. Modern methods of vine husbandry, including
mechanization of cultivation, need to be introduced along with establishment
of new or replacement vineyards.
2.11     Livestock.  Livestock play a very important role in agriculture in
the region, contributing to farm income as well as providing a source of farm
work power. The livestock population has not changed significantly in the
past twenty years, but meat and milk production have increased somewhat during
that period. It is estimated that there are about 90,000 cattle in the
region, 250,000 sheep, 145,000 pigs, and 90,000 goats. The milk production
potential of local breeds (Mirandesa and others) is low and their dual-purpose
character coupled with some draft work means that yields are generally poor.
Dairying has been increasing in the mountains and high valleys, encouraged by
favorable milk prices arising from increased demand, but so far the region
probably produces only around 12,000 tons of milk per year. In the Planalto
Mirandes zone the local Mirandesa breed is kept mainly for beef production.
Sheep, mainly in the Terra Quente and Terra Fria (Mountain) zones, are kept
for meat (lambs slaught--^4 of, three to four months of age at 20 kg
liveweight), but ewes are also milked in the spring (typical yield: 20 kg per
lactation). Sheep are run in flocks of 100 to 300, and sometimes grazed on
common lands by landless owners.
2.12     The most obvious needs in livestock production are for genetic
improvement of animals, better management of grazed pastures, and more
efficient fodder harvesting and conservation. Feed grown on farms needs to be
substituted for purchased feedgrains, particularly for fattening cattle. The
most common diseases are Brucellosis, African Swine Fever, and endo-parasites,
and improvements are needed to the provision of veterinary advice and service.
2.13     Constraints on Agriculture.  There is a shortage of good land in the
region, and population pressure historically has forced farmers to cultivate
lands which would be better in pastures. The summer drought is everywhere a
constraining factor, resulting in a lack of water even where there is
irrigation and even in the high rainfall zones (where the pat:tern of
precipitation is still highly seasonal). Other difficulties which need to be
overcome for agricultural progress to take place are the age, conservatism,
illiteracy and low technical level of farmers, and the excessive fragmentation
of farms. Many technical suggestions for improving agriculture remain to be
tested in well designed and informative field trials. The ineffectiveness-of
agricultural service institutions is further described below.



-9-.
Agricultural Research
2.14      Three organizations are undertaking research and investigation,
namely the national research institution (INIA),, the Regional Directorate of
Agriculture |DRTM), and the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro. INIA
has a small station at Braganca attending to some disease problems of
chestnuts, while the DRTM controls six stations, at Macedo de Cavaleiros
(livestock), Malhadas (artificial insemination), Valongo (sheep, cropping,
pastures), Chaves (irrigated pastures), Montalegre (potatoes, pastures), and
Pinhao (viticulture). Unfortunately, the work at these stations does not have
clear objectives, is not coordinated and, with the exception of Montalegre,
does not focus on the problems which are critical for farmers. Few records
are kept of station operations or production parameters, and the stations are
almost never used for demonstration or training purposes. INIA has become too
far divorced from applied investigations to any longer have the confidence of
regional staff.  The University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro is receiving
technical assistance from USAID and from the Norwegian and Dutch Governments.
Some promising i'nvestigations are beginning, but their expansion will be
limited by teaching commitments of staff and failure of the Ministry of
Education to define a role for the university in regional development.
Agricultural Extension
2.15     Extension services of the type under which farmers receive field
visits, do not exist. Instead, agricultural officers are located in sub
regions and farmers can visit them when requiring advice. A "training and
visit" system is being planned by the DRTM in cooperation with the Department
of Extension of the Central Government, and this is the beginning of a larger
and improved network of extension services. Pesticide and fertilizer
distributors do provide informal and often uncontrolled advice. Quimigal, the
national fertilizer producer which received a Bank loan in FY 79, provides a
soil analysis service to farmers but since there is no work on correlaLtion
with fertilizer response, the results would be of dubious value. The Casa do
Douro (the cooperative union for wine producers) has two extension off icers
for viticulture, but their duties appear to be mainly the collection of data*
for quality classification, although on occasions they assist farmers to lay
out terraces for new development.
Animal Productioni and Veterinary Services
2.16     Animal liealth.  The DRTM has 14 veterinarians, four of whom are
occupied in administration activities.  Another 14 veterinarians in private
practice in the region undertake some vaccinatiorl work on behalf of the DRTM
and at times service municipality requirements. Most DRTM veterinarians are
occupied in carrying out Brucellosis and Tuberculosis control programs which
are not as effective as desired due to insufficient personnel and to
insufficient funds for compensation to farmers for slaughtered infected
animals. The shortage of veterinarians appears related to an unwillingness to
work in this relatively isolated region, and to the fact that Government
veterinarians also practice privately to earn extra income, thereby reducing



time available for official work and competing with private practitioners.
2417     Milk Production.  DRTM veterinarians are also responsible for
approving the designs of communal milking parlors and overseeing their
operation. Existing parlors have been constructed by the Food Production
Authority in the east and by the Norwegian Aid Organization i.n the west. The
milking service, has been free to producers in the past, but user charges were
introduced recently. Veterinarians in the region consider that although cows
have to walk to parlors and waiting time is often excessive, the major
advantages are that they improve milking methods and hygiene, and allow animal
health and performance surveys to be readily carried out. Milking parlor
operators are trained by the Department of Rural Extension. At present, milk
is collected, several times a week, by Lacto coop and Agrolacto in the west,
and Cachac I/in the east, using either tankers, or trucks with cans or plastic
containers. A proposal is before Government to allow Cachao to be the only
organization to collect milk in the region, thus ensuring a reasonable input
to a 25,000 1/day UHT treatment plant proposed for Macedo de Cavaleiros, and
ensuring the use of an expanded cheese production plant (350 t) at Cachao
itself. At present, there is no treatment plant in the region, and milk is
transported to the coastal area for this purpose.
2.18     Animal Breeding.  Present artificial insemination (AI) services for
dairy production consist of 15 operators in five localities, all employed by
DRTM except one who is emFloyed by a cooperative at Montalegre.  Some semen is
supplied from the Malhadas station and some from the National station at
Amadora. With the present staff, the service can attend only to about 30% of
the cows in the Planalto zone and considerably less in the other areas, but in
addition, DRTM sells or rents bulls to villagers in the more remote areas, and
private operators may also charge for service by a bull which they may own.
There is very little supervision of AI operators, and only one veterinarian is
available for examining causes of reproduction problems.
Cooperatives
2.19     Although polyvalent cooperatives exist in almost every concelho, to
supply farm inputs, local officers estimate that only about .5% of them
function well and a great deal of training is needed for cooperative staff and
managers. The DRTM has a section designed to develop and promote cooperatives
but none of the few technicians belonging to it is qualified in this field.
Two cooperative unions exist, one in the seed potato industry and the other in
the wine -ndustry.  The unions negotiate prices and attempt to maintain
quality standards. The Cachao organization anticipates that it will be
operating as a union of cooperatives by 1981 under a new charter just drafted.
Inputs
2.20     Much of the seed, fertilizer and machinery is supplied through retail
channels in the main towns.  A wide range of machinery outlets exists,
competition is keen and repair facilities appear reasonable. Machinery
1! Cachao is a large food processing organization at present run by the DRTM.



-*11-
services are aLso available through contractors for land preparation and for
mowing and baling of fodder. The major fertilizer wholesaler and retailer is
Quimigal, the nationalized company which sells about 15,000 tons of fertilizer
per year in the region. Almost all fertilizer sold contains nitrogen in
significant quantities. Quimigal has its regional head office in Vila Real,
and two main stores outside the vineyard areas, in Mirandela and Chaves, each
of 2,500 tons capacity. Quimigal officers admit to not being able to supply
fertilizer on time due to inadequate storage and to inadequate transport
facilities into and through the region. Studies of fertilizer and lime
transport have been undertaken by USAID consultants and resulted in a lending
scheme (PROCALFER) which supports lime transport, storage and use; increased
fertilizer use, and related on farm operations. Seed potatoes are stored and
distributed by specialized cooperatives which function adequately. Pasture
and fodder seed which will be required under the project is not used to any
extent at present, and outlets will need to be developed.
Agricultural Credit
2.21     Credil: to agriculture in Portugal is provided.by commercial banks
under the supervison of IFADAP, an agency of the Bank of Portugal, which is
empowered to refinance agricultural loans made by banking institutions,
administer subsidy payments, and provide guarantees to banking institutions
where normal loan collaterals are not available. Overall control of the
banking system is exercised by the Bank of Portugal, which imposes reserve
requirements, determines credit ceilings, and establishes interest rates
payable for deposits and credits. Lending rates for commercial loans
currently range from 23% to 26% for term lendirng (over one year), and from 23%
to 24.5% for short-term loans. The basic lending rates for investments in
agriculture are the same as the general rates, except that an interest rebate,
on a declining scale, is provided for all medium-and long-term loans resulting
in effective lending rates to farmers of 13.5% in the first year after
disbursement of credits and rising gradually to 26% in the sixth and following
years. The full rate applies to the disbursement and interest capitalization
periods. Seasonal credit rates, ranging from 15.5% to 18%, are considerably
lower than short-term rates in industry and commerce. The present complex
structure of interest rates for medium-and long-term loans encourages farmers
to take up credit with inappropriately short maturities resulting often in
cash flow problems and frequent refinancing or debt rescheduling. In
addition, farmers tend to finance investments cn a piecemeal basis rather than
in the framework of a sound development plan. In an effort to simplify the
interest rate structure and to provide terms better suited to the investments
in Tras-os-Montes, the proposed project would introduce a constant level
interest rate for term lending in agriculture. The experience gained under
this project would be important for rationalizing overall lending terms in
agriculture (paras. 4.10 and 4.11).
2.22     Since about 1976 banks have, in line with the Government's emphasis
on agricultural development, increased lending to agriculture 1/, until by mid
1980 total loans outstanding had reached Esc.3_3 billion (then US $630 million)
equivalent to about 5% of the banking system's total outstanding credit; one
_/  Includes fisheries and forestry.



-12-
third of this is medium-and long-term loans.  In the Tras-os-Montes region
agriculture plays a more important role in the banks' lending activities than
for Portugal in general, with a share ranging from 20% to 70% for short-term
credits and up to 20% for investment credits. Banks in general recognize the
importance agriculture has in the development of the region and most of themn
indicated that they plan to expand their operations in agriculture an.d to
strengthen the staff concerned with agricultural lending.
2.23     IFADAP, with resources of about Esc.6.5 billion (US $93 million) in
1981, is managed by a Board consisting of five members, appointed by joint
decison of MACP and the Ministry of Finance and Planning upon recommendation
of the Bank of Portugal.  Since it was set up two years ago) IFADAP has
evolved into a well organized institution; it has prepared general guidelines
for financing agricultural, forestry, and fisheries operations, and made a
good beginning in establishing regional offices.  In spite of this, IFADAP's
main task, that of refinancing loans to agriculture, has scarcely begun.
Major reasons for the delay have included uncertainties related to changes in
management, and the development of loan appraisal procedures which are too
complex.  A new management board was appointed in December 1980.  It has made
an encouraging start in simplifying and decentralizing loan approval
procedures.  Its main tasks for the future will be to strengthen the internal
organization as well as rationalizing agricultural credit terms and completing
the establishment of regional offices. In the Tras-os-Montes region, IFADAP
has opened a regional office at Vila Real and is planning to open an
additional branch at Chaves, and another yet to be identified within the
project area. These branches will be supplemented by mobile services.
2.24     Twelve banks provide a network of 78 branches widely spread
throughout the Tras-os-Montes -egion. While a few banks have decentralized
their operational decision making, most remain highly centralized in the loan
approval process, with branch managers referring all but minor decisions to
their central office in Porto or Lisbon. Branch managers usually have
authority to approve shorter maturity loans (0 to 3 years) up to Esc.500,000
(US $7,000), or in a few cases to Esc.1,500,000 (US $21,000). To become more
effective, banks need a wider range of experienced technical staff, increased
emphasis on the earning capacity of investments rather than collateral in the
loan approval process, and decentralization of the investment appraisal
capability, in order to both support the general need for more decentralized
decision making and to familiarize the banks' appraisal staff with the
agricultural conditions of the region concerned.
2.25     A rnew emphasis has been given recently to the development of the
Agricultural Cooperative Credit System both at the national level and in the
Tras-os-Montes Region. In Tras-os-Montes there are, at present, 17
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo - CCAM),
mostly in the southern part of the region. Individual CCAMs have between 200
and 700 members, with the average cooperative having about 400 members. Their
organization and procedures are in general rudimentary and they have relied
for loan appraisal on the Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) (para 2c28). Loans
are made against regular collaterals such as mortgage, chattel or third party
guarantees. While their lending volume in Tras-os-Montes is not separately



-13-
recorded, it is evident from reviews of a sample of CCAMs that their lending
has increased as much as 30% per year during the period 1975 to 1980, i.e.
faster than that of the commercial banks. An important initiative to
strengthen the CCAMs was taken in early 1981 with a law under which they have
been formally recognized as special lending institutions entitled to perform
all regular banking functions for agriculture and agroindustries. IFADAP has
taken over from CGD the responsibility for refinancing their lending
operations. The National Federation of CCAMs (FENACAM) will assist: in
recruiting and training professional staff for the CCAMs, will give technical
assistance in appraising subloans, and will also initiate the formation of
new CCAMs in all concelhos where they do not exist at present.
Infrastructure
2.26     The road density (km of road per km2) in the Tras-os-Montes region
is 0.28 compared with 0.33 for Portugal as a whole. Although a network of
paved roads exists, some of them are impassable in winter, while circuitous
routes in other cases weaken ties between various parts of the region.
Traffic flow maps clearly show the low levels of movement by road between the
region and the rest of the country. While the region generates one third of
Portugal's electricity, regional consumption per capita is about one quarter
of the national average, although most communities have electrical
connections. The percentage of homes served by potable water is very low, and
even the centrally located water systems which many communities possess often
are in danger of contamination by inadequate separation of livestock drinking
facilities, laundry tanks, and open tanks from which drinking water is drawn.
In both health and education, as discussed previously, conditions are the
worst in Portuigal, with the highest infant mortality rates, the lowest ratio
of medical personnel to population, and the lowest school attendance in the
country.
Local Government
2.27     Local government through municipalities or concelhos has existed for
about 150 years in Portugal, but recently two important developments have
taken place: (a) the emphasis on free elections at every level, even that of
the submunicipality (the "freguesia"), with a concomitant requirement of
openness to public participation and criticism; and (b) the beginnings of a
devolution of financial resources to concelhos so that they can, in fact,
carry out programs of construction of public works for which they have titular
responsibility. These developments have resulted in the emergence of well
informed, frequently dynamic leadership in the concelhos, and in the
commencement of serious investment programs in water supply, sanitation,
streets, public housing, schools, and various community structures. Major
weaknesses still remain, however.  One is that the concelhos still depend very
largely on the central government for funds, and have only limited powers to
raise their own revenues locally. While the local finances law of 1L979
required Government to allocate a minimum of 18% of its tax receipts to local
authorities, the performance during 1980, the first year of operation, fell
considerably short of this.  The second problem is that decision making is far
from decentralized yet, though for smaller development programs, such as those
in the proposed project, municipalities can largely make their own decisions.



-14-
2.28     Municipalities receive their financing mainly from direct taxes which
they themselves impose, allocations from the national Governnent budget, and
borrowing.  Although experience with the law of local financing is still
limited, in practice so far most of the receipts of municipaLities have come
frQm the national budget. Direct taxes which municipalities are allowed to
levy are relatively minor, consisting of fire service charges, vehicle
registration, tourism taxes, and so on. The major source of borrowing, when
this begins to rise as Government anticipates, is expected to be the Caixa
Geral de Depositos (CGD), an autonomous but fully nationalized financial
agency. In the future this could also include other financing institutions,
generally referred to as Institutos do Credito para Investimentos Municipaes
(ICIMs). A line of credit of Esc.5 billion for municipal development,
established on July 7, 1980, was exhausted in 1981 and Government agreed, in
early 1982, to CGD establishing a new line of credit under which the project
components to be implemented by municipalities would be financed. This new
line of credit amounts to Esc.3 billion for the whole country of which Esc.17
billion is allocated for the Tras-os-Montes. Credits to municipalities
receive an interest rate subsidy of 5.25% from CGD and 4% from Treasury. In
addition, investments included in an integrated development program qualify in
varying degrees for grants from the Inter Municipal Development Fund. For
short-term borrowing, to cover current expenses, municipalities can also have
recourse to the CGD. The provision of subsidies is considered a legitimate
means to redress regional development imbalances.
2.29     The establishment of the Coordination Commission for the Nortnern
Region (CCRN) under the Ministry of Local Administration has provided a
valuable boost to local government in the entire northern area of Portugal,
including the Tras-os-Montes region. One of the most important actions of the
CCRN has been to establish and equip six technical offices in main centers of
the Tras-os-Montes region. These offices, called Gabinetes de Apoio Tecnico
or GATs ('Offices of Technical Support"), have provided much needed
engineering expertise to assist concelhos in planning and designing
infrastructural investments.



-15-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Concept
3.01     The project was identified in the course of a Bank agricultural
sector survey mission to Portugal in late 1976, based on background papers
prepared earlier by the since disbanded Commission for the Development of
Tras-os-Montes. A FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program reconnaissance mission
visited the Tras-os-Montes region in December 1977, and initiated the setting
up of a working group which prepared background data for a subsequent visit by
the FAO/WB CP in May/June of 1978. A formal identification report was issued
in August 1978, and a national preparation team was set up with an appointed
Director, and staff members from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DRIM), the DGHEA (Lisbon), and the Coordination Commission for
the Northern Region (CCRN), whose President was appointed Project Coordinator
in late 1979. The project was then prepared by the national team assisted, in
the course of several visits to the region, by staff of the FAO/WB CP. A
draft preparation report was issued by the CP in May 1980 and the final report
in August 1980. Appraisal took place in November 1980. Due to protracted
considerations on project scope and the need to resolve outstanding issues of
municipality financing and lending conditions to subborrowers, negotiations
were delayed until April 1982.
Project Objectiv es
3.02     The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  to establish a base for technological progress of agriculture in the
region, and to improve agricultural services to the point where they
can effectively stimulate such progress;
(b)  to raise incomes of farm families by supporting changes in farming
systems towards livestock production, and an expansion of production
of quality wines;
(c)  to raise standards of living and support: development in the poorest
region of Portugal by improving physicaL and social infrastructure;
and
(d)  to encourage decentralization of public activities by an expansion
and strengthening of regional agricultural services, support for the
infrastructural development programs of concelhos, and the
enhancemnent of planning, design, and maintenance capabilities of a
range of regional institutions.
The project fits well with Government's goals of expanding pasture-based meat
and dairy production and increasing output of quality wines in order to
improve the foreign trade balance, of decentralizing public services, and of
preparing rural areas for Portugal's planned accession to the EEC.
Project Description
3.03     The project would consist of the following main components:



-16-
(a) Rehabilitation of 150 small irrigation schemes in the Mountain and
High Valley zones, covering about 2,720 farms with 7,500 ha
irrigated, and a total area of 15,200 ha.
(b) Agricultural credit to farmers to support (through purchases of
livestock, farm machinery, seeds, fertilizers, and other requisites,
and construction of livestock shelters) a five-year time-slice of the
program of development of intensive dairying in the above irrigated
areas, beef cattle and sheep production on rainfed pastures in the
Planalto Mirandes zone (about 860 farms on 17,200 ha) and the Terra
Quente zone (a pilot operation involving about 150 cooperative group
units on 4,500 ha), as well as vineyard establishment in the Douro
zone (around 2,200 farms on 4,400 ha).
(c) Construction of 109 cooperative milking parlors, and credit to
cooperatives for about 80 storage facilities, and transportation
vehicles (see para 4.23).
(d) Investments in buildings, houses, vehicles, and equipment for
agricultural research, extension, animal health and breeding, and
irrigation services.
(e)  Construction of about 80 km of new rural roads, improvement of about
120 km of existing roads, and paving of streets in 61 villages.
(f)  Investments in water supply schemes in 56 communities, improvements
in small water supply schemes with standpipes in about 160 villages,
and construction of sewage schemes in 65 communities.
(g) Rehabilitation or construction of about 60 classrooms for primary
schools.
(h) Construction and equipping of 2 health centers and 12 health posts,
as well as other conmunity development works.
(i) Studies covering irrigation, groundwater, and olive development;
irrigation trials, consulting assistance for agricultural research,
livestock husbandry and breeding, the credit system, cooperatives,
management training in concelhos, and monitoring/evaluation; and
fellowships for training.
(j) Incremental salaries and operating expenses during the project
implementation period for agricultural research, extension, animal
health and breeding, and irrigation services.



-17-
Irrigation Development
3.04     Rehabilitation Schemes.  The project would include rehabilitation of
150 of the most promising of the estimated 1,500 small irrigation schemes in
the project area. Rehabilitation would consist of repair or reconst:ruction of
diversion weirs, construction of new concrete main and secondary canals, and
structures and offtakes equipped with steel slide gates. In order not to
disturb existing winter irrigation of pastures, rehabilitation works would be
carried out during the months of May to October. It is expected that
rehabilitation would reduce water losses from 50% to 20%, increasing by about
60% the amounts of water available for the summer period.
3.05     Four of the existing schemes have been studied in detail, sand the
study has been used to establish a model for an irrigation rehabilitation
scheme (details in the Project File). Based oni the model, the project would
provide funds for about 7,500 m3 of concrete work in repair or construction
of weirs, construction of 270,000 m of new concrete canals and 13,500 m of
syphons, installation of 5,400 steel gates, and technical assistance for
design and supervision.  The works would be done by force account, with
farmers being responsible for earth canals, drains, and land levelling on
their own farms.
3.06     Irrigated Agriculture.  The major development on farms within the
proposed irrigation schemes would be the change from a two year
potatoes/cereal rotation to a four-year rotation including potatoes, cereal,
and two years of temporary ryegrass/clover pasture. Intensive dairying would
be developed based on forage from this irrigated pasture and from improvement
in other pastures and temporary forages in non-irrigated areas of the farms
involved. Within this framework the main variations would be between the
Mountain and thie High Valley zones. In the Mountain zone potato production is
principally for seed, and the major cereal is rye.  Dairying would be based on
genetic upgradiing of herds of Brown Swiss cattle. In the High Valley zone
there is commercial (food) potato production with wheat as the major cereal.
Friesian heifers would be imported to build up intensive dairying in this
zone. At negotiations Government gave an assurance that it would expedite the
granting of licenses for importing cattle required by the project.
Rainfed Agriculture
3.07     Aside from improvement of rainfed areas on farms in irrigation
schemes (vetch/oats/ryegrass forages substituted for fallows and permnanent
pasture sown on marginal cereal areas), most development of rainfed
agriculture would take place in the Planalto Mirandes zone, with some pilot
activities in the Terra Quente zone. On some 860 farms covering 17,200 ha in
the Planalto Mirandes zone, the following developments would take place: the
traditional cereals/fallow rotation would be reduced in area, and the freed
land would be sown to improved permanent pasture, while the remaining, fallow
would be sown with vetch for seed in combination with vetch and oats for
additional, temporary forage production. The livestock enterprise would be
based on the local Mirandesa cattle, sometimes crossed with Charolais, for the



-18-
production of veal and some beef.  The pilot activities in the l'erra Quente
zone would comprise replacement of a rye/fallow rotation on poor soils with
permanent pasture, improvement of lameiros and forage crops on moister soils,
and undersowing olive trees with a subterranean clover pasture. Management
would be by several farmers cooperatively developing and fencing contiguous
blocks of land which would be grazed by their sheep flocks in an intensified
rotational fashion. It is proposed that about 4,500 ha would be thus
developed in some 150 units each of 30 ha, with (typically) three owners
cooperating to form each 30 ha unit.
On Farm Investments
3.08     In order to carry out the above farm developinent, considerable
investments would be needed in livestock, livestock shelters, farm machinery,
pasture establishment, drainage, and fencing. This investment, a major
time-slice of which would be supported by credit provided under the project,
is estimated to include some 4,400 imported Friesian heifers, 1,700 beef
heifers, 7,500 ewe lambs, Esc.250 million (US $3.6 million) in livestock
shelters, 7,900 ha of permanent pasture, Esc. 64 million (US $0.9 million) in
drainage and fencing, and 80 tractors (60 to 70 HP) with implements, 30 seed
drills, 80 mowers, and 30 pickup balers.
Vineyard Establishment
3.09     In the Douro zone, new vine plantations for production. of port wine
would take place in three circumstancesz
(a)  about 1,150 ha of completely new vineyards would be established in
the'mortorios' areas in approximately one ha lots which would be
developed by farmers already growing one ha of vines;
(b)  in already existing vineyards in the 'encostaW areas (land of
intermediate slopes), about 525 farmers would each replant one ha of
aging vines whose productivity had begun to decline;
(c)  a similar development would take place on some 525 ha in the 'plano'
area of very easily sloping topography.
Credit would be provided to farmers for support of this vineyard development,
to finance the costs of terracing, de-stoning, erecting trellises, fertilizer,
vines and grafting, and various operations in the vineyards - such as
cultivation, weeding, pruning, and pest control - during the four-year time
period before the new vines begin to bear fruit. The credit would also
provide for purchase of about 100 35 HP tractors with implements in the Douro
zone.
Agricultural Services
3.10     The project would provide vehicles and new houses for extension
staff, two veterinary laboratories, an artificial insemination (Al) unit, a
seed laboratory with equipment, machinery to equip two demonstration units in
the extension service, and holding areas which Government staff- would use for
assembling livestock for distribution to farmers. In addition, salaries and



-19-
operating expenses of the research, extension, veterinary and AI services
during the implementation period would be included as project costs. In all,
approximately Esc.568 million (US $8.1 million) not including price escalation
is provided in the project for these services.
Rural Roads and Streets
3.11      Rural Roads.  The project would provide funds for the construction of
about 25 new connection roads of a total length of 80 km and for the
improvement of about 30 connection roads of a total length of 120 km. A
description of each road, its justification, and design standards to be used
for its construction or improvement, are in the Project File.
3.12     Village Streets.  Village streets are traditionally construc:ted in
Tras-os-Montes using a surface of granite blocks after a good compact:ion of
the underneath soil. The project would provide funds for the covering with
granite blocks of streets of a total area of 428,000 m2 located in 61.
villages of the project area, in order to improve environmental and health
conditions in villages where streets are in dep:Lorable condition part:icularly
during adverse weather.
Water Supply and Sanitation
3.13     Based on extensive planning surveys which were designed to reveal
which localities in the region were natural centers to which people t:ravelled
for a significant number of services, and which would be natural growth
centers, the CCRN established a set of priorities for allocating
infrastructure improvements, particularly water supply and sewage schemes,
among the 35 concelhos of the region. The project includes about 60
subprojects for water supply and 65 for sewage, to serve an estimated, total
population of 69,000 persons. The cost of these subprojects, not including
price escalation is estimated to be Esc.l,442 million (US $20.6 million).
Criteria and design standards for these schemes are in the Project File. The
project would not include house connections for either water supply or sewage,
and these would be the responsibility of indiviclual beneficiaries. Although
it has seldom proved necessary in the past to encourage these with credit, the
practice of doing so where needed would be continued.  In addition, a sum of
Esc.208 million (US $3.0 million) would be included in the project to improve
approximately 160 water supply schemes in small villages where works would be
carried out to develop a protected source of water, and, where needed, to
provide such facilities as main pipelines, standpipes for drinking water and
community washing tanks. The total population served by these small schemes
is estimated to be 48,000.
Education and Health
3.14     The project would provide for the construction and equipping of 60
primary school classrooms to provide school buildings for communities where
none at present exists, or where existing buildings are dilapidated or grossly
inadequate. The classrooms provided in the project would be for multigrade
schools, which would serve as a prototype for future facilities. Priority



-20-
would be given to small rural communities. The project also would provide for
the construction and equipping of two health centers and 12 health posts and
other community development works, to bring health services t:o remote mountain
areas. Health programs 7would be inter-related with the ongoing adult
education program (PNAEBA).
Research and Studies
3.15     Agricultural Research.  Within the new organization for agricultural
research proposed under the project (para 4.16), most of such research would
be concentrated in farmers' fields, with existing stations used as bases for
field research teams, as well as for some specific investigat:ions. The
project would provide funds for an estimated 25 research cont:racts, each
costing about Esc.9.3 million (US $l.33,000) and including additional salaries
for staff, equipment and materials, vehicles, and operation and maintenance
costs during the expected two-year life of each research contract. Costing of
contracts is phased so that there is a heavier concentration in the earlier
project years to allow time for their completion. A detailed description of
proposed topics is to be found in the Project File. The research program
would be of crucial importance to the success of the project itself, and would
also lay the foundation for further and more widespread advances in
agriculture in the region.
Irrigation Trials and Studies
3.16     One new small irrigation scheme would be established on a trial basis
in each oi. the three principal ecological zones of the project area where
irrigationi is appropriate. In each case, this would include the construction
of a small dam with an irrigated area of about 145 ha. The establishment of
new irrigation schemes may have considerable potential for future long term
development in the Tras-os-Montes and the trial scheme to be undertaken under
the project would determine the capacity of DGHEA to effectively undertake
such work, farmer response, and the economics of production. Trials would be
carefully evaluated by the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro.
3.17     Water Resources and Irrigation.  A background study and a specific
feasibility study would be financed under the project in the sphere of water
use:
(a) Groundwater Studies, to be carried out in all potentially favorable
locations in the project area (para 2.03), would identify sources of
water for irrigation which would be more economical than construction
of storage dams, and could lead to large savings in future irrigation
investments. The project would finance the estimated 48 months of
consulting time required, as well as drilling of exploratory wells,
procurement of equipment and materials for testing and establishment
of models. The studies would be phased over three years at an
estimated cost of Esc.107 million. (US $1.5 million) not including
price contingencies. Detailed terms of reference are in the Project
File. Each phase would be evaluated on completion and consideration
given at that time to the justification of continuing the program.



-21-
(b)  Feasibility of Expansion of the Chaves Irrigation Scheme.  About
900 ha are currently irrigated from the Tamega river in t'he plain of
Chaves, and it is believed that this could be expanded to 6,000 ha
with assured water supplies. This is the most promising area in the
entire region for irrigation expansion, by virtue of its topography,
its proximity to a rapidly growing and important urban area, and the
possibilities for high valued crops. The project would fimance the
studies involved, which would include groundwater investigation,
hydrological and geotechnical examination of possible dam locations,
soil surveys, land use and tenure, agronomic studies and economic
evaluation. The study is estimated to take two years to complete and
to cost about Esc.55 million (US $790,000) not including price
contingencies. At negotiations, Government gave an assurance that it
would prepare terms of reference for this study by March 31, 1983.
3.18     Olive Development Study.  The project would provide Esc.19.3 million
(US $280,000) to finance a study which would determine the expansion potential
of olive development and would examine alternatives of irrigating olive
plantations. At negotiations, Government gave an assurance that it: would*
prepare terms of reference for the study by March 31, 1983.
3.19     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under the project, provision would be
made for baseline socio-economic surveys and a series of special purpose -
research studies to augment ongoing and continuous monitoring activities in
all agencies implementing the project. The organization of these i.s described
in paras 4.30 - 4.31'and it is estimated that staffing of the monitoring and
evaluation unit would cost about Esc.18 million (US $260,000), not including
price escalation, during the project period of five years.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.20     A wide range of consulting assistance, some domestic and some
foreign, would be provided under the project (Annex 1, Table 5).
Internationally recruited firms or specialists would be engaged to carry out
the groundwater studies, and to assist with agricultural research planning,
animal health, artificial insemination, management training for credit
institutions, concelhos and cooperatives, and monitoring/evaluation.  The
irrigation feasibility study (para 3.17(b)) and the olive development study
(para 3.18) would be carried out by local consulting firms. In total,
approximately 7 years of consultancy time would be provided for implementation
of the project, and a further 12 years through the various studies. One of
the main tasks of the consultants would be to train local staff. Costs for
most internationally recruited consultants have been calculated on the basis
of a unit cost of US $10,000 per month of which US $8,500 is foreign cost (for
fees, overheads, travel and overseas allowances) and US $1,500 local cost (for
subsistence, Local transportation, local office operating expenses, etc.).
All consultants would be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. In
addition to training carried out by consultants, the project provides
fellowships for training members of the Monitoring and Evaluation Units



-22-
(para 4.29 to 4.31) and staff of credit institutions and FENACAM (para 4.15).
There would also be training of staff of the extension and animal health
services (paras 4.19 and 4.21).
Status of Engineering
3.21     For the existing irrigation schemes to be rehabilil-ated no further
studies are required. The works to be executed would be decided in the field
by the supervising engineer on the basis of established principles, taking
into account the local conditions. Implementation would follow using the
force account system. For 24 of the suggested 55 rural roads to be included
in the project, final design has already been prepared. After a revision of
the design on the basis of agreed criteria these roads will be ready for
implementation. Final design for the remaining roads would be prepared
subsequently by the GATs or the municipality involved. For the village
streets standard designs, acceptable to the Bank, would be used. Detailed
designs are available for 75% of the subprojects of the water supply and
sanitation component proposed for inclusion in the project. To demonstrate the
manner in which appreciable cost savings could be achieved, six water supply
and six sewage disposal schemes have been redesigned by the GATs during the
period since field appraisal. These six schemes would be ready for
implementation as soon as the loan became effective. Revision in the same
manner of the design of the other schemes and preparation of designs for the
remaining schemes would be carried out by the GATs or municipalities
progressively and well ahead of the implementation program. Standard designs,
acceptable to the Bank, would be used for primary school classrooms, health
facilities, staff housing, office and laboratory facilities, and community
milking parlors. At negotiations Government gave assurances that adequate
technical staff of the CATs would be assigned to meet the 'emands of design
and construction supervision, taking into account the availab ilty of private
consultants. The project would supply vehicles and survey equipment for GAT
staff. Criteria for inclusion of individual roads, water supply and sewage
subprojects in the project are in the project file. The Bank would in any
case review the first six schemes, and thereafter, would review designs of all
building construction civil works costing more than US$ 300,000 (Esc.21
million) for other infrastructural works. At negotiations Government gave
assurances that it would enable the Bank to review and discuss plans,
programs, reports, financing plans and designs furnished by the Municipalities.
Implementation Schedule
3.22     Rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes would start in the
first year of the project with ten schemes, and would continue at a
progressively increased rate until the end of the project. Construction of
village streets, schools, health units and staff housing wculd all begin in
the first year of the project and be completed by December 1986, while roads,
water supply and sanitation schemes would be completed by December 1987. Most
studies would be finished by 1986. Annex 1, Graphic 23914 shows the
implementation schedule of the main project works. No new commitments would be
made after December 1987, to allow time for disbursements t:o be completed by
the closing date (December 31, 1988).



-23-
Cost Estimates
3.23     The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated to be Esc.10,849 million (US $154.8 million) of which Esc.7,272
million (US $103.8 million) would be local cost and Esc.3,577 million
(US $51.0 million) foreign cost (33%). Cost estimates are based on prices of
mid 1982. Civil works cost estimates include 5% taxes and duties, and are
derived from unit prices obtained from similar works in the country.
Quantities are based on models established for each kind of work. Equipment
cost estimates are based on unit prices of similar equipment procured in
Portugal and on price quotations from suppliers. No taxes have been added
since all agricultural equipment is exempted from taxes. Physical
contingencies have been assessed at 15% for civil works and 10%, where
appropriate, for equipment and consultants. Price escalation estimates assume
increases in local currency costs of 18% for 1982, 1983, and 1984 and 17%
thereafter (based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign exchange
costs of 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983, 1984 and 1985, and 6.5% thereafter.
Project cost estimates are summarized in the table below and detailed in
Annex 1, Table 3.



-24-
Cost Estimate (Summary) 1/
Esc. million                         US. 3 million                 Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total         Local      Foreign       Total       Exchange
Cost        Cost        Cost          Cost        Cost         Cost            %
A.  IRRIGATION
Rehabilitation                   271           57         328           3.9         0.8         4.7            17
B.  ON-FARM INVESTMENTS
Livestock                         65          287         352           0.9         4.1         5.0            81
Pasture Establishment             43           52          95          0.6          0.7         1.3            55
Machinery                          77         210         287           1.1         3.0         4.1            73
Vineyard Establishment           457          360         817           6.5         5.2        11.7            44
Buildings, Fences, etc.          224           89         313           3.2         1.3         4.5            28
Subtotal                      866         998       1,864          12.3         14.3        26.6            54
C.  INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply and Sewage        1,095          554        1,649         15.6         7.9        23.5            34
Rural Roads and Streets          817          356        1,173         11.7         5.1        16.8            30
Health Facilities                113           68          181          1.6         1.0         2.6            38
Schools                           98           46          144          1.4         0.7         2.1            32
Agricultural Marketing           137          206          343          2.0         2.9         4.9            60
Subtotal                    2,260       1,230         3,490        32.3         17.6        49.9            35
D.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Buildings                        118           62          180          1.7         0.9         2.6            34
Vehicles and Equipment            25          107          132          0.3         1.5          1.8           81
Administration                    40            4           44          0.6          -           0.6            9
Agricultural Services            266           26          292          3.8         0.4          4.2           10
Subtotal                      449         199           648         6.4          2.8         9.2            30
E.  STUDIES, RESEARCH AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Studies                           84           98          182          1.2         1.4         2.6            54
Research                         169           80          249          2.4         1.1          3.5           31
Technical Assistance                9          58           67          0.1         0.8         0.9            87
Fellowships                         8          11            19         0.1         0.2         0.3            58
Subtotal                      270         247           517         3.8          3.5         7.3           48
Total bse Cost                     4,116        2,731        6,847         58.7        39.0         97.7           40
Total Physical Contingencies          19;           /3          268         2.8          1.0         3.8            26
Total Price Escalation              2,961         773        3,734         42.3         11.0        53.3            21
GRAND TOTAL                     7,272        3,577       10,849        103.8        51.0       154.8            33
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



-25-
Financing
3.24     The Bank loan would finance most of the foreign exchange costs of the
project.  Borrowing farmers and cooperatives would make downpayments of 15% of
investments i-inanced by credit; of the balance, commercial banks would
contribute not less than 20% and CCAMs not less than 10% of disbursements to
subborrowers from their own resources. The remainder would be financed by
IFADAP out of funds provided under the loan through PBIs including CCAMs.  In
the case of IFADAP direct lending, 10% of disbursements to farmers would be
made out of ]:FADAP's own resources and the remainder from funds provided under
the loan.  Municipalities would make downpayments of 20% of investments
financed, ancl 65% would be provided through the line of credit extended by an
Instituto do Credito para Investimentos Municipaes (ICIM) and 15% through the
Inter Municipal Fund as a grant. Government would finance all other local
currency costs. The financing plan is as follows;
Local Cost    Foreign Exchange    Total         Percent
Component         Component
----------------------- US $ million ------------------------
IBRD                    -                  51.0             -              33
Government             29.2                 -              29.2             19
Credit Institutions
a) PBIs             2.5                  -               2.5             2
b) CCAMs            1.25                 -               1.25            1
c) IFADAP           1.35                 -               1.35            1
d) ICIMs           48.0                  -              48.0            31
Subborrowers           6.8                  -               6.8             4
Municipalites          14.7                 -              14.7              9
TOTAL                103.8                 51.0           154.8           100
At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would make available
its own share of the financing promptly as needed. The provision of funds
from participating banks and CCAMs would be secured through subloan agreements
which IFADAP would conclude with them.
Procurement
3.25     A line of credit, totalling an estimiated Esc.2.7 billion
(US $38.5 million), would provide 85% of the costs of investments by farmers
(including livestock, livestock shelters, pasture establishment, fencing,
drainage, vineyard establishment and farm machinery), and by cooperatives for



-26-
stores and trucks. With the exception of approximately 3,200 Friesian heifers
with an estimated cost including price escalation of Esc.391 million
(US $5.6 million), which would be procured following limited international
tendering with quotations from supplying countries, all other items under this
credit as well as construction materials (cement, timber, aggregate, steel
gates, etc.) used in the rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, with a
total estimated cost including price escalation of Esc.178 million (US
$2.5 million), and small items costing US$1,000 or less would be purchased
from local suppliers.  Local commercial outlets offer a wide choice, and there
is keen competition. Supervision, labor and mechanical work for the
rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes would be carried out on a force
account basis by DGHEA. Municipal investments would be procured under the
borrower's procedures.
3.26     Earth-moving and milking parlor equipment and vehicles with a total
estimated cost including price escalation of Esc.434 million (US $6.2 million)
would be procured (with exceptions noted below) following international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Small
equipment contracts of up to US $100,000 equivalent may be awarded to reliable
suppliers after quotations have been obtained from at least three such
suppliers. The aggregrate expenditure for items so procured, would not exceed
US $1 million equivalent. Proprietary equipment may be purchased
off-the-shelf from reliable suppliers. Equipment for offices, laboratories,
and staff-houses with a total estimated cost including price escalation of
Esc.120 million (US $1.7 million) and civil works would be procured following
local tender procedures.  Local suppliers exist in sufficient numbers t,.
ensure competition. A detailed list of project equipment is given in Annex 1,
Table 4.
Disbursement
3.27     The Bank loan of US $51 million would be disbursed over a period of
seven years as follows:
(a) 90% of credit disbursed directly by IFADAP for investments on farms
and by cooperatives as recorded in statements of expenditure by
IFADAP (US $12.0 million);
(b)  100% of IFADAP's disbursements to PBIs for on-farm investments on
farms (US 19.0 million);
(c) 80% of the total costs of construction materials used in
rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes (US$2.0 million);
(d) 90% of the total costs of equipment and materials for the
agricultural and agricultural credit services (US $4.0 million);
(e) 70% of the total costs of civil works for the agricultural and
agriculture-related components of the project (US 03.2 million);



-27-
(f)    80% of the total costs of equipment, vehicles, and materials required
for research studies, pilot projects and training, consultants
services, including research contracts, and fellowships
(US $8.0 million); and
(g)    unallocated (US $2.8 million).
An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and is detailed in
Annex 1, Table 6. While based on project-specific assumptions, this also
conforms quite closely with Bank-wide disbursernent experience in agricultural
projects.
BANK FISCAL YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS        83      84      85       86      87       88      89
------------------- US   m.Llion -------------------
Annual               1.7     4.7      8.5    11.2    12.1      8.3     4,5
Cumulative           1.7     6.4    14.9    26.:L    38.2    46.5    51.0
The closing date of the project would be December 31, 1988.
Accounts and Audit
3.28     The regional Directorate of Agriculture (DRTM), the DGHEA, the
Ministry of Health and the concelhos, would establish and maintain separate
accounts for their expenditures under the project.  IFADAP, and the
participating banks or cooperatives for agricuLtural credit, as well as the
ICIMs for credit to concelhos for infrastructure, would establish and maintain
separate accounts for project operations, by type of subloan, and irn
accordance with sound accounting principles. 'In addition, the regional office
of IFADAP in Vila Real, and the central offices of the ICIMs, would establish
central filing systems containing complete records of all subborrowers
arranged respectively by subregion and farm model, or by concelho and type of
infrastructure.
3.29     The Ministries each have Inspection Units which are responsible for
"audit and control" of expenditures by the Ministries' agencies, based on
quarterly reports from the offices of various Directorates. In addition,
consolidated annual reports are sent to the Tribunal de Contas, the highest
Government financial control agency, which does not routinely audit these
accounts but can do so at any time. IFADAP's operations are audited, under
its charter, by the board of auditors of the Bank of Portugal. Under the
agreement for the Agricultural Credit Project (Ln 1603-PO) IFADAP's project
accounts would be audited annually by an independent firm of auditors
acceptable to the Bank. A similar assurance has been obtained for the present
project. The annual accounts of the concelhos must be approved every year by



..:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 
-28-
March 31 by the Tribunal de Contas, while the Inspeccao Geral de Financas in
the Ministry of Finance must make an audit of these accounts at least every
three years. The CGD has a strong internal auditing system, as well as being
overseen by the Tribunal de Contas. Audited statements of all project
accounts, covering both expenditures and sources of funds, and audited
statements of expenditure in the case of credit, would be collected together
by the Project Administration Unit and forwarded to the Bank within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. At negotiations, the Government gave
assurances to this effect.
Environmental Effect
3.30     The project would have an overall beneficial impact on the physical
environment and population. Improved water supply in approximately 216
villages and sewage schemes in 65 communities would substantially increase
protection against existing health hazards. Roads to be constructed under the
project would allow some isolated villages easier access to hospitals and
health centers, while the health system itself would be improved. Increased
production and availability of animal proteins (meat and milk) due to the
project would improve human diets and health. Extension agents would be
trained under the project to ensure safe handling and use of recommended plant
protection chemicals by farmers, and would continuously make observations for
any adverse effects, which are not expected.
The Situation and Role of Women
3.31     The substantial outmigration from the region, whether of a short-term
or long-term nature, has been biased towards men, with the result that women
have been left with an even more than usually strong role to play in the rural
areas. There is also evidence, in the high rates of neo-natal and maternal
deaths compared with the rest of Portugal, that women suffer
disproportionately from inadequacies in basic social services such as health
care. Although general measures taken under the project to improve
agriculture would also provide substantial benefits for women, project
activities in improving health facilities would have particular benefits to
offer them. This would be supplemented by the ongoing National Program for
Basic Adult Education (PNAEBA) which offers training in literacy, health,
hygiene and nutrition. In addition, agricultural extension programs which
deal with farm activities, such as care of dairy livestock, in which women are
heavily involved, would be implemented by women extension agents wherever
possible.



-29-
IV ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.01     The Government of Portugal would be the Borrower under the project.
Responsibility for overall planning and coordination would rest with the
Coordination Commission for the Northern Regiin (CCRN) whose President would
also be named the Project Coordinator. A Project Administration Unit (PAU)
which would be established under the CCRN, would have full authority to
supervise day to day activities of the project (para.4.02). The project would
be carried out principally by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture (DRTM) for the agricultural services, with the assistance of the
Directorate General for Hydraulic Resources (DGHEA) for implementation of
small irrigation schemes, by IFADAP, by the Ministry responsible for
cooperatives in coordination with FENACAM, by participating financial
institutions for agricultural credit, by the Rector of the University of
Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro for project evaluation, and by the concelhos
through contractors for infrastructure. Design of infrastructural works would
be prepared either by the Offices for Technical Support (GATs) or by
consultants engaged by the concelhos. Coordination at the national level
would be obtained, as at present, by the President of CCRN in his role as
project coordinator calling together representatives of Ministries concerned
as required. In the region, a Consultative Co;uncil would deal with problems
relating to allocation of infrastructural investments (para.4.05). An outline
of the proposed project organization is in Graphic 23944.
Project Administration Unit
4.02     The Project Administration Unit, headed by the Project Coordinator,
would be established within CCRN, having its own funding under the overall
project budget. It would be a small unit, with good means of transportation,
communication and monitoring.  The Project Coordinator would exercise his
coordinating role over project implementation through three principal
officers: (1) the Regional Director of Agriculture would be the Deputy for
the agricultural component and would delegate day-to-day implementation to his
Project Director of Agricultural Services who would be responsible for the
agricultural components namely: research, irrigation, the veterinary and
livestock production service, artificial insemination, the demonstration units
for machinery and soil conservation, the livestock holding facilities, and the
seed laboratory.  He would also maintain close liaison with the special unit
set up to plan and implement agricultural research (para. 4.16), and with the
agencies supplying credit to farmers and to cooperatives to finance
agricultural and marketing investments. He would also be responsible for
monitoring the agricultural component; (2) a Deputy Project Coordinator with
appropriate support staff would be responsible for: the non agricultural
components of the project; liaison with the Department of Economic and Social
Studies in the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro; monitoring the-non
agricultural component; arranging for and monitoring studies and surveys; and
coordinating project accounting and reporting procedures. He would have
responsibility for overseeing progress on rural roads and village streets,
water supply and sewage schemes, health facilities and school buildings. This



-30-
position would involve close liaison with all concelhos and GATs in the
region, with the agencies supplying credit to concelhos to finance
infrastructure, with the district health administrations of the Ministry of
Health and with the national Directorate General for Basic Sanitation (DGBS);
(3) the Rector of the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro would be
responsible for evaluation and socio-economic studies of the proJect,
supervision of the monitoring of project implementation and, in cooperation
with the Regional Director of Agriculture, for the research program. He would
also ensure a liaison through the Regional Director of Agriculture between
research conducted by the University and that conducted by MlACP.
4.03     The PAU would receive annual work programs for approval from each of
the principal agencies involved in implementation. These would be discussed
at an annual planning meeting, with all agencies present, chaired by the
Project Coordinator, taking into account progress on the past year's
activities. Programs would be approved by this annual meeting, which would
take place in the region well in advance of each new year of the project. The
Project Coordinator could invite members of the national coordinating group
(para. 4.04) to the meeting as observers, if desired. At negotiations,
Government gave assurance that a Project Administration Unit would be
maintained with duly qualified and experienced staff and that an annual
meeting would be held to discuss project progress and budgets for the
following year.
National Coordination
4.04     To ensure coordination of key Ministries in Lisbon, the Project
Coordinator, who is also the President of the CCRN, would convene meetings as
necessary under his chairmanship. No formal group would be established but
the Project Coordinator would, in particular, ensure coordination between the
following bodies: Ministries of Internal Administration, Finance and
Planning; Agriculture Commerce and Fisheries; Cooperatives; Housing, Transport
and Public Works, Education and Health; IFADAP, FENACAM and CGD. The group's
main functions would be to resolve problems among various agencies arising in
the course of implementation, to secure Government funds for financing project
activities, and to review periodically progress both of the project itself and
of other activities outside the project but essential for its success (such as
national policies-and programs impinging upon project activities).
Consultative Council
4.05     In the region, there would be convened from time to time a
Consultative Council, whose members would be the mayors of the concelhos in
the region or their nominated representatives. The Project: Coordinator and
the Deputy Project Coordinator would be present at such meetings, and staff of
the GATs may be called in as technical advisers.



-31-
Operation and Maintenance
4.06     Operation and maintenance of small irrigation schemes would be the
responsibility of beneficiary farmers and village councils, with technical
assistance from the DRTM. The municipalities, through their established
maintenance procedures, would maintain roads, village streets, water supply
and sewage schemes and stand pipes, schools and health facilities. As a
condition of receiving credit for infrastructure investments, municipalities
would undertake to properly maintain and operate the facilities and provide
the resources necessary for this purpose. Staffing of all services is the
responsibility of the municipalities except for the health component, which is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Annual O&M costs for all of the
above works are estimated to be Esc.42 million (US $600,000).  Funds for the
maintenance of houses and vehicles for extension staff would be allocated in
the DRTM annual budget. The annual maintenance cost for houses ancd buildings
would be about Esc.1.4 million (US $20,000), while the O&M cost for vehicles
would be an estimated Esc.25.7 million (US $367,000). The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it would take all the necessary measures,
including strengthening of the technical services of municipalities and
allocation of funds required for operation and maintenance of all facilities
provided under the project.
Credit for Infrastructure
4.07     The concelhos would receive 65% of the investment cost of project
roads, village streets, water supply and sewagye schemes, and school.
classrooms, in the form of loans from the Credit Institute for Municipal
Investments (ICIMs) at interest rates of 16.75% p.a. The loans would have a
repayment period of 15 years including 3 year; of grace. Municipalities would
receive 15% of the investment costs as a grant: from the Fund for Inter
Municipal Investments. Credit ceilings under which generally ICIMs operate
would not be allowed to restrict credit extended for investments under the
project.
Credit for Agriculture and Cooperatives
4.08     Under the project, an estimated Esc.2.9 billion (US i41 million)
including price escalation, would be invested on farms for purchase of
livestock, construction of livestock shelters, pasture establishment, fencing
and the planting of vineyards, and by private contractors (whether farmers or
not) in the purchase of tractors and farm machinery. In addition,
cooperatives would construct stores, and purclhase trucks for transporting farm
inputs and outputs, with an estimated cost of Esc.285 million (US $4 million)
including price escalation.  Credit for all of the above on-farm artd
agricultural marketing investments would be provided either by direct lending
from IFADAP or through Mutual Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (CCAMs) and
participating commercial banks, which would in turn refinance through IFADAP.
The banking institutions and CCAMs provide a sufficiently'dense network of
branches and offices in the project area. IFAWAP already has an office in
Vila Real, and will establish an office in Chaves and another at a location
yet to be determined. In addition, IFADAP will support these branches with



-32-
mobile services. At negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that a
branch office would be established at Chaves by December 31, 1982, and that a
furt'her office would be established in the project area not later than
December 31, 1983.
4.09     To cover IFADAP's refinancing operations under the project, the
Government would provide through IFADAP, under an Agency Agreement, proceeds
of the Bank loan which would be disbursed by the Bank upon receipt of
statements of expenditure by IFADAP. At negotiations, agreement was reached
on a draft Project Agreement with IFADAP, and conclusion of an agency
agreement between Government and IFADAP would be a condition of
effectiveness. The relationship between IFADAP and the PBIs/CCAMs would be
set forth in loan agreements stipulating lending terms and conditions, their
respective responsibilities in loan approval, processing and supervision
procedures as well as staffing and training as set out in para 4.15 below.
Credit ceilings under which PBIs/CCAMs operate would be raised by amounts
equal to their uptake of Bank funds. The Government gave assurance at
negotiations that these loan agreements, and any subsequent amendments, would
be satisfactory to the Bank. The effectiveness of at least two such
agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Agricultural Credit Lending Terms and Procedures
4e10     IFADAP would, as an agent of the Government, onlend the proceeds of
the loan. for the agrieultural credit component. In the case of IFADAP direct
lending to farmers or cooperatives, the Government would provide to IFADAP the
funds equivalent to 90% of the credit to farmers at the Bank's lending rate of
11.6% for onlending to sub-borrowers at 14.5%, providing IE'ADAP with a margin
of about three percentage points. IFADAP would provide 10% of the credit from
its own resources on which it would earn a margin of 13%. IFADAP's margin on
the blend of funds would be 4.3 percentage points which is adequate to cover
its administrative costs and  l1c't * -n to -eperves.  For onlending thr'W-h
kibis and CCAMs, IFADAP would receive the loan proceeds-from the Government at
16X and onlend them to PBIs and CCAMs at 19%, providing IFADAP a commission of
three percentage points. The first ten sub-loans would be reviewed and
approved  by the Bank prior to IFADAP providing refinancing facilities. IFADAP
would refinance 90% of those made by CCAMs and 80% of the subloans made by
other PH.ls. PBIs and CCAMs would onlend these funds together with funds from
their own resources at a rate of 26% to farmers and cooperatives. On the
blend of funds from IFADAP and their own resources, PBIs and CCAMs would
receive a spread of about 7,5 percentage points.   This spread is designed to
cover their prospective administrative costs of 4-5% (including the expansion
of staffing and training), to allow provision for bad debts; and allocation to
reserves, and would provide them with sufficient incentive to participate in
the project. The Government would provide an interest subsidy to farmers of
115 percentage points, resulting in an effective rate to I.-armers of 14.5%.
While this interest rate is likely to be negative in real t:erms, it is
considered acceptable for the Tras-os-Montes Region, since it is the least
developed agricultural area of the country with a conservat:ive farmers'
attitude toward medium-term borrowing. Also, the technology to be introduced
under the project and the changed cropping patterns will lead in some cases to
an initially reduced net income in the initial years. To encourage farmers
under these circunmstances to take up credit for investment financing will
require the provision of special incentives. Furthermore, other bilaterally
financecd credit schemes partly compete with even lower rates. At
negotiations, Government gave assurances to the above arrangements.



-33-
4.11     Sub'Loan Terms and Conditions.  The minimum participation by
subborrowers would be 15% of the investment cost. Grace and repayment periods
would lie based on the cash flow analysis of individual investments, but would
normally not exceed maxima of four years and nine years, respectively. A
minimumt 14.5% p.a. interest rate would be chaLrged to subborrowers, which is
slightly below the average interest rate in force at present for a five-year
loan with a one-year disbursement period under a very complex structure of
interest rates which the proposed project aims to replace (details in the
Project File). The establishment of a constant level interst rate of not less
than 14.5% would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.12     The previous imbalance between short-and medium-term interest rates
was rectified in April 1982 when short-term rates were raised to 15.5%. To
avoid creating a bias in favor of short-term borrowing for investments,
short-term rates would be maintained at levels not less than the medium-term
lending rates. At negotiations, Government gave assurances to the terms and
conditions outlined above in paras 4.10 to 4.12.
4.13     Security.  Collateral for investment subloans would include, in line
with PBIs' current practice, mortgages and liens on equipment.  For short-term
loans, liens on livestock and crops and personal third party guarantees would
be accepted. Fire insurance and participation in the Government's crop and
livestock insurance scheme would be required for all subloans. In determining
the security required, the lending institutions would take into account the
earning capacity of the investments financed. If the collateral thlat could be
offered by subborrowers was insufficient (as might be the case in areas where
the cadastral records are outdated or incomplete), IFADAP would provide, out
of its guarantee fund, a supplementary guarantee on subloans made by PBIs.
The guarantee fund was established under the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Project (Ln. 1603-PO) and became operational in April 1982.
4.14     Procedures.  Prospective subborrowers would, with assistance of the
DRTM extensicin service, formulate their loan applications and direct them to
their local PBI or CCAM or IFADAP office. Staff of the local PBI, CCAM or
IFADAP would review the loan application for completeness and verify the
applicant's general creditworthiness for the subloan. The regionaL
directorate of the PBI, and, once established, the regional association of
CCAMs office would aim at taking over the appraisal and approval
responsibility from their central head offices, except for loans exceeding
Esc.3 million, which would continue to require head office approvaL. Until
the association of CCAM's regional office is operating, IFADAP's regional
office would take over the former's appraisal responsibility. In the case of
IFADAP direct lending, its regional office would approve all loans. Decisions
regarding refinancing of the subloans would rest with IFADAP regional office.
The first ten sub-loans would be submitted to the Bank for approval. Proceeds
of the Loan repaid by sub-borrowers to IFADAP and available for further
lending would be used to finance agricultural and agroindustrial development
in the project area. At negotiations, Government gave assurances t:o this
effect.



-34~
4.15     Staffing and Training.  Under the PBI subloan agreement PBIs would
undertake to strengthen their appraisal capability in the Tras-os-Montes
region through appointment of a minimum of two agronomists and one financial
analyst/economist to each of their regional directorates. For OCAMs, FENACAM
would strengthen its regional technical assistance staff. IFADAP, in
coordination with the Ministry responsible for Cooperatives and the National
Training Institute in Caldas da Rainha, would organize training courses for
staff of CCAMs, participating banks and the DRTM in agriculttural credit
appraisal techniques, lending procedures, loan supervision and loan
collection. IFADAP staff, who have attended various EDI courses, would be
involved in teaching the courses with assistance from specialists of the
Gulbenkian Institute. The project would also provide assistance to FENACAM
through the Ministry responsible for Cooperatives to help strengthen existing
and establish additional CCAMs totalling Esc. 109 million (US131.5 million).
This includes an amount of Esc.19 million (US $270,000) for fellowships for
training staff. At negotiations, the Government and IFADAP gave assurances
that they would submit to the Bank by December 31, 1982, a staff training
program to be initiated by IFADAP and FENACAM by March 31, 1983, and that
Government would assist them as described.
Agricultural Research
4.16     -.t is proposed under the project to set up a special research
planning and coordination team attached to the Coordination Conmission for the
Northern Region (CCRN), in close liaison with the Project Administration Unit
(para 4.02).  The team leader would have a sound agriculturaL research
experience followed by active participation in planning of agricultural
research in regional or rural development projects, and the ieam would include
an agronomist, an animal production/pasture specialist and a
marketing/agro-industries specialist, each with a similar broad background.
4.17     The tasks of the team would be to formulate a broad plan of applied
research designed to supply urgent and crucial information for development of
the region, suggest groups best qualified to carry out various components of
the plan, call for implementation proposals from specific groups and award
contracts, review progress periodically and reissue contracts for continuation
of the work or recommend cessation or modification of the programs if the
circumstances warranted. The Commission would organize funding from national
resources and international lending agencies and disburse 'fTinds according to
work in progress under the issued contract. A contract system would allow the
implementing organization to employ qualified staff from any source at
salaries designed to attract capable researchers and at the same time such a
system would not disrupt salary scales within the various agencies. The
organization and research planning would be supported for the initial two
years by consultant and technical assistance supplied under the project.  A
detailed outline of possible research topics is included in the Project Files
At negotiations, Government gave assurances that by December 315 1982, a
research organization as described above would have been established, with
staff having appropriate qualifications, that they would have submiitted to the
Bank for comment a detailed plan for urgent investigations by March 31, 1983,
and that the above research contracting and review procedure would be followed
under the project.



-35-
Agricultural Extension
4.18     The Regional Directorate of Agriculture would expand its pilot
'training and visit' (T&V) extension program to include all areas where
significant project activity would take place. An estimated six additional
subject matter specialists and 76 additional extensionists would be needed.
Extensionists normally would be from agricultural colleges, which have
recently been given university status. While a pool of unemployed
agricultural graduates exists at the present time, the average graduate is
reluctant to live in the Tras-os-Montes region because of isolation from city
life and shortage of housing. MACP is considering a new salary scale related
to the distance of the officer's work from the main centers, and this should
help in recruitment of sufficient staff, as would the provision of housing
proposed under the project.
4.19     Training. A period of training is essential for extensionists in
order to expose them to farmers' risks and problems, thus reducing the danger
of advice being given which may result in a loss of confidence in the
extensionist by the farmer. The training proposed under the project would
include a course of two months at the National Training Center (Caldas de
Rainha) to learn general extension principles and to refresh basic principles
in soils, crop, pasture and animal production and on-farm economics. This
would be follored by three months at a center near Mirandela 1/ which would
involve study of important farm practices used in the region and in new
methodology proposed. Students would be required to spend one month on a
selected farm at the beginning of this course and would be required l:o report
in detail to the DRTM on specific aspects of the farming systems.
4.20     Support Units.  Two units would be formed to investigate new methods
and as a result of these investigations demonstrate the methods to
extensionists aLnd to farmers. A machinery unit would test and demonstrate
equipment such as drills, small mowers, balers and potato lifters, while a
soil conservation unit would investigate methods of dealing with soiL
erosion. Details are in the Project File. At negotiations, the Goviernment
gave assurances that the project extension service with its support units
would be established with suitably qualified staff and would operate in
accordance with procedures described in paras 4.19 and 4.20 above.
Animal Health
4.21     Under the project, veterinary staff would be increased to improve
supervision of T.B. and Brucellosis campaigns, to carry out surveys of disease
incidence and investigation of parasite life cycles, to develop control
guidelines for farmers and extensionists, and to improve inspection of
slaughter facilities. Staff numbers for these purposes would be increased
1/ Escola Secundaria de Cavalhais.



-36-
from 14 to 25 and the appropriate number of vehicles supplied (8). A campaign
would be launched to train one villager per village as a veterinarian's
assistant to administer vaccinations and drenches under instruction from a
veterinarian and to act as liaison between the village and DRTM on animal
health matters. Fifty would be trained during the life of the project at
courses organized by the Department of Extension Services. These assistants
would be paid for by selected animal insurance cooperativesl./ through the
surplus from animal insurance funds paid by participating farmers. By this
means cost recovery for animal health services would be achieved.
4.22     Analytical services to the Regional Veterinary Officers would be
reinforced by the operation of two laboratories which would be constructed and
equipped under the project, each staffed by one veterinarian and two
assistants. Technical assistance provided under the project to help Regional
veterinarians organize animal health surveys and to establish diagnostic
services, would consist of one animal health specialist for three months in
the first year, followed by two months in each of the two succeeding years - a
total of seven months. At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
the project animal health service would be staffed and would operate as
described above, and that costs of the animal health service would be
recovered from farmers as described.
Milk Production
4 ^23    The project woulil inzludc construction cf about 60 two-stand, 29
four-stand, and 20 six-stand parlors, each run by an operator receiving about
Esc. 9,000/month (US $130) and trained by the Department of Extension
Services. Supervision of the parlor operations would be improved to the
extent that one supervisor from the DRTM would be appointed for each ten
parlors to ensure standards of hygiene and correct milking techniques.
Supervisors, who would be under the control of a veterinarian or dairy
technican, would each receive appropriate transport. Payment for the use of
parlors would be effected under the project through a levy based either on the
number of cows using the parlor or, as at present, on volume of milk.
Whenever possible cooperatives would own the parlors and be responsible for.
recovering costs. For those parlors not initially so taken up, the DRTM would
assume ownership until such time as a cooperative could be induced to buy the
parlor. Construction cost recovery would be over 15 years without interest.
At negotiations, Government gave assurances that DRTM would implement the
program of milking parlor development outlined and that costs of constructing,
operating and maintaining parlors would be recovered from participating
farmers through a levy as indicated above.
Milk Collection
4.24     Milk collection would be in the hands of special collection
cooperatives or polyvalent cooperatives which would receive credit under the
li Such cooperatives would be encouraged under the project.



-37-
project for purchase of trucks. Processors would collect from the main
cooperative depot, or directly from milking parlors or producers. Where
appropriate, cooperatives would also be encouraged to establish small
processing plants where distinctive cheeses could be made and sold on behalf
of members.
Animal Breeding
4.25     A.I. services would be reinforced under the project to allow for the
increased milk production programmed and to introduce Brown Swiss genetic
material into herds in the mountain areas. Approximately 14 additional
inseminators would be required in livestock development areas, and a new
station financed under the project would be established at Chaves to extract
and process semen. Whenever possible, inseminators would be employed by
cooperatives and responsible to the regional veterinary services for technical
standards and training. Fees to farmers would be set so as to cover the costs
of A.I. services. Two veterinarians would be appointed to supervise the A.I.
service and check on performance and any reproductive problems which may
arise. Technical assistance under the project would consist of an
insemination specialist for three months in the first year, followed by two
months in each of the succeeding years; a total of seven months.
Supply of Animals
4.26     Tn-calE Friesian heifers would not be available in the region at a
sufficient rate to satisfy development plans for the expansion of dairy
production. About 4,400 would be needed on project farms of which some 3,200
would need to be imported during the project period, using international
tendering procedures carried out by DRTM veterinary services. At full
devtiopment about 10,000 .dditiuiial sheep would be required. Sound adult
females are not normally for sale, so that floclks would have to be built up by
the slowe-r method of purchasing female lambs.  About 4,000 should be available
for sale each year which would more than satisfy the demand to build new
flocks.
Cooperatives
4.27     Cooperatives would play a key role in the project by supplying inputs
(including fencing materials, fertilizer and seed), providing some sl:orage
facilities, collecting milk in some cases and undertaking some limited
processing, establishing and running milking parlors, and supplying some
veterinary and Al services. Under the project, management of cooperatives
would be improved by an intensive staff training program arranged by the
Department of Extension Services and repeated at intervals to ensure updating
of management methods.  Higher level training would be given to DRTM staff
charged with promoting cooperative development in the Region, by sending them
to observe and study cooperative activities in appropriate areas. Technical
assistance wou?Ld be provided by a cooperative specialist for two years.



-38-
4.28     Under the project the construction of centralized cooperative stores
would be encouraged in order to ease the bottlenecks in fertilizer and seed
supply.  Five cooperative stores, each of 400 m2, would be constructed in
the first two years. In addition, it is estimated that fifteen cooperatives
would want to construct five stores each, averaging 150 m2, at strategic
points within a pattern of villages for the storage of inputs and of some
outputs. Construction of stores would be financed by credit to the
cooperatives as described above (para 4.08). Cooperatives would play an
important role in relieving the transport restriction to farmers by purchasing
trucks to transport input and output goods, also with credit funds provided
under the project. A full study of input and produce transport needs of
cooperatives would be carried out by the project monitoring and evaluation
unit (para 4.29).
Monitoring, Evaluation, Studies and Reporting
4.29     Project monitoring would be conducted separately from evaluation by
the implementing agencies of the project but under the direction of the Rector
of the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro, thus maintaining adequate
independence in assessing performance but at the same time avoiding excessive
staffing. Coordination of these activities would be effected by the Deputy
Project Coordinator in conjunction with the University's Department of
Economics and Social Studies. Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared
by the Project Administration Unit (PAU) from project monitoring information
and forwarded to the Bank within two months after the end of each period. At
negotiations the Government gave assurances that a monitoring unit would be
maintained as above until project completion.
4.30     Project evaluation and research programs would be carried out under
the responsibility of the Project Coordinator by the University of
Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro. A Project Evaluation Unit (PEU) would be
established in the University which would be assisted by contracted
agricultural research consultants. Its staff would include a Research
Coordinator and three research staff, as well as six special Monitoring and
Evaluation Assistants and appropriate secretarial assistance. Specialist
staff of the University would from time to time assist with the undertaking of
specific studies. Technical assistance for the work of the PEU would be
provided by an internationally recruited specialist in monitoring and
evaluation to work for four months at the start of the project to assist in
establishing a working methodology and organization of the unit, and for two
to three months each year to assist with the preparation of reports and the
programming of studies.  Training for members of the PEU  would be provided in
the form of 36 months of fellowships for short course studies at overseas
institutions.  Including the technical assistance, the project provides about
Esc.28 million (US $400,000) for monitoring, evaluation and studies during the
implementation period.



-39-
4.31     The PEU would have specific responsibility for undertaking general
socio-economic surveys, including the baseline surveys, and research studies
to provide information about the rural society and economy of the
Tras-os-Montes region.  This would include studies of subjects such as labor
use; household budgets; saving, credit and investment practices; adoption of
agricultural innovations; marketing of produce; nutrition practices; use of
health services; attitudes to education and train:ing; problems of
transportation and communication; access to government and municipal services;
and social and economic effects of migration both within and outside the
region. The major principles adopted for these surveys would be simple
design, rapidity of analysis and relevance to specific information needs for
project management. Evaluations of the project would be conducted at t:he end
of the project's third year (mid term) and fifth year, drawing upon alL
materials collected by the PEU through its monitoring and research
activities.  IFADAP would prepare a completion report not later than six
months after project completion and would submit it to the PEU who wouLd
prepare the full project completion report and submit it to the Bank not less
than seven months after project completion. At negotiations, Government gave
assurances that a Project Evaluation Unit, adequately staffed, would be
established within six months after the date of the Loan Agreement, that an
internationally recruited specialist would be engaged to give technical
assistance, that adequate budgetary resources would be allocated for
monitoring activities in all implementing agencies of the project, that
monitoring, studies, evaluation and completion reports would be carried out
and submitted as described above, and that summary reports of the annual
programming meetings would be sent to the Bank within three months following
each of these meetings.



-40-
V. FARM MODELS, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
Farm Incomes With and Without the Project
5.01     The effects of the project on agriculture have been examined using
five farm models, which deal, respectively, with the High Valleys, Mountain,
Planalto Mirandes, Terra Quente and Douro zones. The agrictLltural proposals
underlying these models are discussed in Ch.III above, and the cash flows
projected in farm budgets are presented in Annex 1, Tables 10-14. Before the
project, incomes are likely to decline on farms growing seed potatoes, and on
vineyards where the yields of aging vines not replaced would diminish over
time. The project would raise incomes on farms by from 40% to more than 200%,
and the range would then be from an estimated Esc.150,000 to about
Esc.400,000. Financial rates of return on the proposed farm investments and
changes in technology are estimated to range from 19% to 37%. The farm models
have also been used to derive credit terms appropriate for their likely
investment and cash flows -- these credit terms are outlined in Ch.IV.
Cost Recovery
5.02     Investments relating to agriculture would be mostly carried out with
credit financing, for which recovery of cost would be nearly complete. For
the rehabilitated irrigation schemes, farmers would themselves operate the
schemes and carry out maintenance. To establish the principle of
participation in financing capital costs, beneficiary farmers would be
required to pay for unskilled labor hired during construction or provide their
own labor, which is estimated to be 20% of total investment costs. A study of
farm models shows that it would be difficult to require a higher contribution
to capital costs than this in view of the fact that farmers must make
substantial further investments on their properties to take advantage of the
schemes. At negotiations, the Government gave an assurance regarding this
cost recovery.
Non-Agricultural Component
5.03     For water supply and sewage schemes, municipalitieEs would recover the
full costs of operation and maintenance by means of charges, while for other
social infrastructure, municipalities would set aside funds in their annual
budgets adequate to cover expected operation and maintenance costs. Since the
municipalities would be borrowing to finance at least part of their
investmernts in water supply and sewage, roads, streets, and schools under the
project, they would make provisions for repaying these loans, and for
servicing the debt under terms described in Ch.IV. In order to allow adequate
funds for proper maintenance of facilities, municipalities wzould be required
to arrange their borrowings in such a way that future allocations from the
central budget were not used entirely for debt service. At negotiations,
Government gave assurances that municipalities would levy charges to recover,
in full, operation and maintenance costs of water supply and sewage schemes,



-41-
and that debt financing of infrastructural works would take into account the
need to ensure sufficient funds in their operating budgets to maintain
adequately alr the facilities constructed. Given that municipalities in the
past often lacked adequate cost recovery schemes, that their income from taxes
is limited and taking into account the generally low income level oi the
region, these cost recovery arrangements are considered adequate.



-42-
VI. PRODUCTION, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Crops
6.01     Cropping Pattern.  The major changes in cropping pattern under the
project would be replacement of cereals in marginal areas, potatoes, and
traditional fallows with various forage crops, and temporary or permanent
pastures for livestock production. In the irrigated areas a two-year
potatoes/cereal rotation would give way to a four-year rotation including
potatoes, cereals and two years of temporary ryegrass/clover. In the Planalto
Mirandes zone, in addition to forages and pastures, some vetch would be grown
for seed, while in the Terra Quente zone, additional improved pasture would be
sown under existing olive trees. The proposed changes in cropping pattern are
based on extensive experience under similar conditions in other countries of
the Mediterranean basin, as well as some experience elsewhere in Portugal. In
the Douro zone, the establishment of new areas of vines would take place in
the context of a very long tradition of grape production, although the
proposed development features a higher degree of mechanization than the
average currently prevailing, in order to deal with the difficulty of
obtaining farm labor, due to migration of workers from the region.
6.02     Yields.  Without -the project it is estimated that there would be some
decline in the yields of seed potatoes, and of grapes from existing vines.
Regarding the former, there has been some evidence of an increase in
rejections of samples of potatoes for seed as a result of nematode infection,
and unless the rotation is changed as proposed this trend could accelerate.
There is also some evidence that the age structure of vines in the Douro zone
is increasing, with an ever higher proportion greater than 25 years old, since
farmers have not been replacing vines at an acceptable rate. On farms
affected by the project these trends would be reversed for both seed potatoes
and grapes. Yields for both are adapted from judgements of field personnel
who have studied these crops over a long period of time, and from such
research results as do exist. For grapes, assumed yields are fractionally
above the estimated average yields currently obtained.  Although yields are
also projected to increase somewhat for wheat, rye, and comnercial potatoes,
these would not be sufficient to overcome the reductions in areas of these
three crops, so that production would fall with the project. The yield
assumptions, which would be attained only from seven to ten years hence for
most crops, are conservative.
6.03     Production.  It is expected that total annual production of wheat,
rye, and commercial potatoes would fall under the project, respectively by
about 1,200 tons, 1,200 tons, and 12,000 tons, because of the considerable
reduction in areas planted to these crops. The production of seed potatoes
would also fall somewhat from the present level3 but compared with the likely
fall without the project there would be a positive incremeni: to production.
An additional 1,300 tons of vetch seed would be available for sale, and
production of grapes would rise by about 9,900 tons, yielding an additional
7.3 million liters of port wine (an increase of about 13% over Douro
production in the latest year).



-43-
Livestock Production
6.04     Type and Numbers of Livestock.  At full development, dairy production
would be dominated by cross-bred cattle (Local Breed x Brown Swiss) in the
Mountain zone, aLnd by Friesian cattle in the High Valley zone. It is
estimated that there would be about 4,800 additional milking cows in each of
the two zones. In the Planalto Mirandes zone, there would be an additional
3,600 beef breeding cows by full development, based on the local Mirandesa
breed crossed sometimes with Charolais. There would be an estimated
additional 11,500 milking ewes in the Terra Quente zone, based on the local
Churro breed.
6.05     Yields.  As cross-breeding with Brown Swiss cattle takes effect, milk
yields for cows in the Mountain zone would increase from around 500 kg to
about 3,400 kg per lactation, while at full development yields for Friesian
cows would be around 3,700 kg per lactation. It has been assumed that milk
yields for sheep would rise from 25 kg to 30 kg per ewe under the project and
that adult sheep would produce about 4 kg wool. Lamb sales would represent
about 10 kg live weight per ewe and total meat 20 kg liveweight per ewe.
6.06     Production.  At full development it is estimated that an additional
35,000 tons of cow's milk and about 350 tons of ewe's milk would be
forthcoming in the region. This would represent: a substantial (perhaps three
fold) increase in production over the present, although full development is
not expected to be reached for two decades, and incremental producticon of
17,000 tons of imilk is forecast for 1990.  In addition to milk, the project is
expected to give rise to incremental livestock sales of about 10,000 calves
p.a. and 2,100 cull cows. There would be an additional 225 tons of sheep meat
on a liveweight basis, and 42 tons of wool produced.
Marketing of Project Output
6.07     Incremental production resulting from the project would be cLominated
by three products: milk, meat, and grapes for port wine. Additional milk
marketed would be collected mainly from cooperaltive milking parlors and
processed in existing plants outside the region, in a new plant which the
Cachao organization is setting up in a site yet to be determined but probably
Macedo de Cavaleiros. Equipment has been purchased and construction is
expected to commence in mid 1982.  Milk would also be processed in the
existing cheese-making plant in the Cachao compLex, which is working at less
than half of capacity. Although a significant proportion of the additional
milk and milk products would be consumed in the region, where per capita
consumption is very low compared even with the Low average for Portugal as a
whole, it is very likely that some of the dairy products would also be sold in
other nearby regions, or to the city of Porto.
6.08     Most of the additional meat would be sold in the form of livTe animals
(both cattle and sheep) to private dealers at local markets*- Under existing
systems these would be transported to slaughterhouses in the main cit:ies of
Portugal. A decision has been made, however, to proceed with completion of a
large slaughter facility at Cachao, which is already more than half i-inished.
Construction is expected to be completed by early 1983, and when this has been
achieved the slaughtering capacity available woiuld be more than



-44-
adequate for the entire Tras-os-Montes region. No problems are foreseen with
the marketing of meat, for which there is a growing demand in Portugal.
6.09     Additional grapes for port wine production would be sold either
through cooperatives to the Casa do Douro (which accounts for about 40% of
wine production in the region) or directly to one of the many well established
international port wine houses represented in the area. Most of the wine is
transported by road to Porto and exported, mainly to the UK, Germany, and
France. Because additional production estimated to be forthcoming from the
project is well within the expansion of export potential foreseen by the Port
Wine Institute, no problems of marketing are foreseen.
6.10     Smaller quantities of additional seed potatoes and vetch seed would
be forthcoming from the project. Since the region is a traditional producer
of potato seed, marketing channels (through cooperatives) are well established
and the projected production is not likely to place any undue strains on the
system. Vetch for seed would be a new crop in the area, but there is a strong
and increasing demand in Portugal for the seed, most of which is at present
imported. Output from the project would represent only a fraction of the
potential demand and would substitute for imports.
Benefits of Infrastructure
6.11     Although for the most part they cannot be readily quantified, it is
anticipated that substantial benefits would accrue to the rural population of
the region from the provision of infrastructure under the project. The rural
roads have not been regarded as being linked directly with agricultural
production on the particular farms which may become beneficiaries of this
project, although in many cases they would be expected to benefit agriculture
in the communities for which they were constructed - through reduction in
costs of transportation, improved access at all times of year, and
stimulation of the interchange of ideas and information. Other benefits of
the roads would include access to schools and particularly to health
facilities, and a lessening of the general cultural isolation of village
communities. The works to be done on village streets would substantially
improve the living environment for many communities, particularly during the
winter months, and would also contribute to improved health standards. The
village water supply and sewage schemes proposed would make a very important
contribution to improved health and better living standards. Recorded
consumption of water per head in the region is said to be less than one third
the national average, while enteric and diarrheal conditions lead to death at
rates considerably above the national average. The health facilities provided
under the project, although modest in total amount, would fill some important
gaps, and the impact of all health programs would be enhanced by an emphasis
in the ongoing adult education system on health and nutrition education.
School classrooms would replace existing facilities which in some cases are
decidedly substandard.  As a package, too, the infrastructural components are
likely to have an impact by beginning to erase the image of this region as one
which is permanently depressed, overlooked, and isolated.



-45-
Beneficiaries
6.12     The main beneficiaries of the project would be the approximately
6,200 farm families whose incomes would be raised, at full development, by
proportions ranging from 40% to 200%. From their present farms, these
families earn incomes which are probably in the region of Esc.15,000 to
Esc.35,000 per capita p.a., with some perhaps as low as Esc.10,000 per
capita. For comparison, the Relative Poverty level of income in Portugal is
estimated to be Esc.25,000 per capita. With the project, incomes for farm
families are projected to rise as outlined in Annex 1, Tables 10-14. Incomes
would reach Esc.135,000 to 170,000 in rainfed areas, and Esc.340,000 to
400,000 in irrigated areas and on vineyards. Per capita incomes from farms
would then be in the range of Esc.27,000 to 67,000 (which at current exchange
rates would be US $390 and $960 respectively). In addition to the above, it
is estimated that over 120,000 persons, or 20% of the population of the
region, would receive benefits, to various degrees and of different kinds,
from infrastructure investments under the project.
Economic Ralte of Return
6.13     The rates of return outlined below have been computed on the basis of
a large number of assumptions, of which some of the major ones are summarized
below:
(a)  the rate of exchange is Esc.70 = US $1.00;
(b) physical estimates of crop yields and cropping patterns, livestock
productivity, agricultural inputs, and phasing of agricultural
development over time, whose detaiLs are given in the Project File,
are as outlined in paras 6.01 to 6.06 (while full project effects for
crops are expected to have been realized by the 12th yeatr after
project commencement, livestock effects would continue to increase up
to about the 20th year);
(c)  without the project, yields of grapes from vines to be replaced are
projected to fall to zero over ten years, which implies that
production on existing farms would level off at about 26% below
current production;
(d) agricultural labor is priced at Esc.500 per day, equal t:o the current
daily wage for male laborers in the region;
(e)  prices for economic analysis (Annex 1, Table 8) are at the farmgate;
prices for cereals, fertilizers, and animal feed concentrates are
based on international projections for 1990; prices for potatoes and
most livestock products are based on current EEC prices, adjusted
downwards a little to allow for the possibility of a small drop in
real terms if agricultural policies of the EEC are rationalized; for
vetch seed and wool, local prices have been used; grape prices for
port wihe production are a little below current levels, assuming that
there would not be a significant fall in real terms; fuel prices
(also used in calculations of machinery contract charges) are based
on current international quotations;



-46-
(f) the project life is 35 years and project costs include physical
contingency allowances as outlined in Table 5;
(g) the investment and operating costs of roads and social infrastructure
(water supply, sewage, village streets, schools, and health
facilities) are omitted from the calculation, implying an assumption
that their (unquantified) benefits are at least equal to their costs;
(h) only direct increases in agricultural production are counted on the
benefits side, but the base rate of return calculation also includes
costs of the agricultural research, although most of its benefits
would accrue to subsequent phases of agricultural expansion in the
region.
6.14     Taking into account all of the above assumptions, the base rate of
return for the project is estimated to be 15.8%. Sensitivity analysis was
used to identify variables in which changes were most likely to reduce this
rate of return, and to test the stability of the rate of return to plausible
changes in assumptions. This analysis was done mainly using switching or
crossover values. The switching value for any variable is defined here as the
value for which the rate of return is reduced to below 12%. Alternatively
expressed, it is the value at which the Present Value of the project's net
benefit stream becomes zero, using a discount rate of 12%. Switching values
are discussed below along with other sensitivity measures:
(a) Milk. In order for the rate of return to drop beloiw 12%, the
economic value of milk would have to be about 70% less than the
values estimated. The possibility that milk yields per cow with the
project would reach only 960 to 1,100 kg per lactation (which is the
implication if only the yield assumption is changed) is extremely
unlikely. On the other hand, a reduction of 70% in the assumed
economic price of milk would bring its price to less than one half of
the current cost of reconstituting milk from New Zealand milk powder,
which is regarded as the absolute market floor. Such a huge fall in
the perceived economic value of milk is also extremely unlikely, in a
situation of strongly increasing demand. If, on the other hand, the
cost of reconstituted milk were to be used as a price assumption,
milk yields and production under the project would still have to be
54% lower than expected for the economic rate of return to be below
12%.
(b) Meat. Only if the value of meat production were to fall completely
to zero would the rate of return fall below 12%.
(c) Grapes. Only if the economic value of grapes were 69% lower than the
level assumed, would the rate of return be less than 12%, and to
reduce the rate of return below 10%, incremental grape production
would have to be reduced to zero. If the assumptiotn is made that
without the project, grape production would not decline but remain
steady, the rate of return would be 13.5% instead of 15.8%.



-47-
(d)  Irrigation Investment Costs.  The estimated investment in
rehabilitation would have to increase almost seven times before the
rate of return would fall below 12%. Delays in implementing the
construction program would tend to increase the costs of this
investment, but an increase in real terms of the magnitude suggested
is extremely unlikely.
(e)  On-Farm Investments,  Among the various investments planned, the rate
of return is most sensitive to the costs of vineyard establishment,
but even these would have to be more than three times as great as
estimated in order for the rate of return to be less than 12%.
Investment costs on irrigated farms wculd need to increase by 300% to
achieve the same adverse result.
(f)  Farm Operating Costs.  If the running costs on farms outside the
Douro zone were to increase by 160%, the project rate of return would
fall below 12%. This is regarded as most unlikely, but the most
important elements in this cost stream are a reduction in
expenditures on growing cereals and potatoes (because of reduced
areas) balanced against increased costs of growing forages (seeds,
fertiLizer and harvesting expenses) and purchase of concentrate feeds
for livestock. However, the costs of pasture seeds or fertilizer
would have to increase five or sixfold to raise the overall cost
stream by 160%, and the economic cost of concentrates would have to
increase more than four times.
(g)  Infrastructure.  If the full costs of investments in roads are
debited against agricultural benefits (without assuming any other
benefits for roads) the rate of returrn would be 13.1%, and if all
sociaL infrastructure is included with,out corresponding benefit, the
rate of return would be 9.8%.
6.15     As canl be seen from the above discussion, the rate of return is quite
robust to changes in the most important underlying assumptions.   The
project's benefits comprise mainly milk, meat, and wine production, and most
attention should be paid both to the production and the marketing of these
commodities. In spite of the fact that livestock production is mostly based
on pastures and forages, there remains a need ior concentrate purchases to
fill in gaps in feed balances. Because the economic costs of concentrates are
high, every attempt should be made to reduce st:ill further the need for them,
and some scope exists for this.
6.16     On farms, the main economic benefits of the project would be through
improving incomes, and this would be achieved, it is estimated, with, a
considerable decline in the need for hired labor and increased opportunities
for using family labor through more even spacing of labor demand throughout
the year.  Total labor use on farms would remain about the same with the
project, or possibly experience a modest declines There would be increased
opportunities for employment in the construction of infrastructure works,
amounting to an estimated 4,600 person years during the implementation period
of the project, and full-time employment for 50 persons on subsequent
operation and imaintenance. Professional, skilLed staff of government services
and municipalities would be considerably increased through the project.



-48-
Project Risks
6.17     The major risks foreseen in this project have to do with the planning
and construction of existing small irrigation schemes, the technical packages
available for agriculture and the rate at which farmers will adopt new
practices and farming systems. The agency responsible for the irrigation
schemes (DGHEA) has in the past moved rather slowly in projects of this type.
To deal with this, the planned irrigation development has been reduced and
phased to a level considered more likely to be within the capabilities of the
institutions involved.
6.18     Some of the technical proposals for agriculture, although well
developed and understood in other, similar areas, have not been tested
thoroughly in the Tras-os-Montes region. Because of this there remains some
risk that they may not perform up to full expectations in this region, that
special, unexpected problems may arise, or that some modifications may be
needed in particular elements of the technical packages, such as particular
varieties of pasture species. To attempt to meet this risk, and also to lay a
sound foundation for future agricultural advance in the region, the projett
provides for a particularly strong and well funded agricultural research.
component, together with a proposal for organizing this which is designed to
break through institutional problems which have made past agricultural
research efforts in Portugal less than adequate.
6.19     Because the project would be attempting to induce some fundamental
changes in farming systems which are rooted in long traditions, and because of
the nature of the farming population, characterized by a measure of
illiteracy, aging and isolation as described earlier, the task of inducing
these changes is a serious one. The project approaches this problem in three
ways. First, it provides for a well staffed extension service which would
operate on a "training and visit" basis and would work closely with the
agricultural research proposed under the project and with the ongoing Program
for Adult Educat~ion which operates strongly in the Tras-os-Montes. Second,
special credit terms are proposed to assist farmers in their investing in new
farming systems. Finally, the project is designed to be an initial
development effort in the region, in which less than 10% of the region's
farmers would be expected to participate initially.  Farmers would be
carefully chosen and screened by the DRTM so that those more willing to follow
through on the development and provide a good demonstration effect would be
those most likely to participate in the project.



-49-
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations agreements were reached and assurances obtained
on the principal issues referred to in Chapters III, IV and V. Main
assurances include the following:
(a)  The Government would establish the project organization structure as
agreed, insure staffing of all agencies involved in project
implementation with qualified staff in adequate numbers, employ
consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
train and otherwise strengthen the technical services and credit
institutions;
(b)  The Government would insure contributions by municipalities, and by
farmers and cooperatives to the financing of their investments of at
least 20% and 15%, respectively. The remainder would be provided as
agreed under the financing plan;
(c)  Municipalities would recover operation and maintenance costs of water
supply and sewage facilities through charges on their users;
cooperatives would recover milking parlour costs through levies on
production;
(d)  The Government would ensure the entry of livestock required by the
projlect; and
(e)  The Government would raise the PBI's credit ceilings to encourage
their participation in the project and ensure that ICIM credit
ceilings do not impede their ability to extend credit for the
non--agricultural rural infrastructure investments.
7.02     Conditions of Effectiveness
The following would be conditions oi. effectiveness of the loan:
(a) that an Agency Agreement had been executed between Government
and IFADAP;
(b) that not less than two PBI Loan Agreement had been executed on
behalf of IFADAP and PBIs; and
(c)  that interest rates for Investment Project had been established
at a constant level of not less than 14.5%.
7.03     Agreements having been reached on the above conditions, l:he project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$51 million on standard terms.  The Borrower
would be the Government of the Republic of Portugal.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
PORTUGAL                                   Table I
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAl. DEVELOP,MIENT PROJECT
Area and Population of Project Region
No. of    Popul]ation   Area
Agrarian Zone             Concelho                   Villages      (1978)       (km2)
Alto Tamiega              Chaves                       128         51,412        600
Montalegre                   110         21,963       782
Boticas                       39          9,359       315
Va]pacos                    101          29,311       539
Vila Pouca de Aguiar          84         22,594       419
462        134,639    2,655
Terra Fria                Braganca                     122         39,042    1,129
Miranda do Douro              34         10,664       484
Vimioso                       20          8,923       474
Vinhais                       96        .17,917       703
272         76,546    2,790
Terra Quente              Alfandega da Fe               30          8,685       311
Carrazeda de Ansiaes         47          12,114       282
Mirandela                     93         30,841       674
Miacedo de Cavaleiros         70         23,135       696
Vila Flor                     27         10,493       267
267         85,268    2,230
Vale Do Douro Norte       Vila Real                    133         50,066       360
Alijo                         49         20,420       286
Sabrosa                      35           9,144      i179
Murca                         32          9,064       171
Santa Marta de Penaguiao   38            11,801        69
Mesao Frio                    21          6,347        27
Peso da Regua                46          23,573        94
354        130,415    1,186
Vale do Douro Sul         Lamego                        78         33,192       164
Santa Joao da Pesqueira    23            10,495       266
Tabuaco                       21          8,999       141
Moimenta da Beira            41          13,197       219
Resende                       67         15,147       118
Cinfaes                      113         25,389       239
Arimamar       ,              26          9,528       112
Tarouca                       29          9,502       103
Penedono                      18          4,574       125
Sernancelhe                   26          7,790       221
442        137,813    1,708
Vale Do Douro Superior  Freixo de Espada a Cinta    6               6, 312      290
Mogz.douro                   5.9         16,071       756
Torre de Moncorvo             41         15,753       478
Vila Nova de Foz Coa          19         11,940       381
T'5         50,076    1,905
TOTALS                                               1,9.92       614,757   12,474
April 30, 1982



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cultivated and Irrigated Areas
Zone             Sub-Zone                             l'otal Cultivated        Total Irrigated
Total Area          Area  /1                  Area
(ha)           (ha)       %            (ha)
Mountain Zone   Barroso/Alturas          109,700       18,900      17.2        10,623      56.2
Terra Fria              183,200      40,100       21.9        6,312      15.7
High Valleys    A:Lto Tamega             113,900       29,200      25.6         6,136      21.0
Maiao/Padrela            95,100       19,700      20.7         7,921     40.2
Warm Zone        Terra Quente            194,800       59,500      30.5         2,667       4.5
Douro Superior         143,200       41,700       29.1         1,248      3.0
Plateau          Planalto Mirandes       171,400       74,500      43.5         1,217       1.6
Douro Valley    B,aixo/Cima Corgo        133,800       20,100      15.0         6,500     32.3
TOTAL                                  1,145,100      303,700      26.5        42,624      14.0
/1 This is the area in annual crops or fallows.
April 30, 1982



-52-
?ORTUGAL                                                           ANNEX I
TRAS-OS-KONTES RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT                                             Table 3
Cost Eatimates
Eac. million                        US$. Million                  % Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total         Local     Fore         Total          Exchange
A. IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                 271        57           328          3.9         0.8         4.7
Physical Contingencies                     40         8            48          0.6         0.1         0.7
Price Escalation                       228        18           246          3.2        0.3         3.5
TOTAL                                  3                                                                           13
B. ON-FARM INVESTMENTS
Livestock Shelters                        166        84           250          2.4         1.2         3.6
Livestock                                  65       287           352          0.9        4.1          5.0
Drainage                                   17         -            17          0.2         -           0.2
Pasture Establishment                      43        52            95          0.6         0.7         1.3
Fencing/Other                              41         5            46          0.6        0.1          0.7
Vineyard Establishment                    457       360           817          6.5         5.2        11.7
Farm Machinery                             77       210           287          1.1         3.0        4.1.
Subtotal                              8T6                   1l;          1=          17          27,7
Price Escalation                       725      303          1028         10.4         4.3        14.7
TOTAL                               1,591    1,301          2,892         22.7        18.6        41.3             45
C. AGRICULTURAL ORGANIZATION
Extension                                 131        13           144          1.9         0.2         2.1
Veterinary/A.I.                           106        10           116          1.5         0.2         1.7
Milk Collection - Parlors                  47        93           140          0.7         1.3         2.0
Cooperatives - Stores                      60        30            90          0.9         0.4         1.3
- Trucks                     30       83            113         0.4          1.2        1.6
Agricultural Credit Coop Union             29         3            32          0.4         -           0.4
Subtotal                              403       232           635          5.8         3.3         9.1
Price Escalation                      276        53           329          3.9         0.7         4.6
TOTAL                                  679      285           *964         9.7         4.0        13.7            29
D. PROj.BLDGS. ,EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES
Vehicles                                   19        90           109          0.2         1.3         1.5
Houses and Furnniture                     106        54           160          1.5        0.8          2.3
Equipment for Mach. and Soil Cons.          5        15            20          0.1        0.2          0.3
Livestock Bldg. (Vet. Lab. and AI)         11         8            19         0.2          0.1         0.3
Seed Laboratory                             I         -             I          -           -          -
Equipment for Coop Union                    1         2             3          -           -           _
Subtotal                               143      169           312          2.0         2.4         4.4             53
Price Escalation                        79       31            110          1.1        0.5          1.6
TOTAL                                  222      200           422           3.1         2.9         6.0
E. NON AGRICULTURAL INVESTMENTS
WATER SUPPLY                              593       300           893          8.4        4.3         12.7
Price Escalation                      422        80           502          6.0         1.1         7.1
TOTAL                               1,015       380         1,395         14.4          5.4       19.8            27
SEWAGE                                    502      254            756          7.2        3.6        10.8
Price Escalation                       357       68           425          5.1         1.0         6.1
TOTAL                                           321                        1277           ;       lW7      1       27
RURAL ROADS                               545       275           820          7.8        4.0        11.8
Physical Contingencies                  82       39           121           1.1        0.5         1.6
Price Escalation                       398      113           511           5.7        1.6         7.3
TOTAL                                1,025      427         1;M            lr77        T71        2T7              29
VILLAGE STREETS                           272        81           350
Physical Contingencies                     41        11
Price Escalation                       165        30           195          2.4        0.4         2.8
TOTAL                                  478      122           600          6.9         1.7         8.6            20
HEALTH PROGRAM                            113        68           181          1.6         1.0        2.6
Physical Contengencies                     17         9            26          0.3         0.1         0.4
Price Escalation                        77        17            94          1.1        0.2         1.3
TOTAL                                  207       I2            31T           0         1                           30
SCHOOLS                                    98       46            144          1.4        0.7         2.1
Physical Contingencies                     15         6            21          0.2        0.1          0.3
Price Escalation                        59        11           70          0.8         0.2         1.0
TOTAL                                  177       73           215          7.7         *170        __              29
F. PROJECT ORGANIZATIONS
Project Administration                     23         3            26          0.3         -           0.3
Monitoring and Evaluation                  17         1            18          0.2         _           0.2
Subtotal                                40        4            44          0.5         0.1         0.6
Price Escalation                        27         1            28         0.4         -           0.4
TOTAL                                   67         5            72         0.9         0.1         1.0            10
G. STUDIES/RESEARCH & TECHNICAL ASST.
Studies - Groundwater, Olive
Development, Irrigation                   84        98           182          1.2         1.4        2.6
Research and Trials                       169        80           249          2.4         1.1         3.5
Technological Assistance                    9        58            67          0.1         0.8        0.9
Fellowships                                 8        11            19          0.1         0.2         0.3
Subtotal                               270      247            517          3.8        3.5         7.3
Price Escalation                       147        52           199          2.1         0.8         2.9
TOTAL                                  T7i      299            716          5.9        4.3        10.2             36
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        4,116    2,731          6,847         58.7        39.0        97.7
Physical Contingencies                    195        73           268          2.8         1.0         3.8
Price Escalation                    2,961       773         3,734         42.3        11.0        53.3
TOTAL                                7,272    3,577        10,849        103.8        51.0       154.8             33
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding - May 4, 1982



-53 -                                      ANNEX 1
Table4
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOIPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List
Unit  Price l/Total Coat (Esc. million)
Item                                      Number  (Esc.l,000)   Local    Forin    Total
A. FARM MACHINERY'
Wheel Tractors (60-70 HP)                 80        1150        28.4      63.8       92.2
Wheel Tractors (35 HP)                   100         825        25.4      57.1       82.5
Moldboard Plough (2F)                     80          80         2.0       4.5        6.5
Chisel Plough                            100         100         3.1       6.9       10.0
Disc Harrow                              180          33         1.9       4.0        5.9
Scarifier                                180          33        1.9        4 .0       5.9
Trailer                                  180         165         9.2      20.6       29.8
Seed Drill                                30         290         2.6       65.1       8.7
Mower                                     80         150         3.7       ;9.2      11.7
Pickup Baler                              30         600        6.1       13.7       19.8
Spare Parts (20%                                            16.7       37.7       54.4
Subtotal                                                      101.0      226.6      327.6
B. EXTENSION SUPPORT UNITS
Crawler Tractor (75 HP)                    1      3,700          1.2       2.5       -3.7
Wheel Tractor (60-70 HP)w.attachment    1          1,200         0.3       0.9        1.2
Truck                                      1      2,000         0.6        1.4        2.0
Machinery Demonstration Equipment        Sum                     3.7       8.5       12.2
Spare Parts (20%)                                            1.2        2.7        3.9
Subtotal                                                         7.0      16.0       23.0
C. VEHICLES
Cars                                      20         695         2.8      1.1.1      13.9
Pickups                                   25         700         3.6      1.3.9      17.5
Small Cars                               112         615       14.2       54.8       69.0
Motorcycles                               11         170         0.3       1.6        1.9
Trucks (7.5 t)                            29       1,740        15.6     '34.8       50.4
Trucks (10 t)                             25       2,140        16.4      37.1       53.5
Tanker (8 t)                               2       2,250         1.4        3.0       4.5
Spare Parts (20%)                                           10.8       31.4       42.1
Subtotal                                                        65.1     187.7      252.8
D. BUILDING EQUIPMENT
Equipment for Milking Parlors            Sum                    21.7      133.3     105.0
Equipment for Laboratories               Sum                     1.4        2.8       4.2
Equipment for Health Facilities          Sum                     4.8      L8.8       23.6
Equipment for School Classrooms          Sum                    11.4       4.7       16.1
Equipment for Credit Coop.Union          Sum                     0.5       2.3        3.1
Subtotal                                                       40.1      111.9      152.0
G8AND TOTAL                                                       213.2      542.2     755.4
1/ Prices updated to June 1982 and unit prices rounded                      - -            -
to relate to total costs.
April 30, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL D      0VELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Studies
1983                  1984                   1985                    1986                   1987                 TOTALS
Person      Esc.       Person      Esc.       Person    Esc.         Person      Esc.       Person      Esc.      Person       Eac.
Years    million      Years    million       Years    million        Years    million       Years    million    Years        million
Agricuitural Research          1.00       9.3         1.00       9.3                           -- --                                              2.00        18.6
Animal lealth                  0.25       2.2         0.17       1.6         0.17      1.6           --         --           --         --        0.59         5.4
Artificial Insemination        0.25       2.2         0.17       1.6         0.17      1.6                      --           --         --        0.59         5.4
Management Training 1/         1.00       9.3         1.00       9.3         1.00      9.3           --         --          --          --        3.00        27.9
Monitoring/Evaluation          0.33       3.0         0.25       2.4         0.25      2.4          0.17       1.7          --         __        1.00          9.5
Subtotal                  2.83      26.0         2.59      24.2         1.59    14.9           0.17       1.7            _          _
Studies 2/
Groundwater                    0.40      10.7         0.80      21.4         1.20    32.3           1.60      43.0                     -         4.00        107.4
Olive Development Study        0.90       5.8         2.10      13.5          --        --           --         --          --         --         3.00        19.3
Chaves Irrigation               --         --         3.00      27.5         3.00    27.5            --         -                                6.00         55.0
Subtotal                  1.30      16.5         5.90      62.4         4.20    59.8           1.60      43.0 -                           1300        181,7
GRAND TOTAL 3/                 4.13      42.50        8.49      86.6         5.79    74.7           1.77      44.7            _         -       20.18        248.5
1/  Credit, cooperatives and concelhos.                                                                                                                                U
2/  The costs of these studies include items other than professional consulting time.
3/  Consulting time (in person years) includes both foreign and locally recruited specialists.
April 30, 1982



55 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 6
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal-Year              Cumulative Disbursement at End of Semester
and Semester                                  US $ million
FY 1983
December 31, 1982                                  (.8
June 30, 1983                                       1.7
FY 1984
December 31, 1983                                  4.1
June 30, 1964                                       6.4
FY 1985
December 31, 1984                                 10.7
June 30, 1985                                     14.9
FY 1986
December 31, 1985                                 20.7
June 30, 1986                                     26.1
FY 1987
December 31, 1986                                  32.4
Jurne 30, 1987                                     38.2
FY 1938
December 31, 1987                                 42.7
June 30, 1988                                     46.5
FY 1989
December 31, 1938                                 51.0
April 30, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Phasing of Incremental Project Production /1
Unit       1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Vetch Seed       metric ton      20         80        200       440        690        960        990      1,050      1,080      1,140     1,170      1,220       1,270
Milk /2              "          __         490      1,720     3,700      6,300      9,200    12,700    15,200    17,000    19,300    21,200    23,000    24,700
Cull Cows /3        No.         --          30        105       250        450        780      1,200     1,800      2,200      2,600      3,000      3,100      3,200
Calves /3           No.                    -_         --         190       800      1,710      3,200     4,600       5,900      6,900      7,560      7,700      7,900
Ewe's Milk      metric ton    --             4         17        45         90        160        250       310         340       345        345        345         345
Sheep Meat
(live weight)                   --           1         4         13         33         63       110        160        210        250        240        225        225
Wool                           I_            1          3          8        15         25         38         40         42         42         42         42         42
Grapes /4                     (170)      (160)     (310)      (510)      (580)    (350)        1,560     4,100      7,200    10,000    12,200    13,300    13,500
/1  In addition to the production increases outlined in this table, it is projected that commercial potato production would decline by about 12,000 tons
by 1994, and rye and wheat each by about 1,000 tons. Although production of seed potatoes would also decline, it is estimated that the decline would
be even greater without the project, so a net increment is credited to the project.
/2  It is projected that production of milk would continue to increase, even beyond 1994, reaching an estimated 35,000 tons by around the year 2,000.
/3  Numbers of cull cows would level off at about 2,200 p.a. some years later than 1994, while numbers of calves sold would increase still further, to
about 10,400 p.a.
/4  Total production of grapes on project farms would reach an estimated 24,000 tons by 1994.  The increment attributed to the project is based on the
assumption that without the project, there would be a steady decline in yields from aging vines not replaced. The negative increments in years 1982
to 1987 reflect the period during which vines are being reestablished and coming to maturity.
April 30, 1982
9-X



-. ~ 57         ~ANNEX 1
Table 8
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs
for Farm Models
Price for Financial       Price for Economic
Analysis      1/         Analysis
Item                Unit       Eac.           US        Esc.          US $
Wheat                       metric ton 12,300             234      11,000          210
Rye                             "       11,800           225       10,600         202
Potato                          "       10,000           190        6,000         114
Vetch                           "       50,000           952       50,000         952
Grapes (for Port wine)          "       40,000           762       40,000         762
Meat
-Beef (carcass weight)          "       190,000        3,619      175,000       3,333
-Mutton (  "      "   )         "       220,000        4,191      200,000       3,810
-Beef    (live weight)          "       104,000        1,981       95,000       1,810
-Mutton  (  "    f)                     110,000        2,095      100,000       1,905
Milk - Cow (3.7% fat)                    14,000          267       14,000         267
- Sheep                    "        30,000          571       30,000         571
Livestock
-Calves (3 months)            animal    17,000           324       15,600         297
-Calves (6 months)                       25,000          476       Z3,000         438
-Heifers (1-2 years)            "        50,000          952       46,000         876
-Cows                                    45,000          857       41,000          781
Wool                        metric ton  65,000         1,238       65,000       1,238
Fertilizers
Urea (46:0:0)                   H         6,400           122      16,000          305
-Ammonium Nitrate
(20.5:0:0)                   "         3,600           69        7,100         135
Superphosphate
(0:18:0)                     "         4,800           91        5,800         111
Compound Fertilizer
(15:15:15)                   "         6,000          114       12,500         238
N                                        17,600          335       34,700          661
P205                            "        15,600          297       32,000         610
Lime                            "         1,000            19       1,000           19
Animal Feed Concentrate         "        10,000           191      12,000          229
Seeds
Wheat                           "        14,800           282      13,200          251
Rye                             "         8,000           152       7,200          137
Potato                          "        15,000          286       15,000          286
Vetch                                    80,000        1,524       80,000       1,524
Machinery Costs
Diesel Fuel                 100 liters   1,750             33       1,475           28
Gasoline                                  4,100            78       1,500           29
Cultivation Contract           hour         500            10         475            9
Combine Harvesting              "         1,500            29       1,425           27
Labor                           day         500            10          500          10
1/ Prices are June 1981. Farm models are based cn these prices.
April 30, 1982



PORTUCAL
TRAS-oS-MONTES RVMJr1WELOPMENT PROJECT
Econowic Benefit and Cost Streams 1/
(Eec. Million)
1982   1983   1984        1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991            1992   1993    1994   1995-2016
Benefits
Livestock                                7       4      26        85      105      164      254       254      448      674       741     759      797        930
Vineyards                               (7)    (6)   (12)        (21)    (23)    (14)        62      165       289      400       487    532       540        540
Total                                          2      14        64       82      150       119               737   1,074    1,228  1,291 rT   =1         T37M
Costs (A)
Irrigation Rehabilitation               19      57      57        76       76        -
Investments on Livestock Farms          19      61    109        158      194      390
Investments on Vineyards                28      89    147        204      246      505
Tractors and Implements                 20      30      49        50       50         -        -        -        -        -         -       -                   -
Project Buildings, Vehicles             51      66      52        42        2
Ag. Research                            56      44      44        30       23         -            -                  -                      -        -
Milk Collection                         23      43      45        62        19       70        -        -        -                  -        -        -         -
Op. Costs - Livestock Farms              4       7      15        23       56       85      100       118      125      ISS       155     155      155        155
- Vineyards                   -       -       -         -        3        7       23       37       52        75        75      75       75         75
Ag. Administration/Marketing            29      52      60        56       56        59      59        59       59       59        59      59        59        S9
Irrigation O&U                           -       1       2         5        7        9       12       14        14       14        14      14        14        14
Project Administration                   4       4       4         4        4         4        3        2                           -
Total                             253    454    584         710      736   1 129       197      230      250      303              ii
Coats (B)
Roads                                   87    156    210         210       37         -        -        -        -        -         -
Social Investments2/                   264    452    510         459      244        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Infrastructure O&M                      11      21      30        43       46       47       47       35        25       15        15      15      1L          15
Total                  -         362    629    770          712     327        47       47       35       25       15         15      15 
1/ June 1981 prices.
2/ Includes water supply, sewage, village streets, health facilities and schools.
June 1981



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow Projections ('000 Esc)
Model 1 - 6 ha High Valley Rehabilitation Irrigation
Without      Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year             Year    Year    Year
Project        1       2        3       4        5        6        7        8        9         10       11      11-20
Cash Inflow
Returns                          367       340       366     416      435      501      521      549      549      549       549       549    549
Own Funds                         --        20        30       --      --                              --       --            --            --
Long-term loans                   --       111       165      -
Short-term loans                  56        53       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41        41        41      41
Subtotal                    423       524       602      457      476      542      562      590      590      590       590       590    590
Cash Outflow
Investment                        --       131       195      --       --            --       --      --       --        --        __   __
Operating Costs                  193       177       161      170     170      170      170      170      170      170       170       170    170
Subtotal                    193       308       356      170      170      170      170      170      170      170       170       170    170
Surplus Cash for Debt Service   230          216       246      287      306     372      392      420      420      420       420       420    420
Loan Repayments
Annuity long-term loan            --        --        --       --       --      100     100      100      100      100       100        100     --
Short-term loan                   56.       53        41      41       41       41       41       41       41       41        41        41      41
Net Cash Flow
Annual                           174       163       205      246     265      231      251      279      279      279       279       279    379
Cumulative                       174       337       542      788   1,053   1,284   1,535   1,814   2,093   2,372    2,651    2,930
Incremental Cash Flow               --      (142)    (164)       72       91      157     177      205      205      205       205       205    205
for Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return. 37.3%
Terms;  Loan Amount 276 (422 is outstanding balance after capitalization of interest during disbursement and grace periods).
2 years grace
7 years iepaymeatt 
i   14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and grace periods                                                                                       o
May 6, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow Projections ('000 Esc)
Model 2 - 5.1 ha Mountain Rehabilitation Irrigation
Without      Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year            Year    Year    Year        Year
Project        1       2        3       4                 6        7        8       9          10      11       12       13-20
Cash Inflow
Returns                          317      316       298      299      256      234      280     308      344      365       401       419      437       459
*Own Funds                        _-         3        -_       __       17        _      __       __       __       __
Long-term loans                   --       19        --       --       98       --       --      --       --       --        --        --       --        --
Short-term loans                 32        39        34       34       27       27      27       27       27       27        27        27       27        27
Subtotal                    349       377       332      333      398     261      307      335      371      392      428        446     464        486
Cash Outflow
Investments                      --        22        --       --      115      --       --       --       --       --        --        __       __        __
Operating Costs                  119      109        96      103      101      118      118     118      118      118       118       118      118       118
Subtotal                    T19       131        96      103     216      118      118      118      118      118       118       118      118       118
t .
Surplus Cash for Debt Service   230         246       236      230      182      143      189     217      253      274       310       328      346       368
Loan Repayments
Annuity long-term loan            --       --        --        5        5        5        5        5       5*    57          57        57       57        __
Short-term loan                  32        39        34       34       27       27      27       27       27       27        27        27       27        27
Net Cash Flow
Annual                           198      207       202      191      150      111      157     185      221      190       226       244      262       341
Cumulative                       198      405       607      798      948   1,059   1,216   1,401   1,622   1,812    2,038    2,282   2,544
Incremental Cash Flow               --      (13)        4       (2)   (158)    (82)    (36)        (8)      28       49        85       103      121       143
for Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 18.6%
Terms:  1st Loan:  19 (20 is outstanding balance after capitalization of interest during disbursement and grace period)
1 year grace
5 years repayment
i - 14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and grace periods
2nd Loan;  98 (163 is outstanding balance after capitalization of interest during disbursement and grace period)
4 years grace
4 years repayment                                                                                                                                    X
i - 14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and grace periods
May 6, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow Projections ('000 Esc)
Model 3 - 20 ha Planalto Mirandes
Without     Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year           Year    Year
Project        1      2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9         10     11-20
Cash Inflow
Returns                         238      237       252      278     307      337     463      411      414      414      414       414
Own Funds                        --         8       27       --      --       --       --      --                --        --        --
Long-term loans                  --       46       151       --      --       --       --
Short-term loans                 28       56        56       5(     .56       56      56       56       56       56        56       56
Subtotal                   266       347       486     33'      363      393     519      467      470     470       470       470
Cash Outflow
Investments                      --       54       178       --      --       --      --       --       --       --       --        --
Operating Costs                 189      222       233      244     244      244      244     244      244      244       244      244
Subtotal                    189      276       311     24        24      244     2444      4       244     244       244       244
Surplus Cash for Debt Service    77          71      175       9C     119      149      275     223      226      226       226      226
Loan Repayments
Annuity long-term loan           --        --       --       --       --      --      102     100      100      100       100
Long-term loan                   28       56        56       56      56       56       56      56       56       56        56       56
Net Cash Flow
Annual                           49        15      119       34       63      93      119       67      70       70        70      .170
Cumulative                       49       64       183      217     280      373     492      559      629      679       769
Incremental Cash Flow              --       (88)    (208)    (15)      14       44      170     118      121      121       121      121
for Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:  22.6%
TLerma   Loar. AhouLt 197L  039J is outstaU.dIrg balar.ce after capitalizatin., of interest durirg disbursement and grace period)
3 years grace
5 years repayment
i - 14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and grace periods
May 6, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow Projections ('000 Esc)
Model 4 - 30 ha (3 farmers) Terra Quente
Without      Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year           Year    Year
Project        1      2        3        4       5        6        7        8        9        10      11-20
Cash Inflow
Returns                         385       342      407      460      519      627     631      606      606      606       606       606
Own Funds                        --        80
Long-term loan                   --       454                                 ----- -- 
Short-term loan                  38        53        48      53       53       53      53       53       53       53        53        53
Subtotal                    423      929       455      513      572     680      684      659      659      659      659       659
Cash Outflow
Investments                      --       534            --       --      --            --      --       --       --        --        --
Operating Costs                 275       245       190     204      204      204      204     204      204      204       204       204
Subtotal                    275       779      190      204      204     204      204      204      204      204      204       204
Surplus Cash for Debt Service   148         150       265     309      368      476     480      455      455      455       455       455
Loan Repayments
Annuity long-term loan           --        --        --      124     124      124      124     124      124      124       124        --
Short-term loan                  38        53       48       53       53       53      53       53       53       53        53        53
Net Cash Flow
Annual                          110        97       217     132      191      299      304     278      278      278       278       402
Cumulative                      110       207      424      556      747   1,046   1,350   1,628   1,906   2,184    2,462
Incremental Cash Flow              --      (547)      107     146      205      313      317     292      292      292       292       292
for Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return; 37.2%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Termst  Loan Amount 454 (565 is outstanding balance after capitalization of interest during disbursement and grace period)
1 year grace
8 years repayment
i - 14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and grace periods
May 6, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow Projections ('000 Eac)
Model 5 - 2 ha (Encosta) Vineyard Rehabilitation/Expansion
Without     Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year          Year    Year    Year
Project       1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9         10       11     12=20
Cash Inflow
Returns                        340       204      204      204     264      344     384      454     454      454       454      454    454
Own Funds                       --        37       24        6       8                    --          --       --        --       --      --
Long-term loan                  --       211      138       35      44               --       --      --        --                --      --
Short-term loan                 14         7        7        7       7       15      15       15      15       15        15       15      15
Subtotal                   335       459      373      252     325      331     399      469     469      469      476       469    469
Cash Outflow
Investments                      --      248      162       41      52       --      --       --      --       --        -_       __      _ 
Operating Costs                 57        29       29       29      29       55      55       55       55      55        55        55     55
Subtotal                    57       277      191       70      81       55      55       55      55       55        555 55           55
Surplus Cash for Debt Service   297        182      182      182     242      304     344      414     414      414       414      414    414
Loan Repayments
Annuity long-term loan          --        --        --      --      --       --      101     206      206     206       206       206     --
Short-term loan                 14         7        7        7       7       15      15       15       15      15        15       15      15
Net Cash Flow
Annual                         283       175       175     175      235     289     228      193      193     193       193       193    399
Cumulative                     283       458      633      808   1,043   1,332   1,560   1,753   1,946   2,139    2,332    2,525
Incremental Cash Flow
for Financial Rate of Return            (333)    (224)    (80)       (8)    120     182      252     252      252       252      252    252
Financial Rate of Return:  20.3X
Terms;  Loarn Aou.nt 428 (690 is outstandinz  fl-   -4t.1;At4nn of intereet during disbursement neriod and first year of
grace period)
4 years grace
5 years repayment
i - 14.5%
interest capitalized during disbursement and first year grace period
May 6, 1982



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calender Year        1982              1983               1984              1985              1986               1987              1988               1989
1 2 2     4     1 2       34       1 1    21    2                4      1    234          1    2      4      1       34        1   23              4
Irrigation Rehabilitation                       ~~~~~~(101
( N o. of Schemes)                                  __  . ., _  i 1 O }   . _   _   (30)
(30)
(                 (40(40)
On-Farm Investments                   _-                                -                                      . _ -  _ -ur   -  _30)  |       )
(No. of Farms Entering Program)                                           t -        -                                            (200)
-                           1~~~~~~~~0100)
I -  -  -              -   |    -  -               -L _ _ _1_  _  (12o( 0)
Agricultural Research                               -_j       -        - -        -  -   7) 
(No. of Contracts)                                        I__
-~~ - -                       F -   -        <6)
-   -   -   -   ~~~~6)
-         -_   - +  -  _     +     {(4)
-   -   -          -   -_ _  _ _ 4    t(3)
Milking Parlors (no.)                                                               (60)                  -     -     -(      (49)
Water Supply/Sewage                                       - _           -        - _               -        - _       - _          -   -
Roads                                               -M  I              -    - -                            
Streets/Health Facilities/Schools   |   |                     -   - _   ;            -         -        - -
Agricultural Laboratories                | | | |                            -   -   - | |
Equipment Procurement                                -   -    -   -             -   -   -               - J
Groundwater Study                                        -         -            -   -   -          -   - |
Olive Development Study                         -    -        _         _        -
Irrigation Feasibility Study                                      -
Apri1 30, 1982                                                                                                                                                       World Bank-23914



PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization Chart
Ministries Involved
President/CCRN      i                                             Consultative
!r:tsrnal Administrn5k.n           ___P_ __ _ _ ___Froject Cordinator                                                                               COd r  uncil
Financo and Planning
Education
Project Administration
_ . . l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit1
Social AfisDeputy Project                                                                                                                                   Union of.TA.D
Coordinatr                                 r-  -       --   Municipalities        I.U TA.o                          CACIIAO                      VI
Agri      , Commerceand Fisheries                                                     L  - - --____ __ __ ___ _-- _ 
National               Regional Director   _ __|                                                                                       Department of        Dpeprtrnent o
Services               of Agric ulture and                                               _ _                                              Research          Socal Studies
tural ComProjnet Dcoject Ri rrch                                                                                                  Project Evaluation
AppAgdrojc ircltura                          Stui sSresNon-agricultural
Research                                          StafcinguforlHealth       Components
Services 
Irrigation       Monitoring and                                  Monitoring and
Extension         Accounting for                                  Accounting for
Veterinary          Agricultural                                 Non-agricultural
Animal Breeding        Component                                      Component
1/ I.U.T.A.D. -University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro.
Command
 --- Association
May 3, 1982                                                                                                                                                                World Bank-23944



-66-
ANNEX 2
Page I
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A. Documents Related to Project Background
A-1   Portugal:  Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project.  Identification
Report by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. August 29, 1978.
A-2   Portugal:  Tras-os-lMontes Rural Developmnent Project.  Working Papers on
Agriculture, Meat Marketing and Irrigation by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program. February 28, 1979.
A-3   Portugal:  Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project.  Preparation Report
by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (2 volumes). August 7, 1980.
A-4   Disparites Regionales au Portugal (4 volumes).  April 1980.
A-5   Avaliaiao da Situaqao de Saneamento Basico do Distrito de Braganca, e do
Distrito de Vila Real. Report by the Direccao Geral do Saneamento
Basico (2 volumes). January, 1980.
A-6   Contribuicao para o Estudo da Rede de Centros Urbanas da Regiao do
Norte. Report by the Comissao de Coorderacao da Regiao do Norte
(CCRN). January, 1980.
A-7   Plano Integrado de SaudeR Vila Real/Braganca-Diagnoso da Situacao.
Report by the Secretaria de Estado da Saude. August:, 1980.
A-8   Projecto de Proposta de Linlias de Estrategia para o Desenvolvimento da
Regiao do Norte. Report by the CCRN (3 volumes). April, 1980.
A-9   Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado de Tras-os-Montes.  (2
volumes: Main and Componente Nao Agricola).  Report by CCrn (with
English translation). October, 1980..
A-10  Bases para a Determina$ao do Prejo do M3 de Aoua.  Note by CCRN.
April, 1981.
A-l1  Breve Caracterizacao do Agrupamento de Concelhos do Vale do Douro
Superior. Report by the Comissao de Planaemento da Regiao do Norte.
September, 1978.
A-12  Memorial Sobre o Projecto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado de
Tras-os-Montes.  Report by CCRN. January, 1981.



-67-
ANNEX 2
Page  2
B. DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT PROPOSALS
B-1      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Agricultural Aspects -
Report of Mr. David Gomes Crespo. Consultant in Pastures, Member of
Appraisal Team. November, 1980.
B-2      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Agricultural Services and
Organization - Report of Mr. Nigel Monteith, Consultant in
Agriculture, Member of Appraisal Team. December, 1980.
B-3      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Social Aspects - Report of
Mr. John Pilgrim, Consultant in Rural Development, Member of
Appraisal Team. December, 1980.
B-4      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Water Supply and
Sanitation Component - Report of Mr. James Kirch, Consultant in Water
Supply and Sanitation, Member of Appraisal Team.  January, 1981.
B-5      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Agricultural Credit -
Report of Mr. Franz Heidhues, Member of Appraisal Team. June, 1981.
B-6      Tras-os-Montes Rural Development Project:  Irrigation and Roads
Components - Report of Mr. Paris Economides, Member of Appraisal
Team. June, 1981.
C. DETAILED TABLES
1.      Phasing of Farm Development
2.      Individual Farmii Investment Costs
3.      Assistance to FENACAM
4.      Water and Sewer Cost Estimates
5.      Phased Project Costs
6.      Price Assumptions
7.      Detailed Farn and Crop Costs
8.      Phasing for Introduction of Milking Cows
9.      Project Staffing
10.      Technical Assistance
11.      IFADAP Balalnce Sheet



I



BRD 15736
> 00  ;;0  :\ ;; 70;l  g 00402  0r S*t k 2 :  72 20  005  ;;  iX'  . : '4 1ssF;876
/   f U 0; 0  :  Q                  ~~ ~~~s ltp             a                                        0        t               t _                                                         rq      s.   
n    t   h  .  t  oz Froqf^Oz j 4~~~~~~~~~X,                                  IS   ,t_ 
;      t<sn     s;i    a;  aS5  /I  nt   ig  -t   (j  Z0   
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v L_           Xe- -    lX: ;                                                                                                               tw /f      
;  X    f    A.                Am24                            W                X              j      b                      X               tt  -.D 7.i X.                    -        i'k's"o' ;\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<   520 3   <   ;    9 1  >                                                   -   0                           E   0 ~~~~RURAL DEVELOMNT PROJECT
0 : _ 4 i / 0 ^ > _ > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,6-  Aea B -day
g  f  t   f       ,7\  C)        ,J  <    X  y  6    /       h  CC   2 /50,,.,,  /j   Jj            |         \  r  :   ::  :            t7rfos  6    RDIX7  r7  titnO    uib   -  D    t - ,6srOohi6
s < d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  '   vw do    a&  Jouro/OuprErf, 1lDnDin7 0 tt
!        ;,,,,H,          . -,%    >   /       g                  /         !                       6            V      ::   \  :. A    ::                                   '    t-rvuseild ibAis~~~~~~~~~~Tos d Ali
t\        2    X       -^   t 5 rn - Ih<s                        /       /                          N             s 1          A  1                                         0     Crvzelho trri~~~~~~~~~~~~To    F'.
In                                                                                                                                                                                                             p6d ',10 wtr ordEkSsaixCU1sy2l b CnelsC/J/f~aG.    r>/(   IoiEEi i(zlU   i  Sx >ific oz 
O!   tht   t@@de.!  L  (  lhE  Rb76f 1 tO wil#sb orPml 7hP bn.mmacxona sed Ih e \1 w . Xg g __ hU Lf 5 --F_ -~~d, 1
bourdeneb~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~p .b::\l s.r t35,PzO&  so,al ,,I,; .ln~e,     2JS  jq                                                                                               0
.    9'0P0.9   Of   .,   ........  F  hO . d.n E . ,,, ., , N .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co,.Iho 8.do
8-cl'  7'15'  j  7^ 30hoY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T:a,0 797 '0|    ;do y ' W-d-:\6'G  \919 



