Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3332-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 20, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bdck _lhodz|ti.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1980                  February 1982
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
US$l = 50.1 Esc.                    US$1   = 69.4 Esc.
1 Esc. = US$   0.020                  1 Esc. = US$o.014
Exchange Rate Used for Cost Calculations
USt1 = 70.0 Esc.
Esc. 1 = US$0.014
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
CCAM         Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo
(Agricultural Credit Cooperative)
CCRN         Comissao de Coordena,ao da Regiao do Norte
(Northern Regional Coordination Commission)
DGHEA        Direcgao Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia Agricola
(General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
DRTM         Regional Direction of the Tras-os-Montes, Ministry of Agriculture
EC           European Communities
EEC          European Economic Community
EIB          European Investment Bank
GAT          Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Office of Technical Support)
ICIM         Instituto do Credito para Investimentos Municipaes (Credit
Institution for Municipal Investments)
IFADAP       Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da
Agricultura e Pescas (Agriculture and Fisheries Development Fund)
MACP         Ministerio da Agricultura, Comercio e Pescas
(Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries)
MLT          Medium- and Long-term
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PAU          Project Administration Unit
PBI          Participating Banking Institution (including CCAMs)



F'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries:            Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries; and
Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da
Agricultura e Pescas (IFADAP), the Agricultural and
Fisheries Development Fund.
Amount:                   $51 million equivalent
Terms.                    15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 11.6 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:          The Government would make about $33 million of the
loan proceeds available to IFADAP to belp finance
the agricultural credit component, under an agency
agreement which would provide for a 3 percent
commission for IFADAP; the Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:             The proposed project represents a major first step in
improving farm incomes and living conditions in the
region of Tras-os-Montes, which is the poorest in
Portugal. The project would support these objectives
through: (i) the rehabilitation of 150 traditional
irrigation schemes in the mountain and high valley
zones; (ii) improvements to rainfed agriculture in the
above irrigated areas, in the Planalto Mirandes and
Terra Quente zones, and in the Douro vineyard zone;
(iii) credit to farmers for on-farm investments to
support the agricultural development in (i) and (ii);
(iv) providing storage facilities and equipment to
cooperatives, and for the construction of milking
parlors; (v) strengthening of extension and research
services in agriculture through additional staff,
housing, vehicles, equipment, and technical
assistance; (vi) rural infrastructure investments
including rural roads and village streets, water
supply and sewage disposal, the rehabilitation of
about 60 primary school classrooms and other community
development works; and (vii) investments in health
centers.  The main beneficiaries of the project would
be farm families whose health, living standards and
incomes would improve. There are certain risks
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
contingent on farmers' willingness to adopt new
practices quickly and on the overall coordination of
the project to ensure proper planning and timely
execution. The considerable emphasis on research and
extension, and the coordination mechanisms built into
the project (paras. 44, 51-52, and 56) should
substantially reduce these risks.
Estimated Cost: 1/2/                        -----$      Millions--------
Local     Foreign      Total
A.  Irrigation Rehabilitation                3.9         0.8         4.7
B.  Otl Farm Investments                    12.3        14.3        26.6
C.  Infrastructure                          32.3        17.6        49.9
D.  Project Organization                     6.4         2.8         9.2
E. Technical Assistance (studies,
research, consulting services)         3.8        3.5         7.3
F.  Physical Contingencies                   2.8         1.0         3.9
G.  Price Escalation                        42.3        11.0        53.4
Total                                  103.8        51.0       154.8
Financing Plan: 1/                          ----$      Millions---------
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                                 -         51.0        51.0
Government                         29.2          -         29.2
Credit Institutions:
(a) IFADAP                          1.4          -          1.4
(b) PBIs                            3.7          -          3.7
(of which CCAMs)               (1.2)         -         (1.2)
(c) ICIMs                          48.0          -         48.0
Subborrowers                        6.8          -          6.8
Municipalities                      14.7          -         14.7
Total                             103.8         51.0      154.8
Estimated Disbursements:                       -----------$ Millions-
Bank FY      1983   1984   1985   1986  1987   1988   1989
Annual                      1.7    4.7    8.5   11.2  12.1    8.3    4.5
Cumulative                  1.7    6.4   14.9   26.1  38.2   46.5   51.0
Rate of Return:        15.8 percent
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3489-PO, dated May 11, 1982
1/   Discrepancies due to rounding.
2/   Taxes and customs duties are excluded, except for civil works which
includes 5 percent taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$51 million to help
finance a rural development project in the Tras-os-Montes region. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years grace, with interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The latest economic report, entitled "Recent Economic Developments
and the Medium-Term Perspective with Special Reference to Resource Mobiliza-
tion" (No. 3365-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 19,
1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An economic mission has
recently visited Portugal and an updating report is being prepared.
3.       The revolution of April 1974 and its aftermath radically transformed
Portugal's economy. The banks, insurance companies, power companies, major
transportation agencies and the large industrial groups were nationalized. A
comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of
the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safe-
guarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put on the highest
salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and social security
benefits were increased. Real wages and private consumption increased rapidly
in the period to 1977, resulting in a significant improvement in income
distribution. The Government also increased public expenditures and deficits
(necessitating rapid monetary expansion) to meet the expectations of improved
living standards which had been generated by the revolution. The general
circumstances of the revolutionary period and its aftermath also generated a
serious deterioration in the profitability and general financial position of
the private sector, and a significant decline in foreign reserves.
4.       The difficulties facing the Portuguese economy were compounded in the
immediate post-revolution period by three major factors: (i) the dramatic oil
price increase of end-1973 which resulted in a sharp deterioration in
Portugal's terms of trade; (ii) the return of more than half a million
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification loan, which is
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors in June 1982.



- 2
Portuguese from the overseas colonies to the mainland; and (iii) the onset
of recession in Europe with reduced demand for Portuguese emigrant labor,
export commodities and tourist facilities. The combination of these exter-
nal factors with the structural changes brought about by the revolution
resulted initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments. The
current surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large deficit in 1975,
which increased to $1,500 million by 1977. Thus, the period 1974-77 saw
Portugal fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private
consumption and meeting the investment needs of the economy in the face of
continuing adverse external conditions. By 1977, real consumption per
capita had increased by about 10 percent over the 1973 level, both the
external current account and the domestic budget were substantially in defi-
cit, and the level of inflation was 27 percent, while open unemployment was
over 300,000 (i.e., about 8 percent of the resident labor force).
5.        A program of austerity measures, including currency devaluations,
was implemented in 1976 and 1977 but its impact was reduced by the continued
rapid expansion of credit, mainly to finance the Government deficit. In
early May 1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of
payments deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken
to stabilize the economic situation included: (i) a 6.5 percent devaluation
of the escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the
escudo at a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point
increase in the rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and
lending rates; (iii) ceilings on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase
in taxes; (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for
water, electricity, gas, transportation and essential food products; and
(vi) continued restrictions on allowable wage rate increases. The measures
were effective in reducing the balance of payments current account deficit
from $1,500 million in 1977 to $800 million in 1978. This improvement was
associated with a substantial decline in real wages and a reduction in the
inflation rate to 22 percent. The continuation of similar policies in 1979
produced even more dramatic results with the balance of payments' deficit
virtually at zero, export volumes rising by 27 percent and import volumes
rising at only about 8 percent. Nonetheless, the trade deficit increased
slightly as a consequence of the substantial oil price increase during the
year, and a massive 60 percent increase in migrants' remittances was the
element producing the overall balance of payments improvement. In early
1980, the focus of policy shifted to control of inflation, and a six percent
revaluation of the escudo was implemented in February. Together with
continued but weaker credit restraint and price controls, this helped to
bring the inflation rate to a level of about 17 percent. The crawling-peg
devaluation was continued at 0.75 percent per month to June 1980 and was
thereafter reduced to 0.5 percent per month. These changes combined with a
continuing large public deficit, emerging wage pressures and the deepening
recession in Europe produced a sharp deterioration in the external trade
performance in 1980 and especially in 1981. This trend was exacerbated by
two successive years of severe drought which resulted in increased
agricultural and electricity imports.



-3-
6.        The policies pursued during the past tbree years, although they
have generated an average growth rate of about 4 percent from 1978-1980,
have not made any real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent). The
emphasis on short-run stabilization has also delayed the formulation of
policies to address the serious structural problems which Portugal faces. -
Particularly important is the large dependence on imported energy; the ris-
ing dependence on food imports; a backward agricultural sector; an indus-
trial sector, parts of wbich still require heavy protection in comparison
with the EEC; an ill-defined attitude to public enterprises; and a weak tax
structure. Despite rising confidence in Portugal's economic and political
stability, private investment has been very disappointing in recent years
(it even fell in real terms in 1979), and has certainly not been adequate
given the very considlE:able  :ivestment needs of 2   ecouom-y.
A Growth Strategy for the Eighties
7.        The recent sharp deterioration in the balance of payments suggest
that stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy. Growth rates on the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum which were
earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with the main-
tenance of reasonable stability in the balance of payments over the next two
to three years, but may be possible thereafter. However, stabilization
policies will need to be pursued in a framework which is consistent with
efforts to restructure industry to maximize the benefits of EEC entry, to
encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the generally
weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture. If reasonable
growth rates are to be achieved in spite of oil, food and otber structural
dependencies on the import side, Portugal will certainly require a rate of
growth of visible exports significantly higher than the growth of world
trade. Portugal will also need to retain policies which can maintain mi-
grants' remittances at a high level. This will require careful balancing on
the part of the Government since the measures which could ensure a reason-
able balance of.payments position may, at the same time, discourage invest-
ment and slow the rate of growth.
8.        Certainly the position defined above will require Portugal to
fully exploit its potential comparative advantages vis-a-vis the EEC, which
the country expects to join in the mid-eighties. In the industrial sector
this will mean emphasis on labor-intensive industries, both light indus-
tries, such as textiles and footwear, and heavier items, including electri-
cal machinery and transport equipment. This will imply a substantial, and
possibly painful, rehabilitation process in some cases (e.g., textiles).
Although Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the
development of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be
pursued whenever adequate rates of return can be demonstrated. In the case
of steel, Portugal is in the process of expanding capacity in areas such as
non-flat products where capacity elsewhere in the EEC is unlikely to be-



- 4 -
expanded. Portugal's industrial strategy is also complicated by the fact
that its wage advantage will be eroded and that intensified competition from
the Far East will become a problem for some products in which Portugal may
have a comparative advantage for the moment. Hopefully, the necessary
adjustment will be assisted by finance, advice and trading concessions from
the existing members of the EEC.
9.        In the case of agriculture, the acceptance of EEC policy will
raise prices to consumers but, at the same time, could cause a net flow of
resources into agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability
of various agricultural commodities. Portugal needs to respond to this
opportunity and thereby reduce the very large trade deficit in agricultural
commodities. The necessary response is to modernize and increase investment
in those commodities such as fruits, off-season vegetables and, possibly,
vegetable oils where the climate and early season confer a strong compara-
tive advantage. Modernization in other more traditional agricultural crops
is desirable even in the absence of EEC entry, but would also help to reduce
the costs to the economy of EEC membership.
10.       The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in
1976, in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not
implemented. Work has been underway for some time to launch the preparation
of a medium-term public investment program. The challenge for Portuguese
planners and policymakers is to be highly selective in its program of public
investment so that this can make a useful contribution to its foreign ex-
change needs at an acceptable cost in terms of scarce budgetary and other
resources. In addition, it is extremely important to seek new institutional
arrangements to streamline decision making as well as project preparation,
implementation and supervision. As regards public enterprises themselves,
there is a need to define a medium-term strategy which will differentiate
between their social and economic objectives. For the moment, the develop-
ment of these enterprises and external lending to them is significantly
hindered by the fact that the economic cost of meeting social objectives is
sometimes not taken into account. Subsidy, pricing and other policies to-
wards public enterprises should be made in the light of a clear understand-
ing of their consequences, with adequate and explicit provision made for any
divergence.
II.       The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment of the period. The Government has
recently established an integrated scheme of incentives for private invest-
ment and has improved arrangements for compensating owners of assets
nationalized in 1974/75. However, private investment is still hindered by
several factors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still
relatively low by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the
near future. Credit availability to the private sector is restricted by the



- 5 -
continuing large public sector borrowing requirement, although in the ab-
sence o£ strong ?ri-iate sector demand, this has not been a major constraint
in the past.  Potential investors have considered current interest rates too
high and the new investment incentive scheme is essentially designed to
mitigate the perceived high cost of capital for selected investments. Under
tie scheme, re r-on3m-c viability is a prerequ;3ite for larger investments and
an important factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the new
scheme provides only modest additional encouragement to exports and its
choice of sectoral priorities will require monitoring. However, the very
large increase in exports in 1979 indicates the potential of the private
sector to make substantial gains in major markets.
12.       If¶asures to  mtpro-re the condi- ons in the agricultural sector are
underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be expanded
further and focussed on production-oriented investments. The mechanism and
structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be rationalized to provide
appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While increased on-farm
investments are necessary, little will be achieved without substantial
advances on the tecbnical side as well. The extension services of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries need to be upgraded, and
their links to research and to the farmers need to be strengthened. Recent
efforts to train agricultural manpower and the farmers themselves need to be
intensified.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to
Portugal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments sup-
port and for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de
Portugal has obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from
the Bank for International Settlements and European central banks. In
addition, as of end 1981, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to
Portugal amounted to about $60 million and a new IMF facility was under dis-
cussion. The EEC, European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free Trade
Association (EFTA), as well as bilateral agencies have committed significant
funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term pro-
jects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II. Starting in 1977,
Portugal received $750 million in medium- and long-term (MLT) commitments as
balance of payments support from 14 countries, with the US, Germany and
Japan being the main contributors. In addition, Banco do Portugal converted
about half of its $1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium- and
long-term debt. In large part because of Portugal's gold reserve, the
Government and major banks and companies are able to attract medium-term
loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent
terms provided eight years repayment with interest rates as low as 0.4
percent over LIBOR. The Government's efforts to stimulate direct foreign
investment have resulted in a $600 million commitment by Renault and the



-6-
promise of other substantial investments. Portugal will however continue
to require sizeable external inflows for the investment necessary to
restructure its economy and finance its large external deficits. The
multilateral lenders, and in particular, the World Bank and the EEC/EIB,
will have to continue to play a vital role in helping Portugal meet its
capital requirements. In this respect, the pre-accession aid proposed by
the European Commission of about 275 million units of account will play a
useful part.
14.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $2.2 billion at end 1977 to
about $5.1 billion at end 1980. Service payments on this debt rose from 5.9
percent of exports of goods and services plus workers' remittances in 1977
to 13.6 percent in 1980. These figures include the portion of Banco de
Portugal debt held in MLT form, which amounted to t346 million in 1977
and $1,035 million in 1979. In addition, the 1980 estimate of private
non-guaranteed MLT debt was $297 million. This gives a total outstanding
debt disbursed of about $5.4 billion as of end 1980. Undisbursed debt
amounted to a further $800 million.  Although Portugal's total debt out-
standing still remains at manageable levels, it needs careful monitoring,
especially in view of the rapid buildup of sbort-term debt in 1980 and
1981. Preliminary figures for end-1981 from Banco de Portugal suggests a
total outstanding debt of $10 billion-$12 billion (including $3.4 billion of
short-term debt). The debt service ratio (MLT only) is expected to rise to
about 20 percent by the middle of the decade. Given Portugal's gold
reserves of about 22 million troy ounces, this seems a large but acceptable
burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
15.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Government
priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three
thermal and two hydropower projects, which were successfully completed. The
events of the more recent past have created special problems; the transition
to an open political system has revealed social and economic weaknesses
which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The Bank has re-
sponded to Portugal's needs by identifying, preparing and financing pro-
jects, and through economic and sector work.
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification loan, which is
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors in June 1982.



- 7 -
16.      The proposed loan would finance the Bank's twenty-first project in
Portugal, the sixteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. 1/ Bank
operations since 1976 involved a power project, a petroleum exploration pro-
ject, two highway projects, three industrial finance projects, two education
projects, as well as one project each for water supply, agricultural and   -
fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer modernization, and mechanical indus-
tries. Total Bank financial assistance since the resumption of lending
amounts to $664 million. 1/ Lack of experience with Bank procedures has
caused delays in earlier projects. However, this problem has been
substantially reduced by the increasing familiarity of the administration with
these procedures and the resolve to initiate procurement preparation as early
as possible.
17.      As of March 31, 1982, total disbursements from loans made since the
resumption of lending in 1976 amounted to nearly $160 million. The 1976 Power
loan and the 1977 First Banco de Fomento Nacional loan are fully disbursed and
closed, and the other 1977 loan, Highways I, is substantially committed.
Looking at the 1978-1981 loans, projects involving direct lending to industry
are progressing well and disbursing without major problems, and development
finance company loans are proceeding satisfactorily. However, projects
directly implemented by the administration, or largely controlled by it, are
slow in execution and disbursement. The main reasons for this are
administrative weaknesses, such as insufficient coordination, as well as
limited experience in project preparation, implementation and supervision. As
the result of a thorough bi-annual country implementation review, in close
consultation with the implementing agencies and the Central Government
authorities, some of these problems have been attenuated; others are currently
being addressed by adjusting institutional components in project design.
These across-the-board reviews have proved useful and should lead to
improvements over time. Portugal's record on disbursements has lagged behind
that of other countries in the Region. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and the IFC investment as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects; these are indicated on the attached map of the
distribution of Bank projects by sectors.
18.      In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have provided a
basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of the water
supply (together with WHO), education and agriculture sectors and of
manufacturing export industries were carried out and discussed with the
Government, and the corresponding reports distributed to the Executive
Directors. As a major problem, unemployment has received particular at-
tention; a report which sums up the results of a Bank survey was distributed
to the Executive Directors in FY79. A survey of the proposed public
1/ The $30 million Industrial Energy Conservation and Diversification loan,
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors in June 1982, would
finance the Bank's fifteenth project in Portugal, and is included in these
figures.



-8-
medium-term iitvestments was carried out in June 1979 and was distributed to
the Executive Directors in FY81. This report has served the Government in
establishing investment priorities. A draft report on Policies for Industrial
Restructuring was submitted to the Government in February 1982 and will be
disculssed in June.
19.      In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as areas of concentration for
Bank lending. The importance of developing the industrial sector cannot be
overemphasized since this sector is expected to be the main force in the
Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, continue the export expansion
which started in 1978, and to maintain competitiveness in the EEC in the years
ahead. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural reform,
export promotion, employment creation (or preservation) and promoting
energy-saving investments. To address the needs of the agricultural sector,
the Bank has assisted the Government in creating an agricultural credit
institution and in FY80 approved a loan for a forestry project. The trained
manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors, which
constittute a serious bottleneck, particularly in agriculture, are being
addressed through the FY78 and the FY80 Education loans.
20.      The stabilization policies of 1977-1979 (para. 5), while initially
contributing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not per-
mitted implementation of the development programs now urgently needed in many
sectors. Heavy dependence on imported oil, a rapidly increasing oil bill, two
years of drought and a recession in Portugal's export markets have again
worsened the balance of payments outlook.   If the restructuring needs of the
economy are to be tackled seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the
social sectors corrected, long-term external assistance will be needed to help
Portugal. It is the World Bank's objective to contribute to these efforts and
to provide advice on institutional reforms which are crucial for Portugal's
long-term economic objectives.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE R5GION
The Agricultural Sector, Constraints and Policy
21.      Portugal's agriculture (including forestry and fisheries) accounts
for about 12 percent of GDP, 15 percent of foreign exchange earnings and
employs about 30 percent of the labor force. About 60 percent of the
agricultural population is in the poverty target group.
22.      The rate of growth of aggregate agricultural production has declined
in recent years and domestic production has increasingly failed to meet rising
internal demand, with the result that imports of food items such as meat,
cereals, oilseeds and sugar, have increased. In 1976 these imports
represented 20 percent of total merchandise imports, and this proportion has
tended to increase in recent years. To reverse these trends, a substantial
infusion of investment resources into the sector would be required, as well as



- 9 -
the provision of strong institutional support services, such as agricultural
credit, researcb and extension. If the capital/output ratio is assumed to
remain unchanged in the foreseeable future, which is likely given the present
level of technology, investment in agriculture would have to be doubled to
attain a 3 percent annual growth rate. The investment needs of the sector are
substantial, thus providing ample opportunity for choosing and implementing
varied types of projects, but institutional constraints limit the sector's
absorptive capacity.
23.      Portugal's agricultural land base is small--about 5.0 million ha,
excluding forests--and half of that land consists of relatively poor soils.
While Portugal's climate and agricultural land are comparable to those of most
northern Mediterranean countries, its yields are extremely low, even when
compared with countries which share similar agricultural environments. While
in the South land tenure is now characterized by large collective production
units and cooperatives, and by private farms varying in size from about 10 ha
to 500 ha, land tenure in the North is generally based on small and highly
fragmented holdings.
24.      Aside from the paucity of good quality arable land, several major
constraints have prevented agriculture from performing its potentially key
role in the economy. First, the agrarian structure that prevailed until 1975
restricted access to resources and kept a large proportion of the rural
population poor and powerless. While the agrarian reform in the South has
somewhat mitigated that situation, it remains essentially unchanged in the
North except that substantial numbers of migrant workers have left the farms
to be operated by their wives or elderly parents, and that their remittances
allow their families to purchase consumer goods to a larger extent than was
the case hitherto. Second, the institutional role of the Government in the
sector was essentially limited to regulating markets and administering
subsidies. The need for Government action to provide a broad range of
technical and financial services to the sector was not appreciated until after
the revolution, and even at present there is little in terms of manpower and
experience upon which to build viable programs in the sbort-term. In
particular, agricultural extension and research services are inadequate and,
to the extent that they exist, are not geared to the practical needs of the
farmers and are not coordinated. Third, economic policy has led to
distortions in resource allocation that are still deeply ingrained in
agriculture. An elaborate system of administered prices and subsidies kept
producer prices of major commodities artificially higher than import prices,
thereby stifling incentives for efficiency in resource use. In addition,
despite the establishment in 1977 of the Agricultural and Fisheries
Development Fund (IFADAP), which benefitted from an FY78 Bank loan of $70
million (Loan 1603-PO), agricultural credit policies and the terms and
conditions of lending are inadequate and do not provide the incentives needed
to increase substantially the amount of credit extended for agricultural
investment. The conditions under which banking institutions (PBIs) resort to
IFADAP financing have only recently improved to provide incentives for PBIs to
participate in that project.



- 10 -
25.      The Government has assigned a high priority to the development of
agriculture and seeks to bring about increases in productivity and in
production. Portugal, however, has not yet defined a set of consistent
policies likely to bring about this development, nor does it have the
institutions, trained manpower and mechanisms needed to implement such
policies. The Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries (MACP) is very
large in terms of number of employees, most of whom are located in Lisbon, but
its activities are inadequately coordinated, often unrelated to the needs of
the farmers, and much of its staff does not have the qualifications needed for
effective action. The proposed project would, for the limited area of the
project, introduce institutions and mechanisms to bring about agricultural
development, which could be replicated elsewhere in Portugal.
The Tras-os-Montes Region
26.      This region, as shown on the attached maps, is in the northeasterly
corner of the country, has a very broken topography and has three climatic
zones. In terms of both climate and topography, it has five major farming
zones. Of the region's 1.3 million ha, some 550,000 are cultivated and, for
the region as whole, the average farm size is 6.5 ha. More than two-thirds of
the properties are owner-operated, although they tend to be highly fragmented.
A typical mountain zone farm of 4 ha might have 13 separate parcels, many
non-continguous, and in the hot climate area, a typical 5 ha farm could be
divided into seven parcels.
27.      The latest population estimate for the region, which was made in
1978, is 624,000. Only 10 percent of the population live in urban areas and
over 70 percent of the labor force are engaged in agriculture. Because of the
emigration of workers, the average age of farm managers is high, and almost
half of the farm population is illiterate.
28.      The standard of living in the region is very low.  Per capita income
is about 35 percent of the national level. Per capita consumption of water
and electricity is less than one-third of the national level. Most of the
population have inadequate or non-existent sanitation facilities and
rudimentary water supply systems. Infant mortality is almost twice the
national average. Schooling for most children is provided in one- or two-room
village schools, wbere four years of basic primary education are provided.
Public transportation is inadequate and many rural roads are impassable for
extended periods each winter. A large proportion of poor farming communities
maintain a basically traditional, semi-subsistence peasant economy, with few
modern facilities.
29.      Given this situation, which is probably the worst in Western Europe,
the Government has decided that conditions of living must be improved in the
region, particularly in the light of Portugal's expected entry into the
European Communities (EC) in the mid 1980s, since failure to do so would
inevitably result in a speedy depopulation of the area, once national
barriers to emigration are lowered. In addition, the agricultural potential



- 11 -
of the region, especially for pasture-based meat and dairy production and for
quality wines suitable for export, is insufficiently exploited. The project
thus fits in with the strategy of alleviating poverty and would contribute to
changing the state of this region which is seen as permanently isolated,
overlooked, and depressed.
Bank Assistance to Agriculture
30.      Bank lending for the development of Portuguese agriculture is
relatively new. So far, only two projects have been approved in that sector:
the FY78 Agriculture and Fisheries Credit Project and the FY80 Forestry
Project. Implementation of the former project has been very slow, due largely
to the excess liquidity in the banking system which, coupled with strict
credit ceilings, sharply limited recourse to  rFADAP refinancing by
participating banking institutions (PBIsJ. The Government and the Bank are in
the process of reviewing the credit mechanisms, including the present statutory
limitations on IFADAP's ability to extend credit directly to farmers. If a
workable credit system can be introduced soon, there is every reason to
believe that the demand for credit for agricultural investment in that
project's area (the Alentejo Region) will sharply increase, thus enabling
disbursement of the loan. In the meantime, credit ceiling incentives have
been introduced in January 1982 for PBIs to participate, and their impact is
beginning to be felt. The proposed project has drawn heavily on the lessons
learned in this first project, particularly insofar as the agricultural credit
terms and mechanisms are concerned. The forestry project, which became
effective in March 1981, is progressing satisfactorily. In addition to these
on-going lending activities, the Bank carried out an agricultural sector
survey (Report No. 1689b-PO, distributed to the Executive Directors on
March 24, 1978) and a study on agricultural prices and subsidies, distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 28, 1979 (No. 2380-PO).
31.      Bank Strategy.  The Bank's lending program in agriculture is aimed at
addressing key development constraints in the sector and at preparing for EEC
entry. This would be done by providing funds to modernize and expand
agricultural, forestry and fisheries activities and by introducing new
technologies. Institutional assistance would also be provided, in the areas
of agricultural credit, extension and research, as well as to improve
processing and marketing facilities. In addition to the proposed
Tras-os-Montes rural development project, work is underway to prepare an
agroindustry project which aims at improving processing and marketing
facilities to increase Portugal's competitiveness vis-a-vis its future
European partners. A fisheries project is to be prepared under the
Agricultural and Fisheries Credit project, to exploit more fully Portugal's
fish resources. Apart from support for extension and research under the
proposed project (para. 44), the Bank is also discussing possible assistance
in these areas on a national scale. The Bank's approach is thus broad, but
still selective enough to address key problems of agricultural development in
Portugal. The proposed project fits well in the Government's agricultural
development and rural development objectives, and in the Bank strategy for the
sector.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.      Project History.  The project originated from the findings of the
Bank's agricultural sector mission which visited Portugal in October/November
1976, and is based on background papers prepared earlier by the since
disbanded Commission for the Development of Tras-os-Montes. It was further
identified by FAO/CP missions in December 1977 and May/June 1978, in
cooperation with a Portuguese working group which prepared background data.
Preparation was carried out by a national preparation team assisted, in the
course of missions, by the Bank and FAO/CP. The project was appraised in
November 1980. Following an extensive Government review of the proposed scope
and financing plan, negotiations were held in Washington in April 1982.
Portugal's delegation was led by Prof. Luis Valente de Oliveira, President of
the Northern Regional Coordination Commission (CCRN), and included
representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Planning, Agriculture,
Commerce and Fisheries (MACP), of CCRN, and of Instituto Financeiro de Apoio
ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas (IFADAP).
33.      The main features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III. Maps showing the project area are
attached. A staff appraisal report entitled "Tras-os-Montes Rural
Development Project, (No. 3489-PO)", dated May 11, 1982, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
34.      Project Objectives.  The primary objective  of the proposed project
is to establish a sound base for technological progress in the Tras-os-Montes
region (the poorest in Portugal), and to improve agricultural services to the
point where they can effectively stimulate such progress. To this end, the
project would assist in: (a) raising farm incomes and living standards by
supporting changes in farming practices (for example, improved livestock
production and expansion of quality wine production), and by improving the
physical and social infrastructure (construction of rural roads, water supply
and sewage schemes, classrooms and health care centers); and (b) encouraging
the decentralization of public sector activities by expanding and
strengthening regional agricultural services, supporting the infrastructural
development programs of the municipalities, and improving the planning,
design, and maintenance capabilities of a range of regional institutions.
35.      The proposed project constitutes the first attempt in Portugal to
carry out a program focussed on the design and coordination of all aspects of
a region's rural development erforts. The project fits well within the
Government's policies of expanding pasture-based meat and dairy production and
increasing the output of quality wines in order to improve the foreign trade
balance, of decentralizing public services, and of preparing the rural areas
for Portugal's planned accession to the European Economic Community (EEC).
Project Description and Content
36.      Project Description.  The proposed project, for which a Bank loan of
$51 million is proposed, would consist of the following components, the
implementation of which would be coordinated by the Project Administration
Unit (PAU) (para. 56):



- 13 -
(i) the rehabilitation of 150 traditional irrigation schemes in the
Mountain and High Valley zones;
(ii) improvements to rainfed agriculture in the above irrigated
areas, and in the Planalto Mirandes, Terra Quente, and the
Douro vineyard zones;
(iii)  the provision of credit to farmers for on-farm investments to
support the agricultural development in (i) and (ii) above;
(iv) the construction of milking parlors and the provision of
storage facilities and equipment to cooperatives;
(v) the provision of additional staff, housing, vehicles and
equipment, to strengthen the region's agricultural extension
and research services;
(vi)  the provision of credit for rural infrastructure investments,
including rural roads and village streets, water supply and
sewage disposal, and the rehabilitation of about 60 primary
school classrooms (to be implemented by the municipalities);
(vii)  investments in health centers (to be implemented by the
Ministry of Health), for related housing, materials, and
equipment, and for other community development works; and
(viii)  the provision of technical assistance and training, and the
financing of studies.
Irrigation Rehabilitation.
37.      This component would cover 150 traditional irrigation schemes,
including about 2,720 farms, with 7,500 ha irrigated out of a total area of
15,200 ha. It would consist of repair or reconstruction of diversion weirs,
construction of new concrete main and secondary canals, structures and
offtakes equipped with steel slide gates. In order not to disturb existing
winter irrigation of pastures, rehabilitation works would be carried out from
May to October. It is estimated that this rehabilitation would reduce water
losses, increasing by about 60 percent the amounts of water available for the
summer period. The works would be done by the General Directorate of
Hydraulics anc Rural Engineering (DGHEA) on force account, with farmers being
responsible for earth canals, drains, and land levelling on their own farms.
The proposed loan would finance construction materials for this project
component.
38.      The major development on farms within the proposed irrigation
rehabilitation schemes would be the change from a two-year potatoes/cereals
rotation to a four year rotation including potatoes, cereals, and two years of
temporary ryegrass/clover pasture. Intensive dairying would be developed,



- 14 -
based on forage from this irrigated pasture and from improvements in other
pastures and temporary forage in non-irrigated areas of the farms in the
project area. Development of dairying in the Mountain zone would be based on
the genetic upgrading of herds of Brown Swiss cattle. Dairying in the High
Valley zone would be developed by importing Friesian heifers. The Government
has agreed to expedite the granting of import licenses for the necessary
cattle (Loan Agreement, Section 3.11(c)).
39.      Rainfed Agriculture.  Aside from the improvement of rainfed areas in
irrigation schemes (para. 38), most of the development of rainfed agriculture
would take place in the Planalto Mirandes zone and involve some 860 farms
covering 17,200 ha.  Development on these farms would include a reduction in.
the traditional cereals/fallow rotation, with the resulting freed land sown
for improved permanent pasture. The remaining fallow land would be sown for
additional temporary forage production. Livestock development would be based
on the local Mirandesa cattle, sometimes crossed with Charolais to produce
veal and some beef. In the Terra Quente zone, pilot activities are planned to
replace a rye/fallow rotation on poor soils with permanent pasture, improve
forage crops on moister soils, and undersow olive trees with a "subterranean
clover" pasture. Management would be by several farmers cooperatively
developing and fencing contiguous blocks of land, which would be grazed by
their sheep flocks in an intensified rotation pattern. About 4,500 ha would
be developed in this manner in some 150 units, each with about 30 ha and
bringing together three owners.
40.      On-Farm Investments.  The investment needed to carry out the on-farm
development mentioned above is estimated to include some 4,400 imported
Friesian heifers, 1,700 beef heifers, 7,500 ewe lambs, about $3.6 million for
livestock shelters, 7,900 ha of permanent pasture, about $1.0 million for
drainage and fencing, 80 tractors with implements, 30 seed drills, 80 mowers
and 30 pickup balers. A five-year time slice of this investment would be
supported by credit provided under the project.
Vineyard Establishment
41.      In the Douro zone, new vine plantations for the production of Port
wine are envisaged in the following manner: (a) about 1,150 ha of completely
new vineyards to be established in the "mortorios"l/ area in approximately
one ha lots to be developed by farmers with an existing hectare of vines; (b)
in existing vineyards on intermediate slopes, about 525 farmers would each
replant one ha of aging vines the productivity of which has started to
decline; and (c) a similar effort would take place on some 525 ha in areas of
easily sloping topography.
1/ Well established terraces, formerly growing vines which were killed by
phylloxera in the early 1900s, now under natural vegetation.



- 15 -
42.      Credit would be proviced to the farmers to finance the costs of
Lteracing, de-stoning, erecting trellises, fertilizing/planting vines and
gra-ting, and other sundry vineyard operations during the four years before
the new vines begin to bear fruit. Credit would also be provided to purchase
O:ut 100 tractors for the Douro zone.
Milk Collection and Storage
43.      The project would include the construction of about 110 milking
parlors, and the provision of storage facilities and equipment. Wherever
possible, the milking parlors would be owned by cooperatives which would
recover their cost through a user fee based on the volume of milk processed or
on the number of cows milked (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09(b)).
Agricultural Services
44.      The project would assist in strengthening the extension, animal
health and research services by establishing a project extension service and
an animal health service with suitably qualified staff (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06(b)), providing pickups, cars, about 50 new houses for extension
staff, two veterinary laboratories, an artificial insemination (AI) unit, a
seed laboratory with equipment, machinery to equip two demonstration units in
the extension service, and holding areas to assemble livestock for
distribution to the farmers. In addition, salaries and operating expenses of
the research, extension, veterinary, and AI services during the implementation
period would be included under the project, although they would not be
financed under the loan. The training proposed under the project would
include a two-month course on general extension principles at the National
Training Center and would cover basic principles in soils, crop, pasture and
animal production, and on-farm economics. This would be followed by three
months at a center near Mirandela, which would involve the study of important
farm practices used in the region, and of proposed new methodology. Students
would be required to spend one month at the beginning of the latter course on
a selected farm, and to report to the Regional Direction of the Tras-os-Montes
(DRTM) on specific aspects of the farming system.
Rural Infrastructure Investments
45.      To ensure greater reliability of access for a larger number of
villages, the project provides for the construction of about 25 new connecting
rural roads of a total length of 80 km, and for the improvement of about 30
connecting roads of a total length of 120 km. These roads have been selected
and the design standards prepared. The project also includes the paving of
streets in 61 villages in the project area.
46.      The project includes the development of about 60 water supply systems
and 65 sewage systems which would serve a population of over 69,000. In-
addition, the project would improve approximately 160 existing water supply



- 16 -
schemes, and, where needed, would provide main pipelines, standpipes, and
community washing tanks. The total population benefitting from the small
schemes is about 48,000.
4v7.     Provision has been made under the project for the construction and
equipment of 60 primary school classrooms to provide school buildings in
cornmunities where none presently exist or where existing buildings are
dilapidated or grossly inadequate. The classrooms provided for under the
project would be for multigrade schools and would serve as the prototype for
future facilities. The proposed classrooms would permit schools in small
rural communities of the project area to be brought up to an adequate standard.
48.      Health Facilities.  The project includes the construction and
equipping of two health centers and 12 health posts and other community
development works, to bring health services to remote mountain areas.  This
would be supplemented by the ongoing National Program for Basic Adult
Education, which offers training in literacy, health, hygiene and nutrition.
49.      The design standards for the non-agricultural rural infrastructure
investments (rural roads, village streets, water supply and sewerage schemes,
and schools) have been prepared with the assistance of the Offices of
Technical Support (GATs), and are acceptable to the Bank. Credit for them
would be extended by Credit Institutions for Municipal Investments (ICIMs) to
municipalities for 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at a constant rate of
interest of 16.75 percent.
Technical Assistance and Training
50.      Water Resources and Irrigation.  Consultants to carry out a back-
ground study and a feasibility study are to be financed under the project.
Groundwater studies would be carried out in potentially favorable locations to
identify sources of more economical water for irrigation, which could lead to
savings in future irrigation investments; the project would finance about
48 manmonths of consultants as well as the drilling of exploratory wells, the
procurement of testing equipment, and the establishment of models, at an
estimated total cost of about $1.5 million. In addition, the project would
finance feasibility studies to investigate the possibility of expanding
irrigation in the Chaves area; the estimated cost is about $790,000 and these
studies are expected to take two years. Furthermore, a study, expected to
cost about $280,000, would examine alternatives of irrigating olive
plantations. The terms of reference for these studies are to be provided to
the Bank for review by March 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
51.      Studies and Research.  The project provides for an estimated 25
research contracts, each costing about $130,000, to carry out agricultural
research. Most of the work will take place on farmers' fields and would cover
such topics as classification of ecosystems for pasture development, livestock
feeding guidelines, testing new crop varieties, constructing one pilot
irrigation scheme in each of the project area's tbree main ecological zones,



- 17 -
etc. It is proposed under the project to set up a special research planning
and coordination team by December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)),
located in the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro, which would
consist of a team leader with sound agricultural research experience, an
agronomist, an animal production/pasture specialist, and a marketing/agro-
industries specialist, each with a similar broad background. The team is to
submit its initial plan for urgent investigations to the Bank by March 31,
1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)). A contract system would allow the
implementing organization to employ qualified research teams from any source
at attractive salaries, without disrupting salary scales within the various
agencies. The research program would be of crucial importance to the success
of the project and would lay the foundation for furtber advances in
agriculture in the region.
52.      Monitoring and Evaluation Units.  Monitoring and evaluation units
would be established within six months after the date of the Loan Agreement,
to carry out baseline socio-economic surveys and increase ongoing monitoring
activities wbich would be closely linked to the needs for data about ongoing
project activies of all agencies involved in implementation, to enable them to
adjust actions or re-allocate resources (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c),
(e)). An internationally recruited specialist in monitoring and evaluation
would be employed for about four months at the start of the project, to assist
in establishing and organizing these units. Thereafter, a specialist would be
employed for two to three months every year to assist in the preparation of
reports and the programming of studies. In addition, 36 manmonths of
fellowships would be provided for monitoring and evaluation staff to be
trained abroad. Monitoring and evaluation staff would prepare semi-annual
progress reports on all components of the project as well as a project
completion report.
53.      Technical Assistance.  Internationally recruited firms or specialists
would be engaged under the project to carry out the groundwater studies, and
to assist with agricultural research planning, animal health, artificial
insemination, management training for credit institutions, concelhos and
cooperatives, and with monitoring and evaluation (paras. 50-52). Approxi-
mately seven manyears would be provided for implementation of the project and
an additional 12 years for the various studies. The costs of internationally
recruited consultants are calculated on the basis of $10,000 per manmonth
including fees, overheads, travel, overseas allowances, subsistance, local
transportation and local office operating expenses. The consultants would be
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
54.      Project Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the project would
be $154.8 million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies. The
proposed loan of $5l million would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs and represents 32.9 percent of total project costs. The local currency
costs would be financed by the Government ($29.2 million), subborrowers for



- 18 -
investments financed through agricultural credit ($6.8 million), contributions
from the credit institutions themselves ($53.1 million); of the latter, IFADAP
would contribute $1.4 million, PBIs a total of $3.7 million and, for the rural
infrastructure investments, ICIMs would contribute $48 million. The
municipalities themselves would contribute $14.7 million to these rural
infrastructure investments. Of total project base costs, about 5 percent
($4.7 million) would be for irrigation rehabilitation; about 27 percent
($26.5 million) for on-farm investments; about 51 percent ($49.8 million) for
rural infrastructure investments; about 9 percent ($9.2 million) for project
organization; and about 7 percent ($7.3 million) for technical assistance
(studies, research, fellowships and consulting services); the balance is
accounted for by contingencies. The project would be exempt from taxes and
custom duties except on civil works which is subject to 5 percent taxes and
duties; this is reflected in the cost calculations. Physical contingencies
are about 4 percent of baseline costs, and price contingencies are
52.5 percent 1/ of the baseline costs and physical contingencies.
55.      Channelling of Loan Funds.  The Government would be the borrower of
the proposed loan and would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Government,
under an agency agreement, would channel about $33 million of the loan through
the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP) to help finance the
agricultural credit component (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)), on terms and
conditions agreeable to the Bank which include a 3 percent commission for
IFADAP. IFADAP would in turn refinance 90 percent of the subloans made by
agricultural credit cooperatives (CCAMs) and 80 percent of the subloans made
by other participating banking institutions (PBIs), at a constant interest
rate of not less than 14.5 percent. IFADAP would also extend direct loans to
sub-borrowers, 90 percent of which would be financed under the proposed loan,
at the same constant interest rate. When the principal of those agricultural
loans is repaid to IFADAP, the amounts not needed by the Government to service
the proposed loan and to cover IFADAP's 3 percent commission would be used by
IFADAP to make further agriculture and agroindustries loans in the project
area (Project Agreement, Section 2.07). The balance of the loan (about $18
million) would be channeled through the operational ministries concerned. The
signing of the agency agreement between the Government and IFADAP would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)).
56.      Project Implementation, Organization and Management.  Overall
responsibility for planning and coordination would rest with the Northern
Regional Coordination Commission (CCRN), whose President has been named
Project Coordinator. To supervise day-to-day project implementation and to
coordinate activities, a Project Administration Unit (PAU) has been set up,
1/ Price escalation estimates assume increases in local currency costs of 18
percent in 1982-1984, and 17 percent per annum thereafter (based on
expected domestic inflation), and in foreign exchange costs of 8.5 percent
for 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983-1985, 6.5 percent per annum thereafter.



- 19 -
headed by the Project Coordinator. The latter is assisted by two suitably
qualified persons as deputy coordinators, each responsible for major aspects
of the project: (1) the Director of Agricultural Services will supervise all
agricultural activities and ensure close liaison witb the agricultural
research unit as well as with the agencies supplying agricultural credit;
(2) the Administrator for Infrastructure will be responsible for overseeing
progress on the rural infrastructure component and will work closely with all
municipalities and GATs, as well as with the ICIMs and the Ministry of
Health. In addition, the Project Coordinator will be assisted by the Rector
of the University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro for the evaluation and
socio-economic studies, the monitoring of project implementation, and for the
agricultural research program. The PAU will be responsible for overall
project coordination.
57.      The Project Coordinator is to organize annual meetings to discuss
witb all implementing agencies progress in project implementation and budgets
for the following year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(d)).
58.      Agricultural Credit Procedures.  The annual interest rate which the
PBIs would receive on the subloans would be 26 percent. This allows them a
margin of about 7 percentage points wbich should be adequate to cover their
administrative costs, provisions for bad debts and reserve needs, and provide
a strong incentive to participate in the project. Farmers would pay to the
PBIs interest on their credits at a constant rate of not less than 14.5
percent. The establishment of such a constant level of interest would be a
tPondition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). The
difference would be covered by interest bonifications granted by the
Government. The interest rates applicable to sbort-term (one-year maturity or
less) agricultural credits have already been raised to 15.5 percent, which
eliminates the previous bias in favor of short-term borrowing. Security in
the form of collateral for investment subloans would include mortgages and
liens on equipment. In case subborrowers cannot provide sufficient security,
IFADAP will provide a supplementary guarantee to qualifying sub-borrowers out
of its guarantee fund established under the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
project (Loan 1603-PO). The operation of this guarantee fund began on April
26, 1982. Fire insurance and participation in the Government's crop and
livestock insurance scheme would be required. Prospective borrowers would,
with the assistance of the DRTM extension service, formulate their loan
applications and direct them to their local PBI, which would review the
application for completeness and verify the general creditwortbiness of the
applicant. The regional offices of the PBI would take over appraisal and
approval responsibility from their head offices for loans not exceeding Esc. 3
million (about $43,000). Subloans in excess of this amount would continue to
require head office approval. Decisions on refinancing would rest with IFADAP
regional offices, whicb will have authority to approve all loans. In addition
to its existing regional office at Vila Real, IFADAP will establisb a branch
office in Chaves by December 31, 1982 and another, within the project area, by
December 31, 1983 (Project Agreement, Section 2.10). Under subsidiary loan



- 20 -
agreements with IFADAP, each PBI would undertake to strengthen its appraisal
capability in the Tras-os-Montes by appointing at least two agronomists and
one financial analyst/economist to its regional office. The effectiveness of
two such subsidiary loan agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of
the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). IFADAP, in coordination with the
National Training Institute in Caldas da Rainha and the Gulbenkian Institute,
would organize appropriate training courses for the staff of PBIs and of the
extension service.
59.      Design.  Detailed designs have been prepared for a substantial part
of the project, although some redesign of water supply and sewerage systems
may be necessary. The staff of the GATs would be expanded to meet the demand
of design and construction supervision (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
60.      Construction of rural infrastructure works would be the
responsibility of the municipalities, assisted where necessary by GATs and
private consultants whose services will be procured domestically. The
construction of the irrigation rehabilitation schemes would be carried out by
DGHEA force account.
Procurement
61.      Earth moving and milking parlor equipment and vehicles (total
estimated cost of about $6.2 million, including price escalation) and the
Friesian heifers to be imported under the project at a total estimated cost of
t5.6 million, would be procured through international competitive bidding
procedures and limited international tendering, respectively, in accordance
witb Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a 15 percent
margin or the actual customs duty, wbichever is lower. Small contracts of up
to $100,000 equivalent may be awarded on a competitive basis to reliable
suppliers after quotations have been obtained, whenever practicable, from at
least three such suppliers. The aggregate expenditure for items so procured
would not exceed $1.0 million equivalent. Small items estimated to cost
$1,000 equivalent and less, tractors, farm equipment and materials would be
purchased from local suppliers, since a limited number is involved and local
outlets offer a wide choice and keen competition. Procurement for the
non-agricultural rural infrastructure investments, against,which no loan funds
would be disbursed, would be in accordance with normal Government procedures.
62.      Operation and Maintenance.  Operation and maintenance (O&M) of small
irrigation schemes would be the responsibility of beneficiary farmers and
municipal councils, with technical assistance from the DRTM. The
municipalities, through their established maintenance procedures, suitably
strengthened, would maintain roads, village streets, water supply and sewerage
schemes, schools and health facilities. Annual O&M costs for all of the above
works are estimated at $600,000. Funds for the maintenance of houses and
vehicles for extension staff would be allocated in the DRTM annual budget.
The annual maintenance cost for houses and buildings would be about $20,000,
while the O&M cost for vehicles is estimated at $367,000. The Government



- 21 -
a,_e'd to take all necessary measures, including strengthening of the GATs and
ensuring that municipalities will plropirly operate and maintain all facilities
provided under the project (Loan Agrfement, Schedule 5(I)(3)(iii)). It would
be a condition of ICIM loans for rural infrastructure that the municipality
involved would present to the ICIM concer- ed a detailed plan for the operation
and maintenance of the facilities to be fiuianced (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(a); Schedule 5(I)).
63.      Disbursement.  Disbursement of the proposed loan would be over a
period of seven years and would be made on the basis of: 100 percent of the
credit extended by IFADAP through PBIs for on farm investments; 90 percent of
the credit extended directly by IFADAP for on farm investmeLlts; 9C. percent of
expenditure for equipment, materials and vehicles, and 70 percent o'- the cost
of civil works for agricultural and agricultural credit services; 80 percent
of expenditures for construction materials for the rehabilitation of irrigation
systems; 80 percent of expenditures for consultants and fellowships, contracts
for agricultural research, and of equipment, vehicles and materials required
for agricultural research studies, pilot projects, and for training.
Disbursement for credits extended by IFADAP would be against statements of
expenditure. Supporting documents will be retained by IFADAP. No amount of
the loan will be disbursed against expenditures for non-agricultural rural
infrastructure investments.
64.      Project Auditing, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Accounts of project
expenditures would be maintained by each of the agencies involved in
implementation and would be audited by Government auditors according to
standard Government practice, wbich is satisfactory. In addition, IFADAP's
project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditing company
acceptable to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). Audited statements
of all project accounts and audited statements of expenditures of IFADAP would
be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03 (b) and Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
65.      Cost Recovery.  Agricultural investments would largely be carried out
with reimbursable credit financing. The credit terms include a subsidy
element (about 3 percent) which is justified by the need to provide specific
incentives to introduce new cropping patterns and farming technology, because
of the high level of poverty in the pIroject area, and because of the existence
of partly competing and externally financed credit lines. For the rehabili-
tation of the irrigation schemes, farmers would contribute to the capital
costs by paying 20 percent of investment costs which constitutes an adequate
farmers' contribution. Operation and maintenance of these irrigation schemes
would be by the farmers themselves. The cost of constructing, operating and
maintaining milking parlors would be recovered in the form of a fee collected
on the basis of the volume of milk processed, or on the number of cows
serviced. Animal health services would be paid for under an animal insurance
scheme to which participating farmers would subscribe. For the non-agricul-
tural investments included in the project, against which no amount of the loan
would be disbursed, the municipalities would ensure that charges for the water



- 22 -
supply and sewerage schemes would be set at a level which would recover, in
full, the O&M costs (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5 (I)(3)(iv)). Servicing of
debt incurred in the construction of rural infrastructure, and the O&M of
the corresponding facilities, would be financed out of funds set aside in the
municipalities' budgets from the Government's annual allocations and from the
municipalities' own resources. Legal provisions exist to protect ICIMs in the
event of inadequate debt servicing on the part of any municipality.
66.      Environmental Effect.  The project would have a significant
beneficial impact on the physical environment and on the population. Improved
water supply systems, roads, bealtb centers and increased production of animal
proteins would reduce existing health hazards, allow easier access to isolated
villages and to health facilities, which would themselves be upgraded, and
would improve human diets and health. Extension agents, trained under the
project, would ensure the safe handling of plant chemicals and would
continuously monitor their impact to limit any adverse effects, which are not
expected.
67.      The Situation and Role of Women.  The substantial migration of men
from the region has resulted in women assuming a more than usually strong role
in the rural areas of the Tras-os-Montes. Women in the region suffer
disproportionately from the weaknesses of basic social services. The project
activities planned in the fields of health care would be oriented particularly
towards women's needs. In addition, the agricultural extension programs which
deal with farm activities in which women are heavily involved would be
implemented by women extension agents whenever possible.
68.      Economic Benefits and Rate of Return.  The project has far reaching
implications both for improving the conditions of rural life and for the
structural transformation of agriculture in the Tras-os-Montes. The main
beneficiaries of the project would be about 6,200 farm families whose incomes
would be raised at full development, by 40 percent to 200 percent. At
present, their average income is below the relative poverty level. In
addition, some 120,000 persons would benefit in varying degrees from
infrastructure investments under the project. The project would improve human
health and living standards, increase agricultural production in the region
and contribute to raising farm incomes. Incremental production resulting from
the project would be dominated by three products, milk, meat, and grapes for
Port wine.
69.      The economic rate of return (ERR) on the project is estimated at
15.8 percent. Sensitivity analysis was applied to test the proposed project
against increases in costs and decreases in benefits. This is dependent on
seven key component assumptions which individually would have to change by
between 60 percent and 300 percent before the ERR would fall below 12 percent.
For example, it would require a 70 percent reduction in the milk price and an
increase of several hundred percent in irrigation investment costs before the
ERR would go below 12 percent. It appears tberefore that the ERR is quite
stable in relation to changes in the most important underlying assumptions.



- 23 -
70.      Risks.  The major risks foreseen have to do with the planning and
rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes, the technical packages available
for agriculture, the pace at which farmers will adopt new practices and
farming systems, and overall project coordination. In order to reduce the
risk of slowing down implementation of the rehabilitation of existing -
irrigation schemes, the planned development has been reduced and phased to
a level considered to be well within the capabilities of the implementing
agencies involved. In an attempt to reduce the possibility of the technical
proposals for agriculture in the region not performing to the expected
standard, the project provides for a strong and well funded agricultural
research component. The task of inducing changes in farming systems rooted in
long traditions is not an easy one; the project tackles it by providing a well
staffed extension service, assisting farmers througb special credit lines, and
finally, by entrusting to DRTM the task of screening farmers who may be
included under the project so that they may provide a good demonstration to
the rest of the region. Overall coordination mechanisms (paras. 52 and 56)
should substantially reduce the risk of project components being implemented
to different, and unrelated schedules, or being excessively delayed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and IFADAP, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are the
conclusions of an agency agreement between the Government and IFADAP, the
effectiveness of at least two of the agricultural credit loan agreements
between IFADAP and PBIs, and the establishment, for the Project, of constant
interest rates for agricultural investment loans at a rate of not less than
14.5 percent (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By M. Oureshi
Attachments
May 20, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUCVAL- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5OES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.l                                                             - 583ST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             92.1                                MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
ACRICULTURAL      40.9              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 350.0       950.0    2180.0                   2609.1                   9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     473.1       951.4   1495.7                    2368.4                  7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8826.0       8628.0   9771.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5        26.2      30.0                     53.2                    76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      11.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       95.8        93.7     106.1                     80.6                   142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTUEAL LAND    182.4       200.2     237.1                    133.9                   523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         29.1        28.4      26.9                     30.1                    22.8
15-64 YRS.                         62.9        61.9      62.9                     61.5                    65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   8.0         9.7       10.2                     8.3                    11.6
PoPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              0.5/c      -0.2/c      1.4                     1,5                     0.8
URBAN                              2.1         1.3       2.9                      3.1                     1.3
CRUDE bIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.1        19.6       18.2                    22.9                    14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      7.5         9.2       9.6                      9.1                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.6         1.5        1.2                     1.6                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FUUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       105.0      80.0                    119.8                   112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  116.0       128.0     126.0                    125.7                   131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          78.0        89.0      83.0                     92.5                    98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        38.0      38.0                     39.7                    62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      5.0         2.6       1.3                      3.4                     0.6
HEALTH
rE!  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   63.3         67.3      70.7                     68.9                    73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           77.5        58.0      38.9/h                   25.2                    12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             28.9        34.5      65.0
URBAN                             82.1          .,      90.0
RURAL                             14.4          ..      56.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1200.0/d    1100.0     698.0                    973.3                   621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1430.07J    1o00.o     502.0                    896.6                   217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            183.0       164.0     187.4                    262.3                   119.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      80.4                    191.8                   120.9
RLRAL                               ,,
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        10.0      13.5                     18.2                     17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE sIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9         3.7
URBAN                              4.0          ..
RURAL                              3.9                                        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.1         0.6
URBAN                              I.O          ..
RURAL                              1.1          ..         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             40.5        64.2
URBAN                             88.5          ..
RURAL                             27.4          ..



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE4 )
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             INDUFSRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                    ..         98.0      117.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                     ..         99.0      119.0                    109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                   ..         96.0      115.0                    102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..         57.0       55.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                     ..         63.0       54.0                     73.2                      83.3
FEHALE                   ..         51.0      56.0                      59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  46.0            34.0       17.0                     28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         34.0       19.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                            19.0         17.0       23.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          62.0         71.0       70.0                     75.4                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.0         63.9      108.3                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           96.1        158.6      167.5                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            5.2         45.1      117.9                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    63.0         86.1       54.7                    123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0             3.0        4.1                      5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL-LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3397.3       3386.7    3761.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.9         24.8       25.8                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                44.1         33.3       24.7                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0          33.2      35.8                      28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  38.5         39.3       38.5                     42.3                      45.7
MALE                                   66.0         62.3       60.2                     56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                                 13.2         18.5       18.9                     28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0        1.0                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            56.1/e,f  56.3_g.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ...                    73
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         20.6e,f  21.4/e,g.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     480.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     480.0                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e Highest
25% and lowest 25% and 50Z of households; /f 1968; /g 1973-74; /h 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $2350 (at 1978-80 prices) and 9836
thousand.
Mav  I QR1



-26 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of S
10209070190S OFPoc SOIAN OICATIPh
oreloqe, usful toumeorott ordererF econituic   oro irene  rends, end  h aesoreric o-rr- in rjod dh-ff.rn.sII.  r-es. 'roft roe
The reerero   group   are   1  ohs s'les  rooto  group of'l nr   jIn    onr ell           erountry.  groutp oL'.heoa.n  hilnr .         eet -  .o.O      e   I.e countY 9 9-0
n. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~EP,.. .b.o..touer   top    o   Cpnlbcu    r1tpres    ru  ..... 'Mdl. onbohAr00edpd  l   er    olnrl0aleoh
eoono-oicorclffnoiteei .  O  th.IEre   .....  d.rsosh.oup         .           rrleiero            Ioto   aso   en   o   ah  I I Ioao   for  ,lcor  onyele
foajrr  of ohs rt uro 0.6 In   gou  h.. d.l. f., oboe ondloatrr.  Si..s the                          Itefg   oin -nns Oc      the  I         I1 irroopede   '.cealsoc    000
nat io'clnursl - ret recre of egrioultorel area.1.  ned torperurIY  - orP"roanen              scI -.ab.Is  ornInaiy  on    c.rlr-    nco   e   opn    r    e
orip,Pateue              t ale  ardkiondher eardare or no lie  feIIIr  197 l;done.               har.taronor  rr.tKsis  oeeir.osIe .pen .o.ni  ...ftffe
ouleosd  nrcatS  roonee nor nar Wf-ce Arni   fAL riaa  (717 7-f  heels); 1960.                 cod nadonolcoor    'repncenc    nf70ho                      rs a  (hut hoI
1971, toO  1979 data.                                                                                      0 ..icl  oeeatrooo   uufa   o.1r I   f  oorrier  u  ro
iaifadPr-odeI iircod  -roog         I --redlc2  aoire           i   005
YOOO  COrSTlIf O.dt  PER CA121Ao  - cAuoI  rn- ennor o        - -nterol enery         1 ho;oa  proe1urnneirl   n ld   lC   oo-rcpai/-sne,I h,s  itls,,
frly   i   oogeso ..a..          uuilIf.   re  -apoi; ibtO, 1970, sod lb'9                             ooae.oeiinddrori   r   nlndolyne    ue
fPt'LAfI0 AN di00L1 STATISTICS
Orosi  or'cinivo.hid-bar (onodAhis  -As or SoIl I; 1960. iSf0, end 1079                  00o;s2ee  Coeosnhno,jfreje    ocecd   - ora  _.non   cI "msI,-
ergoonrnee     1990, 1977, Isf0197  deo..                                                        eha IIuaehold foosa Orie1  oos
Potulosion Prcfeotinoe                                                       9yo&LtbmbfldfAe9trpL.1t.,~~..    ~...no...utbino..snd...oir.fA)  -dAA-r.9e Is-
or   Ifat  errfy   rh                                   it orccn  oi    rur   pero tlr   Inrote  Aoee      o fleu    itsla.fr--    ofdr     Rlia) - ro0jor-a..an  .i.i. I
isoe. err  isnasl  Oilssplsc    rsiioga   75  ar. Tep                                                Cooroer"Itoa   IoIoe  'u(ocseiof  ollo    urer   apfsrg
feriliy tcoe  Or  nonnoee   .ne  en'd Past fcsIlp PI.r_ing P.rorc,       s
fEobh ro-oy II th-rra -igor ore rfICFee  o    ohiair  ri  rociCy                                ftiAi
cod fertnility t-ede  . irt oro)e Ietcn  po Ies.A'cCetroltraio
ocrnceooretann.   Thie  Os sorosoef~~.  only efeet., iiyfne   eI nsCrprocpefn  -g    ruo  on'    ooiof1ous                                                  ode   gdfl
ooroo rebel.                                                                                    eduieti.rordsq'o.ri .  F t.  ..   ..P-ir.set  bleae   fou  peso t. offaprne   piofm thurE ir
hea  erhe torer 2OOiulsCio  is. -.-eld.  Iira  feo  o-dlnero      - ettonr   p-pularoroie   gc t, I                              1,orocirel   orL essrha  -trsonor   Irst  l-ot; fr'pdI
enee bee been  -eched.                                                                                 -suely of 1l fo 17 pears of age;n  -res-deocnre    -r  ge-.r. lip
Per cc.  Ar, sarioulcoral land  -~~C .optda   bv   forcgrnuduoa  la                             etly Or usdeprsneo.endayrs  tOrs
1ain    9t0, 1970. end 1979 deta,                                                                 Adul1 lte1    o   rats  (s.oc... t- Liosrsei.ldts  (eble tored and Ones)
Ponuisroo  CrotCh rte  irerosof -toni-'t Anous     1, go th -nc   of  irel end-                 asepoeog    f total  idut population  cgd 15 pears ro d r.f.
yerppliosfin L050-6l, i960-70,Iad 1970-79.
Pousinlneh he. ho     - -cren      --ebro -non-    grotlo rare. of urb-r  pop-               COiPSCGTIOO
etocfur 1909        1960-70, en   Of-9.sesstOasfEr thosn  ooIoSnlv       eesionooer                                                                                             oo
CrdeClthCie  ne                           ,:oer)-   ooe  line births Per rhoseor of rtd-ro..r           iseeero   lee   che  egfr    e50 r.ue.shlrs,  ers   n
popaion; 1960, itO7 cd  179 dare.lt   -hiorpellle..
CrUde -sr   hRe  I(osr-   uarlth       oraioece  e  roua Ac o  ol-yostrRadi  tesosstorrhucd   oulrirl-All rypse of o..a.ro-e  for redio
.popoletloo   1990, 1971,ed17  Air,l dbreadITthrests    i                                                                Er gIoer P; Ioi  psoohousso   od PopIei                      ..lds    n
tilitny rstss; u...sily fnvs-Y-pernaatesdteg  it 1560,~19701,tld 1979'.                                oerorhsbilnd taeicng
zini      laolorAoseoaI-oaos I  2 Ibuaoe-   nsI tnse    fiopoeI  Re.Iturer  toa  IChoused reouliticl-   TV  -soe-osr  for broadrIeaI  to
oF bionir-onnerI deroires  -rAseoeI        tsofioo l feaily pI-oirg  prge.gnrlpblio  pse thrneo  ppinoo r-oOeuliine    V  eenr
lenl  ysronsCer   lcosf  fearodaosr  -Prorng o_crie                                            noofrOsan  I  yeeY 1c.rsierinr  f1h-sr
ofchild-bcaring ags (15-01yas4          rouebirbooridnosonrsee    iolnIn(e   huadonlyn                                                                 I-Shr  ths evareu   rIr-
pobli-l -n  d--red poisarlif1 orr-rdio    gIte rr.l  ir co-stde..d
rOOD LIM1 n'01607r0N                                                                                        ri he  'dOily'' if iet       sesa   least  four nOos  soss
priunno   ofeI Afr   rcdile.Podo1yerlodese  adfs   ndCnIe  olddurogthepee,   ooldoosdleeor   no droe-l   ritref
it 00 otleodre  fisO besoc.   Coinodrroseoonsr ~~~~~~~~~proery  goods  IE S'ougro.r       -d sobtil  -rite.
oeedof suga) fhith to  edible and -orcnrurirr   (eg.tffas sod
fee  n         :d fuded)  . Aggreg..ne p-oduitir if..so.h....r tty    b.s.d o                     ABOR FORCE                                                                   _i
noinl ArsiePrduirpro sioe   ..t.-...190en  0979..                  da...ot  Labo ~rPoa lobohuceore)  -                               .oo..slysoo.g..                icudn
enrg-   oonIeo   f  c  food oupplise co-ie.bls in  -roroy re-  orpitra                               n.ns...g populrino    Al ega.05 uIn oeI   siu    o                              r
p-o doo.  oa-hnble fuppliceropre   doeorprfoir    leptn  lee                                         for  .rep..rebl.  1960, 1970 and  09749  Iists.
copvti,toddino,  n eon ~   hn sppllessonudienrot   eed  esede,                           Peters      ..o.roete   - P-1ralt  bor fI.o.e   pecoes  fttllao   n
screere senicaned hy PAP base.d0  py lgoico5fofIoI _olIati-                                      fIshing es pPoe--og   of rore  labor fi-e; 1961, r970 and 1979 Oars.
rooty ord  oselth  -onard-logenirf        tr .....srre  body -erghos,  Rgs                         Ordonr      een          _abrdm   On  .oug....oiCo   eoforr
bcuschrll lepe;tl;96I-65, 1970. and 1977 dare.                                                       1972co  1979 dara.
non aupply  uf fod par day.  9cr sPpY offotsdnnraeno, r-enIcctrre    r                                                         topvs tsen l. nol., ard f .e..   Onto 1 ons
qur...no    fo  .ll   .vors    sbliehed by 0100 pronidc f.o elnoec                                  Iaooae    fmd,cbadfcl    opliIno    l   gsrseovl
e.ooo      ....t.eor.o   o           Pe oo In  e  day mA I 1-.gon  of antil end             rt, 170,edi1    es                 hc   r   aed0   t  5pritalOe
puls   prosn,o  rnih 10 foo-  should n  ecO tO 0tc. O.h..eo.e.nd-                                    r"innag-esrIouI 0r oh coonlao.sd long ti,e   reof.A
erd .r.lneth_noh..e  of 7     -f ereelno1 prnnrlrardligtanecf                                   Peoseiltooc        "1d tor    roneinlao     Ie.
,.,Id Poo  Su-os; ~161-O,170rd17dae                                                                  to  the  oro 1lah-  i,ronI
Par -p000  orot.io  cvooln  fno sole    au   u  sPr-rin  epply of food Ic-
rorod ftovo rinol  soI       us.II     a       e   a,1990-hf ,1970 erA  1077 dais.              INCnOME 1I0T010L00I0N
frias ton  d-roror  loon life  tchbie c 1960, 1970 sod 1979 dire,                                      ofhoaholde.
HEALTHl                                                                                                I       .OVPlA lolE G100000
Life Forsoocop 50 fhrolInsane) - uosnegs 'cobr of pear.  f life  oscaitolotTh. fol11ni.g ae-i r-                  rtoeyaonooorne               -oc    f Po_.erY Ir-ol
oo limb l 1060. 1970 nod 1079 droc.                                     .    ac~~.d clocold 10it.P-~ onr trnr     'P- ....c.... ". Zoanor
of eg   e   hn.sId lope births.                                                                        Ahenloh   poo-rtr  inor .-          l   h:lcc   ore   en   lc       bro
Inneeon  9f.! Woc    ootto   nua  o;-nrl   oc. drrl-rN.-                                                  'inonnlYadrsuoaor   y.1iOothoi110  ror-drod1oroylrrnoh   0i0 not
oterro -r onldee  or-crtd  e-fcoateo  inoe                     u  'nonoltd                   Ee-ne-d hecolo  0000   Inie (m.(0   00npoe    ohnadue 
ooc   co   s  hnfospoooc    .of           .lt     I.soo.. t  dcnnl   als   sOrleat'rproo   nct                                            n c   o-I hid of --cog  Perl -Pine
nfblrrprovropuunrs         rscbrccrphlnpnerl  roceornrcorn y   Cln  reIilervdion  le,ua
fnnoOnennpooocolnOoonf'ciC   cer   onoivsopelasonldllanhrrrgePon.licroP.oroe
d0   I., 500   toonena d  dOnei(cp rnro-ui-    crupornoo-lofeYi.rb-nh'ndnot r
"Ioeoeas  o  Ie...  .. p .n.. pip.          r .  s..   o.....   ..ep..r. oy Includr
nbc1 1   I,-eco   cod diaposel1, rlrth onbon  ocroeoh-o  lonerrobe                                                                              E-roiO  ond (n-lol Dil  Ilhioinn
rod  -,tnt-oto  Op oorer-b-roe  sroro   no  he  -i  of pit prroies rod elaio                                                               uneclool    r  Preror pror
Popla  Io  nr  hrocrro- Ooclolonvoovd  byd b nuoher n       poa  -tiir  pcc9
ot1n   quld    o f-. ro-dtnIocdloal orlonotsI ur...no..  lend...-              --



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DE'£ELOPME'!T DATA
(Ax.o.nts in Millions of US Dollars)
Actual                                                                              Share of GDP at
1980                    Annual Growth Rate (2)                            Market Prices (Current Prices)
($l=Esc. 53.0)    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980             1960   1970   1975   1978   1979   1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a!                 22,740         0.7   -3.7    9.0    5.6    3.2    4.5    5.5           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                             -1.8   -2.7      1.5  -10.0    4.0    9.0    3.0          22.7   16.1   14.1   11.6   12.7   11.5
Industry                                                 4.0   -9.3    4.3   10.4    3.3    3.9    5.8            34.5   37.3   38.9   33.4   37.5   36.1
Services                                                 0.8    1.6   15.8    6.6    2.5    3.8    6.0            35.4   36.2   37.9   46.6   42.2   43.4
Consumpcion b/                            20,294        10.3    1.2    3.1    3.3    1.1    2.3    4.7            87.8   83.3   96.1   88.7   88.0   89.2
Gross lnvestsent                           5,707        -6.1  -45.7   30.5   28.8   -4.7   -2.1   12.1            18.5   23.5   16.3   23.1   22.2   25.1
Exports of GNFS                            6,392       -15.7  -13.2    4.8    6.8   14.6   27.4    8.2            16.6   23.4   19.6   19.9   25.8   28.1
Imports of GNFS                            9,653         4.8   26.7   17 5   13.1   -1.8    7.8    9.6            22.9   30.2   32.2   31.8   36.1   42.4
Gross National Savings                     2,446       -35.4  -39.2   13.7   28.4   16.9   21.6   11.1            16.7    9.3   18.9   21.8   12.0   10.8
Prices
Rate of Inflation                                     27.4   20.4   18.3   27.3   22.1   24.2   16.8
Exchange Rate c/                                      25.4   23.6   30.2   38.2   43.9   49.8   53.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                              Annual Data at Current Prices f/                                  As Percent of Total f/
Imports                                                                                                           1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Food                                                   903    892    862    888    865  1,106  1,270            19.5   23.1   20.0   17.9   16.5   17.0   13.7
Other Primary                                          531    371    490    656    565    739    977            11.4    9.6   11.4   13.2   10.8   11.4   10.5
Fuel                                                   584    589    692    737    826  1,267  2,243            12.6   15.2   16.0   14.8   15.8   19.5   24.1
Capital Equipment                                    1,194    967  1,066  1,301  1,464  1,648  2,333           25.7   25.0   24.7   26.2   28.0   25.3   25.1
Other Manufactures                                   1,429  1,045  1,206  1,382  1 509  1 749  2 469            30 8   27.0   27.9   27.8   28.9   26.9   26.6
Total                                                4,641  3,864  4,316  4,964  5,229  6,509  9,293          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Exports
Agricult-ral Products                                  363    324    307    330    371    489    552 d/   16.2   16.8   17.1   16.5   15.6   13.8   11.9 d/
Wood and Co-k Products                                 360    306    345    359    371    570    810            16.1   15.8   19.3   17.9   15.6   16.1   17.5
Textiles, Clothing and Footwear                        672    578    524    594    774  1,193  1,341            30.0   29.8   29.3   29.6   32.5   33.6   29.0
Machinery and Transport Eqsipnent                      285    254    226    297    321    426    625            12.8   13.1   12.6   14.8   13.5   12.0   13.6
Other                                                  558    474    388    421    542    872  1.288            24.4   24.5   21.7   21.2   22.8   24.6   28.0
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                     2,238  1,936  1,790  2,001  2,379  3,550  4,616           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MERChANDISE TRADE INDICES                                                   1975=100
Export Price Index                                      99    100    106    142    173    224    277
Import Price Index                                      91    100    112    144    178    236    306
Terms of Trade Index                                   109    100       95      98     98      95      91
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                           A. Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
C.rrent Receipts                                      77.8   93.2  127.1  173.6  212.2  264.3   361.8           23.0   24.8   27.2   27.9   27.2   2
Current Expenditures                                  76.5  102.6  153.3  182.1  238.5  302.2   407.0           22.6   27.3   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7   33.8
Current Surplus/Deficit (-) of the State               1.3   -9.4  -26.2   -8.5  -26.3  -37.9   -45.2            0.4   -2.5   -5.6   -1.3   -3.4   -3.9   -3.8
Capital Expenditures (Net)                             7.1   12.4   19.3   34.5   39.1   42.7    64.8            3.4    4.4    5.0    6.4    5.0    4.3    5.4
Net F--ancisg Requirements                             5.8   21.8   45.5   43.0   65.4   80.6   110.0            1.7    5.8    9.7    8.0    8.4    8.2    9.1
Fonanciog Needs                                        8.3   17.4   48.9   44.7   75.8   97.1                    2.4    4.6   10.4    7.2    9.7    9.9
Debt Amorti-ation                                     -2.5    4.4   -3.4   -1.7  -10.4  -16.5                   0.7    1.2    0.7    0.3    1.3    1.7
LABOR FORCE                          .                                   TOTAL LABOR FORCE e/
Annua I
In Thousands                                Percent of Total                    Growth Rate(x)
1974    1977    1978    1979    1980              1974   1977   1978   1979    1980               1979-80
Agriculture               1,300   1,263   1,187   1,174   1,155              34.5   33.4   31.8   30.9    29.8                 -1.4
Industry                  1,307   1,250   1,283   1,330   1,382              34.7   33.0   34.3   35.0    35.6                  3.9
Services                  1,160   1,273   1,266        294   1,347           30.8   33.6   33.9   34.1    34.7                 +4.1
Total                   3,767   3,786   3,736   3,798   3,887             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                  2.3
a/  At market prices.  Sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Statistical discrepancy is i,,cluded in the consumption data.
c/  Exchange rate at end 1981 US$1=Esc. 65.0.
d/  Estimated.
e/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
ft Data for years before and after 1975 are not fully comparable because of a revised
definition of ontermediate and capital goods.
(dU40G)



- 28 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Anounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual
SLMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS           1973    1974    1975    1976   _1977    197       179    1980
Exports (F.0,B.)                     1,843  2,238  1,936  1,790  2,001  2,379   3,550  4,616
imports (F.OB.)4                     2,745   j77  3,606  3,965  4,33  4, 787  6 182  8 667
Trsue Balance (X-M)                    -902 -2,039 -1,670 -2,175 -2,532 -2,408 -2,632 -4,051
Net Non-Factor Service                 67     -74   -17U       54       82     276     541     596
Touriosm Receipts (Gross)           (550)  (513)  (360)  (327)  (403)  (592)
Re.duvre Balance                     =-8 -2,113 -l,839  -2,12l -2=,  -2,132 -2,091 -3,455
Net investment Income a/                 86     129     -14    -133    -179    -329    -437    -608
Net Tranaters b/                     1,097   1,111  1,037       964  1,134   1,635  2,476   3,015
B4,aoce on burrent Account              348   -873   -817 -1,290 -1,495    -826          -52 -1,048
Direcr Foreign Investment               110     109     122       51      52      56      59      100
Chan4es in Official Liquid
9'oreign Lxchange Reserves
(- - Increase)                   -345      554     688      126     359   -103      -68       58
UffLCial r.eserveo
(raes End of Year c/               2,839  2,354   1,534   1,301   1,391   1,880   1,951   1,815
Or which;  Gold                    1,163  1,193   1,136   1,125   1,025   1,009   1,020   1,020
Foreign Excnange    1,641   1,125        390     166     366      871     931     795
GhRNT AND LOAN COMMITrMENTS                                                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/   1975    1976    1977   ;978    1979    1980
ufficial Grants and Grant-like          -                3      -        -       -       -            Total Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed -
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                       Public Debt Only             1,052   1,337  2,178  3,859  4,785  5,090
13RD                                 -                -       36      74     131      143     134  Interest on Public Debt            37      41       74     148     310    441
LDA                                  -                        -       -       -        -       -   Repayments on PUblic Debc    74           101     138     245      402     528
other Nultilateral                     1               4     123      87       86      69      96  Total Public Debt Service    011          142      213     393     713     968
Governmnents                           7              71     124     314     915      237      91
SupplAiers                          207               55      41      62       53       1    106  Public Debt Service Ratio            3.5    5.1    5.9    9,5   12.9   13.6
Financial Markets                    74               91     388     396     744      700     659
Puolic Loans ne.i.                   -                -       -       -      - -       -
rotai Public M&LT Loans                51       ;      224    71-      93   1,929  1,150  1W   Average Terns of Public Debt
(Grant Element)                 9.1   11.1   12.9    4.5    -2.8    0.4
Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31. 1980                Interest on Public Debt 0          7.9      7.6    7.4    8.9   10.8   10.3
"ITENNAL DEbT                               Disbursed On1                               Percent
IBRD                                             109                                     2.0          Amortization  as % Prior Year
IDA                                               -                                       -             Public D00D                        -      9.6   10.3   11.2   10.4   11.0
Other Multilaterai                               359                                     6.7          IBRD Debt Outstanding and
Governments                                    1,369                                    25.4             Dieburmed                      39.0   35.6   32.2   36.1   63.1  109.4
Suppliers                                        385                                     7.1          IBRD DOD as X Public Debt
Financial Markets                              2,868                                    53.3            Outstanding and Disbursed    3.7    2.7           1.5    0,9       1.3    2.1
Private Norn-Guaranteed Debt                     297                                     5.5          IBRD Debt Service as I
lotal Publi.  and Private M&LT Debt              5,387                                   100.0             Public Debt Service              5.7     4.3      3.1    1.9      1.8    2.0
a/  Largely interest payments.
b/  Largely workers' remittances.
c7 Gold, National Valuation: Special Drawing Rights, 35 per fine troy ounce and converted to US dollars at current rates.
December 1980 stock of 22.13 million ounces would give about $9 billion, valued at $400 per ounce.
d/  Debt service as a ratio of earnings from exports, non-factor services end workers' remittances.
No available.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
February 26, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
($ million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan                                                     Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year     Borrower                Purpose            Bank          Undisbursed
Six loans for power development and one for
industrial finance fully disbursed                     139.5          -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal       Highways                 24.0        8.7
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal       Water Supply            40.0        34.0
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal       Education I              21.0       20.3
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal       Agricultural Credit    70.0         69.4
1649 1979 Quimica de Portugal E.P.  Fertilizer Industry    58.0          21.0
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal       Highways II             40.0        38.4
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal       Small and
Medium Industry        45.0        39.9
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal       Education II            40.0        40.0
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal       Forestry                 50.0       47.7
1874 1980 COMETNA a/                 Mechanical Industry    33.4         31.3
1875 1980 SOREFAME a/                Mechanical Industry    10.6          7.2
1942 1981 Second Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional                   Finance               100.0        97.4
2024 1981 PETROGAL                   Petroleum Exploration  20.0         20.0
TOTAL                                             691.5 b/   475.3 b/
of which has been repaid                          59.3
TOTAL now outstanding                             632.2
Amount sold                          2.6
of which has been repaid           2.5             0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank c/                         632.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                              475.3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Year        Obligor              Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1981    Investment Company      Development Finance    10.0       1.5     11.5
of Portugal               Company
a/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
b/ This does not include the $30 million Industrial Energy Conservation and
Diversification loan scheduled for consideration by the Executive
Directors in June 1982.
c/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I Project; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Despite start-up delays in procuring equipment, appointing con-
sultants, and preparing subprojects, all aspects of the project are now pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The road rehabilitation components and the procure-
ment of equipment are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983. The
national transport plan and the highway master plan are substantially
completed. A second extension of the closing date is likely to be requested.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The main physical component of the project, a 90 km transmission
pipeline, is progressing although with considerable delays, as is work on the
related pumping stations which is also behind schedule. A solution is being
sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem despite some improve-
ment. A new Board for EPAL was appointed in January 1982; in addition, new
company statutes were approved in May 1981 which should serve to reorganize
EPAL into an autonomous entity with clearly defined authority and responsi-
bilities. Tariffs were increased again in March 1982 by about 45 percent on
average.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
A general public service moratorium on hiring personnel (to contain
the growing budget deficit) delayed design work. This delay combined with
initial site acquisition problems caused considerable slippage in
physical implementation. Architectural designs for all project institutions,
including management training centers, are now underway. Equipment lists
have been substantially completed and procurement is underway.   Technical
assistance is being recruited on schedule; studies have been substantially
completed. Based upon satisfactory steps taken by the Government to initiate
project work in 1981, the closing date was extended by one year to Decem-
ber 31, 1982. If implementation continues to progress satisfactorily, a
further extension of the closing date will be considered.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
porgress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is
practically completed. The groundwater survey and the fish stock assessment
survey are substantially completea.  i tuject implementation for the fisheries
component is progressing although z. is about a year behind the original
schedule. The credit scheme for farm development in the Alentejo has only
recently been initiated. Excess liquidities in the banking system have so
far sharply limited recourse to IFADAP refinancing. The Government and the
Bank are in the process of reviewing the credit mechanisms.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1,1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Altbough six months behind schedule, physical project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily, with the urea plant already commissioned
and the Alverga nitric acid plant undergoing start-up tests. Procurement of
Bank-financed equipment is 71 percent completed and the corresponding loan
funds are 96 percent committed. The fertilizer study has been completed.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a slow start, progress on rehabilitation works is now pro-
gressing. Training programs are under preparation. Budgetary constraints
are beginning to delay project implementation.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A revision in the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for
Industrial Estates (EPPI) has been made to ensure better returns on invest-
ment; however, EPPI is experiencing delays in budget support and construc-
tions works. The technology study and procurement on other technology items
is progressing well. The textile study has been completed. A substantial
amount of the SMI credit line has been committed. Participating banks have
shown renewed interest in the credit line, due mainly to the Central Bank
taking steps to facilitate the use of the credit line.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: July 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established and project
implementation is now progressing well. Most of the equipment lists have
been completed and procurement is underway. Inter-ministerial working com-
mittees are working well which should improve implementation of the civil
works components. Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under
development. Implementation of the technical assistance program is on
schedule.
Loan 1853 - Forestry Project; $50 Million Loan of October 2, 1980; Effective-
ness Date: March 2, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The Project Coordination Unit has been established and is working
effectively. Satisfactory progress is being made on the acquisition of land
and the afforestation program. Procurement of equipment for the 1981-1983
afforestation seasons is completed. Despite initial delays, the technical
assistance program is now going well. The Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Fund (IFADAP) is gearing up to process subloans to cooperatives and/or
associations of private forest owners soon.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Project; $33.4 Million Loan to
COMETNA and $10.6 Million Loan to SOREFAME of October 2, 1980; Effectiveness
date: December 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Physical implementation of the COMETNA project, originally progres-
sing well, has been delayed up to six months due mainly to a change in site
location. Site preparation is now well underway and procurement is progres-
sing well. Physical implementation of the SOREFAME project is on schedule
and progresing well; all equipment packages have been procured and the man-
agement study has been completed. The engineering industries subsector study
is substantially completed. Technical assistance components are proceeding.
Loan 1942 - Second Banco de Fomento Nacional Project; $100 Million Loan of
March 27, 1981; Effectiveness date: June 16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Appraisal of subprojects and commitments are underway; however,
BFN's portfolio and arrears position remain a problem. The export promotion
plan is underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 2024 - Petroleum Exploration Project; $20 Million Loan of September 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: March 1, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, with the
second seismic survey in progress and key technical assistance in place.
Drilling is expected to be delayed to August 1982 because of the long lead
time required to procure drilling contracts and critical drilling equipment
in presently tight markets; however, this delay is not expected to be detri-
mental to PETROGAL.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
TRAS-OS-MONTES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to                   About two years from May/June
prepare project:                            1978 to September 1980
(b) Agency which prepared the project:             FAO/CP and Government
(c) Date of first presentation to the              January 1979 and
Bank, and date of first mission             March 1979
to consider the project:
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                    November 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:            April 30, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 31, 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) signing of an agency agreement between the Government and the
Agriculture and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP) (paras. 55
and 72);
(b) the effectiveness of at least two loan agreements for agricultural
credit, satisfactory to the Bank, between IFADAP and participating
banking institutions (PBIs) (paras. 58 and 72); and
(c) the establishment of constant interest rates at a level of not less
than 14.5 percent for agricultural investment loans under the
Project (paras. 58 and 72).



- 35 -
2.      Undertakings of the Government include:
(a) establishing a project agricultural extension service and a
project animal bealth service, staffed and operated as
proposed (para. 44);
(b) preparing, by March 31, 1983, detailed terms of reference for
the Chaves Irrigation feasibility Study and for the olive
development study (para. 50);
(c) establishing an agricultural research planning and
implementation unit, as proposed, which will submit to the
Bank its initial plan for urgent investigations by March 31,
1983 (para. 51);
(d) setting up project monitoring and evaluation units within six
months after the date of the Loan Agreement (para. 52);
(e) appointing consultants to assist in the project, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 53);
(f) expanding the technical staffs of the Offices of Technical
Support (GATs) as required under the project (para. 59).
3.      Undertakings by IFADAP include the establishment of a branch
office in Chaves by December 31, 1982 and of a third branch office in
the project area by December 31, 1983 (para. 58).






IBRD 15736
74M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~5~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:70                                                *5      0 
"9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J13~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   -Z                           9, C;~~,                                         -
~~~  1    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~                      4~~~~~~~~~~~cKwI R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  41W  J   {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
mOO   p,~p.,o4  ~'4~4                                                                                                                        OLO0f C.,
~/tO~4.~   4  ~  .,.~9  4~ 4~5~4*4 , G-11              i
0104 dO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4bt44,44,44  /  op~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  -> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      1
800    7~~~~~~~4S               r40 p4                                              ThOU                      oflop                    9.-sO                     9.49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7






*1)                     4rI4r Lr      >-g 
PORTUGAL
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 5FA,%                         004               trD8Sf*X    TRAS-0-MONTES
<         ^ L G E  N A   , _  (      VIANAD%CASTEWL             ,-r i 
A ~A0IAI      0                                                                        W  R
VIHPOAOO.        _-                                  i  °    i   .yO6URA          S
? COMB /' U /~RAS- lbTEtK/>
FlAltR.AA                                                   -'.             A          /
or ~~~ ^ ' CASTELtE~~0iRAGAD @4
, ILA REAL    tF              RAA~
%           /         LZIRIA I      \   WJ~~~"'  /                  C'         J S3
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _ _                                                                90 |  El ICrlr         >K     -
PORTO      o               0A/ 
D                                A
Cr  I ~~~~~~~~~A IRO
t<  A)    <                     _  NO S                                                       D
$i   CoiaS4aRa't  C E N T E R,!                                  00 M -
1   1                                             'NTAREM
/         Sx      /                  g      t    /  gEGRE >.A't                                                  RCA
'T             LISBOA jJXXTelrZi°
.                           ~~~~~~SETUBAL -kA T7s_                          
0                   -,        CA'~ ~~~~ --                         -1    T
MARl0               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRA-
COWRAC PAR od C COIMBRA                                                                     M  TNH   E  eCYA    eR
0000                                                                                    CATL   BRANS ,   - (s,    ''>^O  /  /  mne..
C         RAINA, LU\mO4°f0                                           -  -    INT-ATI-AL
CO~~ ~ ~ MO             A 0                                                           ; R AM EAC 
-3FARO                                                                 \              3, 3 O4
0"mr ,hznE~m ACACAREM   SANTAREM  ;2 0C%mAFA                        'C1
-~~~~~~~~~U                 [; PORTE7r 6ZqR LOR  (C-






-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~- 
7 c      ~w 
z  Z ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~ 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
. ......                                                                                                                                Ih~~~- ~ .:::. X~C
KC ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o  &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   ....
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~......    .....
I' ~ ~    . .  . .      . . . . ...                        .     . . . . . . .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0 ~~~~~                   ~~                ~       . . . . .   . . .
6L .Lsnon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~..........
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                  . . . . . .  .   . . . . . . .



