ILOAN NUMBER 2175 PO
Loan Agreement
(Tras-Os-Nontes Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPNENT
Dated                   \)           , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2175 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    1        0     , 1983, between REPUBLIC
OF PORTUGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Insti-
tuto Finangeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e
Pescas (hereinafter called IFADAP) as agent of the Borrower, and
the Borrower will make available to IFADAP parts of the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and IFADAP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTIGLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and IFADAP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "IFADAP Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IFADAP pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the IFADAP Agency
Agreement;
(c) "PBI" means a banking institution established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower referred to in Section
2.02 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement;
(d) "PBI Loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into by IFADAP, acting as agent of the Borrower, and a PBI,
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time with the approval of
the Bank, for the purpose of relending to such PBI a portion of
the Loan;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by IFADAP, acting as agent of the Borrower and on its own
behalf, or by a PBI, to a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project
and, in case of loans made or proposed to be made by a PBI under
Part B.1 of the Project, in which IFADAP, acting as agent of the
Borrowe:, has agreed to participate by relending to such PBI
proceeds of the Loan under a PBI Loan Agreement;
(f) "Sub-borrower" means the borrower under a Sub-loan;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower, utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;
(h) "CCAM" means Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo, an
agricultural credit cooperative established under the laws of the
Borrower;
(i) "ICIM" means any financial institution providing credit
to municipalities under Part B.2 of the Project;
(j) "Project Administration Unit" mf ns the unit to be
established within CCRN pursuant to Se f inn 3.05 of this
Agreement;
(k) "Project Area" means the area comprising the following
concelhos:


﻿Chaves, Montalegre, Boticas, Valpagos, Vila Pouca de Aguiar,
Braganca, Miranda do Douro, Vimioso, Vinhais, Alfandega da Fe,
Carrazeda de Ansiges, Mirandela, Maqedo de Cavaleiros, Vila
Flor, Vila Real, Alijo, Sabrosa, Aurga, Santa Marta de Penagui2o,
Mes?o Frio, Peso da Regua, Lamego, Sgo Jo2o da Pesqueira,
Tabuago, Moimenta da Beira, Resende, Cinf2es, Armamar, Tarouca,
Penedono, Sernancelhe, Freixo de Espada a Cinta, Mogadouro,
Torre de Moncorvo and Vila Nova de Foz Coa;
(1) "CCRN" means Comissao de Coordenacao da Regiao do
Norte, established by Decree Law No. 494/79 of the Borrower, dated
December 21, 1979;
(m) "DGHEA" means Direcyao Geral de Hidraulica e Engenharia
Agricola, established by Decree Law No. 211/79 of the Borrower,
dated March 28, 1979;
(n) "DRTM" means Direcgao Regional de Tras-os-Montes,
established by Decree Law No. 221/77 of the Borrower, dated
March 28, 1977;
(o) "GAT" means Gabinete de Apoio Technico, established by
Decree Law No. 58/79 of the Borrower, dated March 29, 1979;
(p) "FENACAM" means Federagao Nacional das Caixas de
Credito Agricola Mutuo, established by Decree Law No. 69/81 of the
Borrower, dated April 7, 1981;
(q) "Municipalities" means any of the concelhos specified in
paragraph (k) of this Section, established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower; and
(r) "Escudo" or "Esc," means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-one million dollars ($51,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. IFADAP is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of
Part B.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and


﻿-5-
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for that purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause IFADAP to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the IFADAP Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of fund-, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
IFADAP to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(ii) provide to PBIs incentives to participate in the
Project, including adding amounts refinanced
under the Project to the credit ceiling of the
PBI concerned.
(c) The Borrower shall make an amount equivalent to
$32,800,000, out of the proceeds of the Loan, available to IFADAP
under an agency agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and IFADAP, under terms and conditions which shall have been
agreed with the Bank, including inter alia, that IFADAP shall
retain a commission of 3% of the principal amount of the loans
made to PBIs and Sub-loans made to Sub-borrowers out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the IFADAP
Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the IFADAP Agency
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the ICIMs: (i) to
provide credit to Municipalities in the Project Area for the
purposes specified in Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in
accordance with the statement of operations and policies set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) to enable representa-
tives of the Bank to review and discuss with officers of the ICIMs
the progress of Part B.2 of the Project, including the plans,
-programs, reports, financing plans and designs to be furnished by


﻿-6-
the Municipalities to the ICIMs and the ICIMs' operations in
connection therewith.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the provision of credit
to Municipalities by ICIMs under Part B.2 of the Project shall
not be affected by credit ceilings otherwise applicable to ICIMs.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall assign such duly qualified
and experienced staff in the Project Area for its GATs and CCRN,
as well as for its ministries responsible for agriculture and
health, as required for carrying out or assisting in carrying out
the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain, until completion
of the Project, for the purpose of coordinating and expediting
the carrying out of the Project, a Project Administration Unit
with duly qualified and experienced staff headed by the Project
Coordinator, assisted by two Deputy Coordinators; this Unit shall
be responsible for overall project coordination, including staff-
ing and training as well as monitoring and evaluation, ensuring
timely implementation of the non-agricultural as well as of the
agricultical components of the Project, including studies.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) cause to be estab-
lished by June 30, 1983 and thereafter maintain until the comple-
tion of the Project, a research planning and coordination team
under the authority of the Project Coordinator, the Rector of the
University of Tras-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the Director of
DRTM, to prepare and furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1983 or
such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, for its comments a plan of applied research for the devel-
opment of the Project Area, including recommendationb for the
execution of the Plan, and to review and supervise the carrying
out of said plan; such team to consist of duly qualified and
experienced staff in sufficient numbers. For purposes of carrying
out said Plan, the Borrower shall cause its CCRN to be provided


﻿-7-
with adequate financing to carry out such plan, and to employ
qualified and experienced experts therefor in accordance vith
contract procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) cause to be strengthened and maintained until the
completion of the Project, a project extension and an animal
health service within its DRTM with duly qualified and experi-
enced staff in sufficient numbers as agreed with the Bank, in-
cluding one support unit to advise on and demonstrate farm
machinery and one such unit to investigate methods of soil con-
servation and to demonstrate such methods to extensionists and
farmers;
(c) cause to be established not later than six months
after the date of this Agreement and thereafter maintained until
the completion of the Project, a unit with duly qualified and
experienced staff in sufficient numbers assisted initially by a
specialist to monitor progress of all Parts of the Project, in-
cluding collecting all relevant data;
(d) cause the Project Coordinator to organize an annual
meeting of all implementing agencies to discuss progress of the
Project and budgets for the following year, summary reports of
such meetings to be furnished to the Bank not later than three
months thereafter; and
(e) cause to be established not later than six months
after the date of this Agreement and thereafter maintained until
the completion of the Project, an evaluation unit to design the
baseline survey, to carry out general socio-economic surveys and
research studies on the rural economy in the Project Area and to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than three and five
years after the date of this Agreement, reports inter alia on the
progress of the Project, the cost and the benefits derived there-
from and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Section 3.07. Not later than September 30, 1983, the Bor-
rower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for an exchange of
views the terms of reference for the feasibility studies on the
Chaves Irrigation Scheme and for the olive development study in-
cluded in Part D of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) through its ministry responsible for cooperatives,
furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1983 a training program included


﻿-8-
in Part E of the Project for the staff of FENACAM and CCAMs, and
initiate the carrying out of a program satisfactory to the Bank
by September 30, 1983; and
(b) carry out Part C.3 of the Project through its ministry
responsible for cooperatives.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause its DRTM to prepare
and carry out programs satisfactory to the Bank (a) to improve
animal health and disease control including training of villagers
as veterinarians' assistants, such training expenses to be cov-
ered by animal insurance cooperatives;
(b) to recover the cost, ez.cluding interest, of construct-
ing, operating and maintaining the facilities included in Part
C.2 of the Project over a period of 15 years through levies on
users of the facilities included in said Part of the Project; and
(c) to require the beneficiaries of the irrigatior. facili-
ties provided under Part A of the Project to contribute not less
than 20% of the cost of construction.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall establish the interest rate appli-
cable to loans for Investment Projects and maturing more than one
year after the date on which they are originally incurred, at a
constant level of not less than 14.5%.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain the interest rates appli-
cable to agricultural loans in the Project Area maturing one year
or less after the date on which they are originally incurred and
provided for in connection with investments referred to in para-
graph (a) above, at a level of not less than the rate applicable
to agricultural loans under paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-9-
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall issue, as and when needed, all
permits, licenses and authorizations and take all other action
necessary to ensure the entry into the Borrower's territory of
the imported livestock required for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
through the Project Administration Uni, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, programs and reports for the Project and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank not later
than three months after the end of each six months' period a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request on the progress of the Project during such six
months' period; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than seven months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
completion report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be


﻿- 10 -
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and
IFADAP of their respective obligations under the Loan, Project and
IFADAP Agency Agreements and the accomplishment of    -e p- oses
of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under.the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make exp:ess provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for aiy constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall pro-ptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing


﻿- 11 -
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon its obligations con-
tained in Section 4.02 above, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause DRTM, CCRN, its ministry responsible for health
and its Municipalities to establish and maintain separate accounts
on their records to be used exclusively for those Parts of the
Project for which they are responsible and to register in such
accounts all receipts and payments for or in connection with such
Parts of the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied; and
(b) cause DRTM, CCRN, its ministry responsible for health
and its Municipalities to: (i) have the accounts referred to in
(a) hereof and related statements for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year, (A)
certified copies of such related statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of such agency and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) IFADAP shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agre,-ment or obligation of IFADAP under the Project Agreement;


﻿- 12 -
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall made it improbable that IFADAP will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreements
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of IFADAP or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) the Statutes of IFADAP shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to ma-
terially and adversely affect the ability of IFADAP to carry out
the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified in
paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this AgreEment
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower
and IFADAP, respectively.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the IFADAP Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and IFADAP;
(b) not less than two PBI Loan Agreements shall have
been executed on behalf of IFADAP and PBIs, respectively, and
shall have come into full force and effect; and
(c) the Borrower shall have established the interest rate
pursuant to Section 3.10 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 13 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by IFADAP, and is legally binding upon IFADAP in accord-
ance with its terms;
(b) that the IFADAP Agency Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and IFADAP and is legally bind-
ing upon the Borrower and IFADAP in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) that not less than two PBI Loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by IFADAP and the PBIs and are
legally binding upon IFADAP and the PBIs in accordance with their
terms.
Section 6.03. The date     U      I L          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.14 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio das Financas
e do Plano
Avenida Infante D. Henrique
1100 Lisboa
Portugal
Cable address:                          Telex:
Direccao-Geral                        12764 TRESOR P
do Tesouro
Lisboa
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-14 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto duly authorized, have caused     this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Lisbon,
Republic of Portugal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under
Part B.1 of the
Project:
(a) made by IFADAP            12,000,000     90% of disburse-
ments by IFADAP
to Sub-borrowers
(b) made by PBIs              19,000,000     100% of IFADAP's
disbursements
to PBIs
(2)  (a) Construction               2,000,000     80%
materials for
Part A of
the Project
(b) Equipment,                 4,000,000     90%
vehicles and
materials for
Part C.1 - 3
of the Project
(3) Civil works under               3,200,000     70%
Part C.1 -3 of
the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Equipment, vehicles,           8,000,000     80%
materials, Con-
sultants' services,
including research
contracts, and
fellowships under
Parts D and E of
the Project
(5) Unallocated                    2,800;000
TOTAL               51,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of payments for expenditures in respect of Category (1) shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by IFADAP, by which IFADAP
certifies that the disbursement on account of which the withdrawal
is requested has been made for the purpose for which it was
intended; the certificate shall be in such form as shall have been
agreed between the Bank and IFADAP.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish a base for
technological progress of agriculture in the Project area, improve
agricultural services, raise incomes of farm families and stan-
dards of living in the Project Area and strengthen regional
institutions involved in rural development.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Irrigated Agricultural Development
Rehabilitation of about 150 irrigation systems in the moun-
tain and high valley zones of the Project Area (including con-
struction of weirs, canals, syphons and steel gates) to irrigate
an area of about 7,500 ha.
Part B:   Credit .
1.    Provision of agricultural credit to finance:
(a) purchases of:
(i) livestock including Friesian heifers, ewe
lambs and beef heifers;
(ii) farm machinery including about 180 tractors
with implements as well as mowers, pickup
balers, and seed drills;
(iii) seeds, fertilizers, and other requisites for
establishing pastures with a total of about
8,000 ha;
(b) construction of livestock shelters and other works
under a program of intensive dairying on about
2,700 farms in the mountain and high valley
zones, cattle and sheep production on about 1,000
farms in the Planalto Mirandes zone and the Terra
Quente zone;
(c) establishment of about 1,200 ha of new vineyards
and replanting of about 1,000 ha of existing
vineyards in the Douro zone of the Project Area;
and


﻿- 19 -
(d) construction of about 80 cooperative storage
facilities as well as provision of about 50
trucks and 2 milk tankers.
2.   Provision of credit to Municipalities to finance:
(a) construction of about 80 km of rural connection
roads, improvement of about 120 km of existing
roads and paving of streets in about 60 villages;
(b) construction of about 60 municipal water supply
systems and improvements of about 160 village water
supply systems with standpipes, and construction of
about 70 municipal sewage systems; and
(c) rehabilitation and construction, as the case may
be, of about 60 classrooms for primary multigrade
schools primarily in small rural communities.
Part C:  Agricultural and Agricultural Credit Services, and
Health Services
1.   Construction of about 50 houses for extension staff and
small laboratories and other facilities as well as
provision of vehicles and equipment for agricultural
research, extension, animal health and breeding and
irrigation services and for the Project Administration
Unit.
2.   Construction and equipping of about 110 cooperative
milking parlors.
3.   Provision of office equipment and materials for a
FENACAM office to be established in the Project Area.
4.   Construction and equipping of about 2 health centers and
about 12 health posts as well as other community devel-
opment works.
Part D:  Research, Studies and Pilot Projects
Carrying out ground water studies (including drilling of
exploratory wells), an olive development study, a feasibility


﻿- 20 -
study on the expansion of the Chaves Irrigation Scheme, and
baseline socio-economic surveys, special Project monitoring
studies, various other agricultural research and pilot projects,
and studies to be agreed with the Bank.
Part E:  Training
Carrying out training programs for staff located in the
Project Area with respect to agricultural extension and veterinary
services, provision of about 270 months of fellowships for train-
ing of agricultural credit staff ane FENACAM staff located in the
Project Area, management training for staff of concelhos and
cooperatives and about 36 months of fellowships for Project
monitoring and evaluation staff, including the provision of
equipment, vehicles and materials necessary therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1986
through   August 1, 1997                   2,125,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  2.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                 10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current version of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bids; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 24 -
Portugal may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Portugal if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Portugal equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be
compared among themselves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, and sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods.
Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other,
and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or
group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 25 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Friesian heifers may be procured through limited inter-
national tendering on the basis of quotations from not less than
four supplying countries provided, however, that contracts so
procured shall not exceed $6,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
2.   Civil works, equipment and furniture for offices,
laboratories, seed storage, and staff houses may be awarded
through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
3.   Contracts for equipment, other than those referred to
under paragraph 4 hereof, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
less may be procured through appropriate competitive bidding
procedures on the basis of not less than 3 quotations from sup-
pliers, provided, however, that contracts so procured shall not
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
4.   Tractors, farm equipment and materials, as well as
small items estimated to cost $1,000 equivalent or less, may be
procured through normal commercial channels.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to Part A hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award


﻿- 26 -
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2. With respect to each contract awarded under Part C.1-3
hereof, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original price, t. Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27--
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and
Policies for ICIMs
Credit to Municipalities under Part B.2 of the Project shall
be provided under the following operational procedures and
policies:
I.   Appraisal and Approval of Credit Applications
(1) The Municipality applying for a credit shall have
prepared a credit application on the basis of the
detailed municipal investment program, including a
financing plan for its investments, operation, main-
tenance and debt service as well as designs and an
assessment of the investments' technical feasibility and
financial viability. GATs in the Tras-os-Montes region
shall assist, as may be necessary, Municipalities in
the preparation of such municipal investment program
and credit application.
(2) The ICIM shall appraise the credit application taking
into account:
(i) the creditwnrthiness of the Municipality;
(ii) the proposed designs, design criteria as agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, the tech-
nical and financial viability of and the financing
plan for the proposed investment; and
(iii) the assurances obtained from the Municipality
concerned under paragraph (3) below.
No credit application shall be approved unless the ICIM
is satisfied that the requirements of (i) or (iii) above
are adequately fulfilled.
(3)   The Municipality shall agree:
(i) to carry out the investment in accordance with
the Borrower's procedures unless otherwise stated
herein and with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿- 28 -
in accordance with appropriate technical, admini-
strative and financial policies and practices;
(ii) to implement the municipal investment program;
(iii) to properly operate and maintain the facilities
and to provide the resources necessary for this
purpose;
(iv) to recover the operation and maintenance costs
of the water supply and sewage facilities through
charges on their users; and
(v) to establish and thereafter maintain separate
accounts for the expenditures related to the
investments under the Project.
II. Terms of Credit to Municipalities
(1) Contribution to Cost of Investments
The ICIM shall ensure that the Municipalities contribute
not less than 20% of the cost of their investments
(including their own labor and materials). The ICIM
shall contribute 65% of such cost as a credit and the
remainder shall be provided by the Borrower.
(2) Rate of Interest and Repayment
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, the aplicable rate of interest and repayment terms
shall be specified in the protocol to be entered into
between the Borrower and the ICIM concerned.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this // 4     day of 2iA,  f 198 -g.
FOR SECRETARY


