Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5573-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROECT
April 29, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
ITh  documest hs a resulte disibution and may be 'sW by recpient umy in the perfermance of
their oica dudes bs coteent nY nt otherwise be distince without Wold Dank  uthorimtion. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December i984
US$l = 800 Won
1 Won = US$0.00125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)            = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ki)       = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)          = 2.47 acres (ac)
I kilogram (kg)         = 2.205 pounds (Lb)
I ton (t)               = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 Ib
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOK       -     Bank of Korea
IFAD      -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LAO       -     Loan Appraisal Officer
LARISD    -     Law for AcceLeration of Rural Income Source Development
MAF       -     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
HIS       -     Management Information System
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
NACF      -     National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
PC        -     Primary Cooperative
PIC       -     Project Implementation Committee
PIP       -     Project Implementation Plan
TU        -     Technical Unit (NACF)



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TabLe of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .................................................                      1
Introduction           1............................................... 
The Agricultural Seccor ....................................                     1
Sector Issues ......... .....................................                    2
The Government's Stracegy ..................................                     4
The Bark's RoLe and Project Rationale ......................                     5
II.   THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION AND
THE MEMBER COOPERATIVES ....................................                     6
Institutional Aspects ......          ...........................                6
Lending Operations and Procedures .....            ....................          9
Other Operations ...........................................                    10
Financial Condition and Performance .....             ...................       10
Sources and Uses of Funds ..................................                    12
Previous Bank-Financed Projects .....             .......................       13
NACF's Nedius-Term Development Strategy                   .        .            13
III.  THE PROJECT ................................................                     14
Project Objectives and Description .........................                    14
Detailed Features ..........................................                    14
Costs, Financing and ReLending Terms .......................                    15
Procurement ................................................                    17
Disbursements ..............................................                    17
Organization and Management ..............................                      18
Accounts, Audits and Progress Reports ......................                    19
Benefits ..............         .....................................           19
Risks .      .....................................................              20
This report is based on the findings of a joint IBRD/IFAD preappraisal mission
and an appraisal mission which visited Korea during February and June 1984,
respectively. Members of the preappraisal mission were Messrs. T. Daves, R.
Deshpande, R. Key and M. Zenick, and Ms. N. K. Hill (IBRD), Messrs. Y. Takano
(IFAD), and R. Hoover (Consultant). The appraisal mission comprised Messrs.
T. Daves, V. Bhargava and Ms. N. K. Hill (IBRD), Messrs. C. Eugenio and R.
Hoover (Consultants).
This d_omnt baa a resxricted disribution  d may be used by recpits only in the peforman  of
thei offcia duus Its contents may not oherwis be dismcsed witbout World Bank authorton



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS *e............................                   20
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1 Cost Summary
ANNEXES
1. NACF Development Plan and Supporting Tables
Audited Balance Sheets (1979-83)
Audited Income Statements (1979-83)
Net Earnings (After Taxes) by NACF Departments
Esti.mate of Losses due to Government Policies
Estimate of Losses due to Inadequate Commission Paid by the Government on
Nonbanking Services
Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance (1979-83)
Primary cooperatives: Balance Sheets (1980-83)
Primary cooperatives: Income Statements (1980-83)
2. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3. Related Documents and Materials Available in Project File
CHARTS
NACF Organization Chart IBRD No. 26546
MAP No. 12351R3



- iii -
KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:       The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
Amount:            $25 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The Government would onlend the loan proceeds to NACF on
substantially the same terms as the Bank loan. NACF would
onlend the proceeds to final subborrowers at an interest
rate of 3Z above the weighted average cost of all funds
onlent for subprojects. NACF would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would focus on agricultural credit to
farmers, farmers cooperatives and small rural businesses to
finance investments covering a wide range of agricultural
production and other activities that would diversify the
sources of rural incomes. It would also address the
institutional development issues facing NACF, the main
credit institution serving agriculture.
Risks:             The main risk associated with the proposed loan is that the
investments financed by NACF might lead to over capacity in
particular areas, such as orchards or greenhouses. To
reduce this risk, the project provides that the subsectoral
distribution of onlending would be reviewed annually and
appropriate adjustments made to reflect market conditions.



- iV -
Project Costs:    /a                                      SMillion
Local       Foreign      Total
Subloans
Production facilicies         13.3         4.7         18.0
Farm machinery & equipment   4.9          12.1         17.0
Karketing facilities           4.4          3.6         8.0
Input suppLy faciLities        2.0         1.0          3.0
Agroprocessing facilities    2.0            1.0         3.0
Other nonfarm investments    3.9            2.6         6.5
Total Financing Required        30.5         25.0         55.5
Financing Plan: Bank loan                          -          25.0         25.0
NACF                            13.9           -          13.9
Subborrowers                    16.6           -          16.6
Total                           30.5         25.0        55.5
Estimared
Disbursements:       Bank FY      1986    1987    1988    1989
--       US$ million
Annual         8.5     7.5      6.5     2.5
Cumulative    8.5    16.0    22.5    25.0
Map:                   No. 12351x3
/a Including taxes and duties of $5.6 million.



KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Korea has requested a Bank loan of $25 miLlion to
assist in financing a fourth agricultural credit project through the National
Agricultural Cooperacive Federation (NACF).  The oroject wouid support NACF's
medium- and long-term tending to farmers and primary cooperacives (PCs) for a
wide variety of onfarm and rural income diversification investments. it also
includes provisions aimed ac improving NACF's Drofitability and resource
mobilization capacity.  the oroiect was prepared by NACF taking into account
its experience with orevious Bank-financed prc'ects and the recommendations
made in the Bank's AgricuLtural Sector Survey iReport No. 4709-KO. April
L984). The Government has requested a loan of S15 miLLion from the
Incernational Fund for Agricultural DeveLopment (IFAD); these funds would also
be used to support NACF's medium- and long-term Lending program, concentracing
on beneficiaries who are landless or own less than 1.1 ha of farm Land.
The AgricuLtural Sector
1.02      The Republic of Korea has a land area of 98,200 sq km and a popula-
tion of about 40 million. As most of the country is mountainous, only 22% of
the total land area is cultivable. The population density of 400 per sq km
and 18.2 per ha of farmland is one of the world's highest. Because of this
population pressure, the 2.2 million ha of land available for agriculture is
intensively developed and used; about one-fourth of the cultivated land is
double-cropped. The available cropland is divided among two million owner-
operated smallholdings averaging 1.1 ha in size. Irrigation is availabLe to
70% of the 1.3 million ha of paddy land, about 28% of which has been consoli-
dated from the traditional very small plots inco more efficient plots averag-
ing 0.4 ha. Virtually all of the cropland available has good soils, the
Korean climate is temperate and average rainfall of about 1,200 mm is adequate
for high production of most non-rice crops without irrigation. Crop husbandry
is generally excellenc with wide use of improved seeds, fertilizers and other
chemical inputs. About 80% of the land preparation and crop maintenance
operations and 100% of chreshing are mechanized. Mechanization of rice trans-
planting and rice and barley harvesting is only about 15X. Rice and other
foodgrains occupy 59% of available cropland with the remainder devoted to
vegetables (13%), industrial crops (12%), puLses (9%) and fruits (4%).
Agriculcure now produces 17% of Korea's G2NP, employs 32% of the labor force,
and is the main income source for 24% of the population.
1.03      Major trends in the sector include declining rural population;
stabilizing staple food grain production and consumption after a sustained
period of sharp increases; rapidly increasing production and consumption of
horticultural, fish and livestock products; gradually increasing ruraL under-
employment notwithstanding continuing high labor out-migration rates and
continued growth in mechanization. There are numerous public and semi-public



institutions serving agriculture and a s:gniticanr degree oa 2overnment inter-
vention in the sector. Government acczvicLes tnclude controis on land owner-
ship and farm size; direct investments in infrascructure; grancs, credit
allocations and credit subsidies for private investment; price support and
marketing activities by government-controlLed cooperatives and parascacaL
agencies; and a limitation on the import of agricultural products chat can be
produced domescically.
1.04      For more tnan a decade the Government's main objectives Eor the
agricultural sector have been national food security, income equity for rural
families, price stability, and a high standard of infrastructure and public
services in rural areas. The Government has pursued these objectives through
policies emphasizing direct government investments and commodity price sup-
ports. Korean agriculture has flourished in chis supportive and increasingiy
protective environment. Over the past decade. rapid increases in che use ot
inputs and farm machinery and improvements in the quaLity of farm Land -
through irrigation, drainage and Land development - have increased yields and
labor productivity. The overall index of agricultural production (1974-76
base) in 1981 was more than twice the 1961 index, with the crops index up
about 90% and the livestock products index up 380%. Although the area planted
to cereals declined by 425,000 ha (20%) between 1961 and 1981, total cereal
production increased from 4.9 to 6.1 million tons. with rice output up
1.6 million tons, more than enough to offsec a decline of 450,000 cons in
barley and wheat. Production of most other crops also increased significantly
with the mosc dramatic gains in fruits and vegetables, both up almost 600%,
and oilseeds, up over 800o. Yields for mosc crops are high by international
standards: rice yields are second only to those of Japan. For crops and
livestock products which can be produced domestically, Korea is virtually
self-sufficient. However, some 5.9 million tons of grains (mostly wheat, corn
and soybeans) and 40,000 tons of beef were imported in 1982. The sector
provides consumers with ample supplies of rice and a good selection of other
food products.
1.05      Since 1967, rural household income has increased at an annual rate
of 6.4% and household consumption at 5.3%. In real terms (1980 prices), per
capita income and consumption of rural households have risen even more
rapidly, at 7.9% and 6.8% p.a., respectively, reflecting decreasing household
size. Data for 1982 and 1983 indicate thac effective rural household incomes
are now roughly on a par with urban salary and wage earner household
incomes. Farm families have income levels about equal to urban workers and
can afford the amenities of modern life at levels similar to urban families.
For both producers and consumers, seasonal and interyear price fluctuations
for agricultural products have been reduced substantially compared to those of
the early 1970s. Although there has been a large migration to the two major
metropolitan areas in the last two decades, 40% of the Korean population still
lives in rural areas and in cities with population of less than 100,000.
Sector Issues
1.06      For the future the Government is expected to continue to highlight
food security, price stability, and rural income equity as major objectives
for agricultural development. However, because of changing conditions in the



-3-
generaL economy and in agriculture, changes will be necessary in the character
of che seccor and .ne Government poLicies affecting it. The present small-
farm, Labor-intensive agriculture with most rural families relying on farm
earnings as their primary income source cannoc be sustained if the basic
objectives are to be met without incurring Large economic costs. The overall
set of government policies and programs that were so successful in the past is
unlikely to be either feasible or desirable in the future. Development of
irrigation and adopcion of improved technology over the past 20 years have
essentiaLly soLved the agriculture suppLy problem. Of the commodities
suitable for domestic production. Korean farmers now produce as much as their
markets will absorb. And, given the reLatively high average income and
consumption levels nationally, overaLL demand for agricultural products is
unlikely to expand much fascer than the popuLation growth rate, i.e., about
1.6% p.a. Because Korea has little potential to compete in agricultural
export markets, this effectiveiy secs a limit on the race oi growth of the
real value of agricuitural outpuc and farm Lncomes that is substantiallv below
the 5-7% p.a. increases expecced in manufacturing and other nonagricuLtural
sectors.
1.07      Continuing policies stressing resource development and commodity
price supports would almost certainly lead to persistent agricuLturaL sur-
pluses, particularly of rice, that could be disposed of in export markets only
at a very substantial loss. Also, because the most attractive and least
costly investments have already been undertaken, this strategy would entail
more costly and lower return resource development. Furthermore, to achieve
the Government's income equality objective, commodity price supports would
have to be maintained at levels that probably would lead to increasing
government subsidies or high consurder prices for food. In following this
path, Korea would join a large number of the more developed nations, including
Japan and much of Western Europe, that are saddled with high cost food, food
surpluses and sizeable budget outlays to maintain a technologically sophisti-
cated, but economically inefficient agriculture.
1.08      Fortunately, the Government is beginning to consider other policy
and investment scenarios that would enable a more efficient development of
agriculture, while not losing sight of the high priority objectives. Parity
of farm household incomes could be maintained and program costs reduced or
eliminated by adopting a market-oriented agricultural strategy and progres-
sively reducing government intervention, especially dismantling of the strict
import controls now in effect. A shiEt in the composition of investments from
land and water development to areas such as farm mechanization, agricultural
research, agroprocessing and marketing channel development, would reduce
production and marketing costs. This strategy would lead to a more efficient
agriculture, lower food prices for consumers, and Lower subsidy costs to the
Government. Because of the relatively low real costs of agricultural land and
labor and the possibilities for productivity gains, no serious reduction in
the level of agricultural production is likely to occur. Clearly, sensitive
issues and uncertainties are involved, which argue for a measured, step by
step approach. In particular, the possibility of a more efficient agriculture
is closely related to what happens in nonagricultural sectors since this will
determine the rate at which workers can transfer out of agriculture. Simi-
larly, the success with which a spatially diversified economic strategy is



-4-
pursued depends heavily on'che effectiveness of efforcs to promote and stimu-
late strong growth in nonfarm rural or small-town emrloyment.
The Government's Strategy
1.09      The current prosperity of agriculture and the resurgence in manufac-
turing and other nonagricultural seccors 3ive the Government a unique oppor-
tunity co make policy changes that would allow Korea to escape the agricul-
tural subsidy and surplus problems aifliccing many countries. The first step
in changing poLicy directions was taKen bv revising the Fifth Five-Year Plan
(1982-86) in mid-term. The originaL Fifth Five-Year PLan outlined a continua-
tion of the high investment, high price and high government incervention
policies that worked weLl in the i970s. However, even before publication of
the Plan in late ;981, some rechinking of this approach had begun, which led
to plans for a phased elimination of deficits in the grain and fertilizer
price support schemes and reconsiderations of numerous other elements of agri-
culturaL poLicy. Agreements with the Bank on the phasing out of grain and
fertilizer supports were incorporated in the Structural Adjustment Loan (2071-
KO) of 1981. Similarly, in other sectors, the econot:tic difficulties of 1979-
81 led to a general reduction in the Government's investment budget and, a
subsequent revision of the Fifth Plan. The revised Plan, completed in
February 1984, reduces the planned agricuLtural investment for 1984-86 by
about 10%, with essentially all of the cuts in the land and water development
programs, and also calls for a 60Z reduction in the projected irrigation
investments for 1986-91.
1.10      The second step aims at improving sector efficiency while
maintaining rural income and population dispersion objectives by promoting the
creation of more nonfarm jobs in or near rural areas. The basic framework for
expanding rural nonfarm job creation is contained in the "Law for Acceleration
of Rural Income Source Development," approved by the NationaL Assembly in
!983. This legisLation is intended to accelerate development of rural income
sources by drawing manufacturing and service firms into rural areas and,
thereby, increasing and upgrading the structure of rural incomes. The Law
requires the Government to Eormulate an official rural development strategy
that would be coordinated by the Minister of the Economic Planning Board (EPB)
and to establish standing oversight committees for rural income development at
the local, provincial and central government levels. Its specific provisions
authorize simplification and decentralization of investment approval, tax
.ncentives, and priority in obtaining services and government procurement
contracts for industrial plants that locate in non-metropolitan areas. Other
actions planned by the government to stimulate employment in rural areas
include construction of smaLL rural industrial estates and of buildings for
sale or lease to private firms, designation of and financial assistance for
development of tourism zones, and improvement of rural roads and transporta-
tion services. The revised Fifth Five-Year Plan, together with the law for
Acceleration of Rural Income Source Development, reflects an agricultural
policy aimed at improving sectoral efficiency, reducing support costs borne by
consumers and the Government, and raising rural employment and income. Other
policy directions under consideration, which relate to trade liberalization
and expansion of farm size, are described below.



-5--
1.,11     ?rice and Trade PoLicies.  In the past. agricultural trade rescric-
eions and internal price policies have been major factors supporting the
relatively high farm incomes which. Ln turn, have enabLed rapid improvements
in the quality of rural life. high on-carm invescment, and efficient function-
ing of the rural credit system. The beneficial impaLts of these policies in
terms of equity, social stabilicy and broad-based growth have more than offset
their economic cost. However. because of increasing resource costs and domes-
tic market saturation for most agricultural products, a continuation of :he
present trade and price policies is likeLy to become progressivelv Less effec-
tive and more costly. Therefore, the Government pLans to reduce agriculcural
commodity import restrictions and direct government price and marketing Lnter-
ventions. These changes would be made selectiveLy ano slowlv, but wich a
target for competitive price Levels and subscantiai reLiance on markec price
mechanisms by 2000. This would give consumers the beneric of much Lower food
prices, an important eLement in keeping Korean Labor costs competitive.
Larger farms, higher productivity and a smaller Dopuiacion dependent on agri-
culture for income would compensate producers for zhe Lower unit prices that
would accompany agricultural Liberalizacion. The Government has already taken
some steps that will contribute to the longer term liberaLization objective.
They have stabilized government purchase prices for rice and barley over the
past two years and begun to reduce the Fertilizer Fund deficits by phasing out
high-cost excess capacity in the fertilizer industry.
1.12      Expansion of Farm Size.  Current land law prohibits ownership of
more than 3 ha of farmland by any individual, ownership of farmland by non-
farmers, and farmland leasing. This law is generally effective and has made
an important contribution to equalizing and improving incomes of rural fami-
lies with consequent beneficial effects on national well-being. However, the
structure of small owner-operator farms thus created is becoming less effi-
cient and less necessary with modernization and expansion of the national
economy. Efficient use of labor-saving machinery and, in the long run,
maintenance of acceptable levels of farm family incomes will be increasingly
constrained by these Legal limits. Therefore, long-term evolution of an
efficient agricultural sector that will provide good incomes for farmers
requires some revision of these laws. Also, because the price of farm land
has risen above farmers' ability to finance Land purchases, there is no
effective market in farm land; so some assistance by the Government is Likely
to be needed to effect the necessary land consolidation. Although the 3 ha
legal limit on farm size will have to be raised eventually, for the medium
term the Government's strategy is to encourage consolidation of the current
very small farms into Larger units within the existing Limit. Future actions
include a comprehensive survey of farmland ownership, control, and uses to
more precisely define problems and needed adjustments in existing Land Law and
formulation of a plan to improve the land-holding system.
The Bank's Role and Project Rationale
1.13      Previous Bank Group assistance to Korea's agriculture has been in
support of specific projects through 17 loans/credits totalling $755 million.
Of this amount, 70% has been for irrigation and rural development; 15% for
storage, processing and marketing facilities; IIZ for farm credit; 3Z for
livestock development; and 1% for seed improvement. The level of external



assistance for Korean agricuLture in the future is Likely to be much less than
previously required to heLp finance the major irrigation and Land development
projects which are now largelv complete. Theretore, the priority for external
assistance over the next few years would appear to be in the areas of farm
credit, marketing and related services, and agricultural research. Closely
related is the need to improve rural roads and buiLd up secondary cities.  En
each of these areas, expanded government efforts are planned and continued
Bank support would strengthen the Government's program.  Participacion in this
investment program would also give the Bank an opoortunity to help identifv
programs and policy options and to support insticutionaL development tor
agriculture.
1.14      The Government is considering a number oi Long-term policy d.rec-
tions which would enable development of a more efficienc agricultural sector
while stiLl retaining its overall objectives of food security, income equicv.
price stabilitv and population dispersion.  4any of these policy directions
are consistenc with the findings of the Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey,
which generaliv recommended that Government should stimulate nonfarm employ-
ment in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector, and adopt
a broader and longer-term view of agricultural problems. The proposed project
would focus on agricultural credit and hence would promote agricultural devel-
opment through financing private sector investments covering a wide range of
agricultural production and ruraL income diversification activities. It would
also address the institutional development issues of NACF, the main credit
institution serving agriculture.
rI. THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
AND THE MEMBER COOPERATIVES
Institutional Aspects
2.01      Objectives and Functions.  NACF was created by the Agricultural
Cooperative L!Iw of 1961 as the apex body of the agricultural cooperacive sys-
tem in Korea.-/ Objectives of NACF and its member cooperatives are to
increase agricultural productivity, improve the social and economic status of
member Earmers, and assist in balanced development of the national economy.
Through a necwork of NACF branch offices and member cooperatives, the NACF
system carries out a wide range of activities: extension of agricultural
credit; mobilization of funds through banking activities; distribution of
agricultural inputs and farm machinery; provision of processing and marketing
1/   Korea's cooperative system also includes the National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives (NFFC) and the National Livesct-" Cooperative
Federation (NLCF). NFFC, comprising 71 member cooperatives and 1,440
fishing village societies, was set up in 1962 to serve as a banking
institution for fishermen and fishery-related manufactv;rers. NLCF was
established in 1981 by the merger of the Livestock Industry Development
Corporation and the 121 special purpose livestock cooperatives, which had
earlier been affilitated with NACF.



-7-
:acCtiie5 and ser-7ices: anr  life and proner-r insurance coverage for
memners.  The syscem ser-.;es o-zer 30Z o' 'arm ."ouseholds in the councrY.  It
accounts for o-ver 95Z of cae  .nstLtutionai credi  supoLied to tne aericuLture
seccor. meeting aoouc half o; :he credic neens of farmers: :he ocher half
being met from informal sources. NACF's system aLso is che dcminant supplier
of farm inpucs. supplying over 75Z of agrochemicaLs. machinery and equipment
and 100X of fertilizers.  it is also a major purc:haser of oucput as weLL,
handling about one-fourth of che totai marketed azricultural commodities.  The
Covernmenc provides about one-third of the svsce 's resources and exercises
ultimate control over i;s operations. managemenc and poiicies.
2.02      Because of its size. scope or ac_iv;._es. and resconsibiLitv ro
implement government agrjcujturai programs. Mae NACF coonperac:ve system eiays
a dominant roLe in the agricuiturai sector.  _n keenine wirtn basic  0oo0eratLve
principles, NACF and t.he cooperati.ves oiace great emphasis on ser-:ices tD
their ciients and undertake severaL non-income earning ac.ivicies such as mnem-
ber guidance and training proerams (extension ser-ices) ana administratcon af
gover-nment agricultural programs.  However, -hev aim ac covering the overaiL
cost of overations Chrough profits on banking and insurance activities suppLe-
mented by government subsidies to help support programs that do not cover
their own costs.
2.03      Organization and Management.  The agricultural cooperative system
comprises NACF and 1,512 primary cooperatives (PCs), of which 42 are special
purpose horticultural marketing and suppLy cooperatives. NACF itself
comprises a head office in Seoul, nine provincial offices, four city offices,
and 139 branches (Chart 26546). The 1,470 general purpose agricultural
cooperatives, the PCs, are spread all over the country and have a total of
about two million members. The 42 horticultural cooperatives have about
40,000 members, many of whom also belong to PCs. They are organized on the
basis of crop items they handle whereas the PCs are organized by geographical
jurisdiction. The Agricultural Cooperative Law provides the ruLes for the
PCs' registration, membership, organization, management. accouncing, audit,
supervision and relaced matcers. However, each PC as well as NACF, operaces
under its own bylaws and maintains a separate organizational, managerial, and
financial identity.
2.04      NACF is wholly autonomous in its day-to-day operations and manage-
ment. However, it is subject to general policy directives of the MAF. Its
operational policies and procedures are formulated by a Steering Commictee
consisting of representatives from Ministry of Agriculcure and Fisheries
(MOF), Ministry of Finance (.OF), and Bank of Korea (B0K), and five coopera-
tive delegates appointed by the General Assembly of the Cooperatives. The
President, appointed by the President of Korea, is assisted by two senior
Vice Presidents and six Vice Presidents. In general NACF's organizational
structure is along functional lines. It has 17 management and operations
departments, four offices for special functions, a cooperative junior college,
a training institute and three commercial centers (see Chart 26546). Each PC
functions under the direction of a board of directors elected every three
years by members. The members also elect two candidates for the post of
President; the final appointment is made by MACF. Each PC employs a full-time
paid manager, appointed by NACF.



-8-
2.05      Staffing and Training.  At alL levels of its structure, NACF has a
total staff of about 11,000 and the PCs have a total staff of about 30,000 (an
average of about 20 staff members per cooperative). With this total staff
Level, the MACF cooperative system is second only to the Government itself in
terms of employee numbers. Staff quality is good: about half of the NACF
staff are university educated. Turnover is low, abouc 10Z p.a., but is grow-
ing due to rapidly increasing wage rates in the private sector in recent
years. Recruitment of new staff members is mostly at junior and middle man-
agement levels. NACF's recruitment is centrally organized. Each PC recruits
its own employees under supervision by NACF's branch offices, through written
tests and interviews. Senior level appointments in NACF and the PCs are
generally made through internal selection.
2.06      NACF has a sizeable training program for its own and the coopera-
tives' employees, and for member farmers. Its training facilities consist of
a Central Training Institute, eight Provincial Training Institutes and an
Agricultural Cooperative Junior College. Two of the eight provincial insti-
cutes are reserved for training of member farmers while the rest are used for
training NACF and cooperative staff. In 1985, about 14,000 employees will be
trained at these facilities. Training courses cover accounting, banking,
cooperative insurance, loan supervision, marketing, cooperative law,
management skills, cooperative principles, leadership, human relations and
economic developmenc. About 70% of the training courses are business oriented
while the balance cover general community development topics. The training
programs cover all levels of staff, including middle management of NACF. in
addition to its internal training program, NACF will send about 85C staff
members to other training facilities (incLuding business mAnagement schools)
in the country and about 150 for overseas craining. During the period
1985-87, NACF erpects to provide from its own funds about V 1.6 bilLion ($2.0
million) for staff training.
2.07      NACF and the PCs attach considerable importance to provision of
training and guidance to their members co help improve their incomes and
living standards. Their programs focus on agricultural management as distinct
from production technology which is covered by the extension services provided
by MAE through the Office of Rural Development (ORD).  The training facilities
of NACF are used to train farm community leaders ant extension staff of the
PCs. PC staff in turn organize training camps of 60-100 farmers for a week.
In this manner up to half a million member farmers are reached by the training
and guidance program every year.
2.08       Management Information System (MIS).  MACF is presently engaged in a
major effort to computerize its accounting and financial pLanning systems and
put in place a comprehensive management information system. The work on this
project was started in 1981 and is expected to be complete by end-1989. By
June 1984, all branch offices of NACF were equipped with on-Line terminal
stations linked to the main computer in the head office. At present these
terminals are being used to provide accounting information on deposits, and
receivabLe and payables of the chainstores engaged in general business
activities. During the period 1985-87, MACE plans to computerize the informa-
tion on loans, remittances, insurance, inventories, balance sheets and income
statements, budgeting and financial planning. A management information and a



- 9 -
forecasting system will also be put in place. NACFs management is comnitted
to implementing this system and plans to spend about $10 million over the
1985-87 period. Most of the program and design work is being done by NACF
staff: 150 persons including about 100 programmers and system analysts are
engaged in this effort. The MIS is designed to remedy mosc of the short-
comings of the present information system identified by the Bank during
appraisal of the Third AgricuLturaL Credit Project.
Lending Operations and Procedures
2.09      Operations.  Cooperatives provide most of the inscitutional credit
for agriculture and related activities to member farmers, mainly from the
resources provided by the Government, BOK, NACF and deposits. The funds from
sources other than PCs' deposits are channeled through the branch offices of
MACF. Additionally, for some special programs, NACF offices extend medium-
and long-term credit directly to farmers, instead of through PCs. In the case
of funds obtained through foreign currency borrowing, such as Bank loans,
credit is handled by the NACF branches and selected PCs. Short-term
commercial loans to NACF depositors are made from its deposit resources. The
volume of NACF's total loans outstanding (excluding loans to government)
increased at an average annual rate of 20% over the period 1979-1983. At the
end of 1983 about cwo-thirds of the amount of the NACF loans outstanding,
US$3.0 billion, had a maturity of over three years (medium and long-term
loans) while the remaiuiing one-third had maturity of less than three years
(short-term Loans according to classification system used by NACF). All of
the PCs' loans, US$1.7 billion, from their own mutual deposit funds were
short-term. About 70Z of all loans outstanding at end-1983 were for agricul-
tural purposes, whereas 30% were for commercial, rural housing and other pur-
poses. There was no significant change in this distribution over the period
1979-83. Tne main uses of agricultural loans were: mechanization,
production, irrigation facilities and improvement of cooperatives.
2.10      During the period 1979-83, the amount of loans outstanding in
arrears averaged less than 1% of total amount of loans outstanding.  Most of
the arrears are less than one year old and the proportion of arrears of over
one year in total arrears declined from 31% in 1979 to 20Z in 1983. The
arrears of over one year are fully covered by provision for doubtful debts;
the quality of MAVCF's loan portfclio, excluding loans to the Government (para.
2.17), is excellent.
2.11      Procedures.  NACF and the PCs follow significantly different loan
processing procedures for similar types of loans depending on che source of
funding. For projects funded out of their own resources (deposits) and Bank
resources, NACF and the PCs carry out a thorough appraisal. For projects
funded out of government resources, the appraisals undertaken are less
thorough and in some cases appraisal and selection of borrowers is done by
local or central government officials. Overall, like the rest of che finan-
ciaL seccor, the cooperative system operates within a framework of government
directions that shape its lending operations. NACF's annual business program
requires prior approval of MAF and MOF. Within the overall guidelines for
domestic credit regulation, MAF and MOF determine the level of resources that
NACF can obcain from BOK and che Government. Thev then allocate credit to



- 10 -
specific subsectors and activities in accordance with government prioricies.
The Government aLso determines the interest rates applicable to dIfferent
types of Loans as -well as deposits.  Interest rates on most outstanding loans
have been set at 10Z, although some were increased to lI.3Z af:er Mc-,emner
1984 when the government raised the ceiling on interesc rates.  Exceptions
were Loans to Young Farmers (5Z), Irrigation Loans (5.5%), md Bank-financed
subLoans (12%). Repayment ranges from three to 20 years, with grace periods
up to five years.  The Loans from government resources are mostly for medium-
and long-terms and account for about half of the Loans made by the cooperative
system. As a government agent, NACF maintains several distinct medium- and
long-term credit accounts each having its own resources, Loan conditions and
appraisal procedures, all of which are subject to Large year-to-year variabil-
ity as the emphasis of government policy shifts. The government plans to
consolidate and reduce the number of special funds, and in parallel MACF would
move towards applying uniform standards in lending procedures (Annex l).
Other Operations
2.12      Banking.  NACF and the general purpose primary cooperatives provide
complete banking services to member farmers as weLl as non-members. They
accept demand, time and installment deposits, extend loans from banking
resources for general and commercial purposes including agriculture, handLe
remittances and credit guarantee schemes.  NACF's International Banking
Department is authorized as a Class A foreign exchange bank and helps to meet
the demand for foreign exchange required by exporters, importers and overseas
travellers. The services include L/C opening, negotiation of export bills,
preshipment financing, foreign remittances, issuance of travellers' checks and
purchase and sale of foreign currency.
2.13      Marketing.  NACF and the PCs handle marketing of farm products for
member farmers through collection points and 19 marketing centers operated by
NACF. They purchase and resell major inputs and machinery to farmers and
provide mechanization services. They also serve as the purchasing agent for
the government's various agricultural price stabilization programs and store.
sell and distribute government-owned foodgrains. The PCs operate warehouses
and mills and provide crucking services for member farmers.  NACF carries out
foreign trade with emphasis on export of surplus agricultural commodities and
timely import of agricultural production materials. NACF operates market
information centers in the major cities to provide producers daily auction
prices and marketing situation information.
2.14      Cooperative Insurance.  NACF provides Life and property insurance to
cooperative members through its nationwide network of branch offices and the
PCs.
Financial Condition and Performance
2.15      Financial Condition.  MACF assets grew at an average annual rate of
25% over the period 1979-83 and amounted to W 5,069 billion ($6.3 billion) as
of December 31, 1983 (Annex 1, Table 1). The growth of assets was helped by
the merger of county/city cooperatives with NACF in 1981 which boosted the
loan portfolio. Asset growth was highest in the insurance business, followed



- ii -
by banking and general business. Equity (paid-in capital, reserves and
retained earnings) increased by 236Z over the period 1979-82 as a resulc of
retained earnings and a re-evaluacion of fixed assets in accordance with the
Assets Re-evaluation Act.
2.16      Financial Performance.  In 1982 and 1983, NACF incurred sizeable
losses amounting to W 55 billion ($68.9 million) and W 10.7 biLl.on ($13.4
million) as against profits ranging between W 12 billion co W 22 billion ($15
to $27 million) during 1979-81. The recent losses were mainly due to the
government decision in 1982 to reduce interest rates on loans and deposits in
all banks including the cooperative system. WhiLe the reduced rates were to
apply to all outstanding loans, only new deposits were to carry tile reduced
rates. Consequently, income from loans was significantLy reduced while the
cost of deposits remained substantially unchanged, thus causing a negative
spread on Lending. Losses on banking activities due to the 1982 changes in
interest rate policies will, however, be reduced as eariier, more costly
deposits mature and are replaced by new deposits carrying lower incerest
rates. In fact the average interest paid on deposits declined from 10.4Z in
1982 to 6.8% in 1983 (Annex 1, Table 6). The average rate of return on loan
portfolio in 1983 was 9.15Z, yielding a spread of 2.35%. Though the spread
was still insufficient to cover the average administrative cost cf 3Z.   e
operating Losses on banking opecations were lower in 1983 than in 1982.2
2.17      Another important reason for the 1982 and 1983 losses and generally
low rate of profitability during the earlier years, has been that NACF was
required to cover the losses in its nonbanking activities, undertaken on
behalf of che government, from its profits on banking activities. The govern-
ment uses NACF and cooperatives as service agencies mainly for distribution of
fertilizers and ocher inputs and its price stabilization operations. The com-
mission paid by the Government for the services performed by the cooperative
system has on an average covered only about two-thirds of the cost of per-
forming these services (Annex 1, Table 5). In addition, the spread allowed by
the Government on its funds channelled to farmers through NACF and cooper-
atives for sponsored programs ranges from 0.5% to 2.5Z and is frequently
insufficient to cover Lending costs. The government has justified this
practice, as well as the underpayment of commission, on the grounds that it
creates indirect benefits to farmers by Lower coscs of credit services and
inputs. These arguments have some validity. However, it will not be feasible
to continue this practice since the increased competition in the banking
industry following the continuing financial sector reforms will narrow down
margins and may not provide banking income sufficient to cover losses on
general activities. Also, it is not advisable to continue this cross-
subsidization since it hides the true costs of nonbanking activities and
thereby perpetuates financially and economically inefficient programs and
limits NACF's capabilities to carry out institutional de-velopment needed for
effectively competing with the rest of the banking system in its urban and
semi-urban operations.
2/   NACF'g unaudited income statement for 1984 shows a net profit of
W 3.8 billion (US$4.8 million).



- 12 -
2.18      The budgecary implications of immediately increasing the commission
rates and interest race spreads on government sponsored Lending will be sub-
stantial. A solution to this problem wilL be reflected in che proposed reform
of NACF which, though expected to be slow and gradual, will effectively
address che problem of NACF's Low profitability (paras. 3.04-3.06).
2.19      Performance of :.he PCs.  The combined total assets of abouc i.470
PCs grew at an average annual race of 24% over the 1980-83 period (Annex 1,
Tables 7 and 8). The growch in banking assets averaged 26% per annum VnLLe
ocher business assets grew oy i6Z. The PCs were abLe to absorb rthe effect of
interesc rate cnanges of .982 due to the short-term nature oi their deposits
and reLativeLy greater lexibilitv in interest rates cnarged an Loans cuc of
their deposits, and realized modest profits. The equity position of PCs
improved 3t a rate of 13% per annum over the 1980-83 period and the net pro-
fits as percencage of average tocal assets ranged from 0.6 to 0.8% during this
period. The condition of individual PCs varies but in the aggregate the
financial condition, as well as the financial performance of the primary agri-
cultural cooperatives system is satisfactory. Their performance is helped by
the fact that MACF bears the brunt of the negative effects of government
interventions and tries to protect the PCs as far as possible.
Sources and Uses of Funds
2.20      Resource Mobilization.  On December 31, 1983 the total resources
mobilized by NACE (excluding equity) amounted to W 3,993 billion ($5 billion)
of which 57X were from deposits and 43% from borrowings. Almost all of the
resources were domestic; foreign currency deposits and borrowings accounted
for only 3% of total resources. During 1979-81, both deposits and borrowings
increased at an average annual rate of about 33%. However, during 1982-83,
deposits grew at only 10% per annum while borrowings grew at 20% per annum;
the slower growth reflected the tightened Liquidity in the economy and a
decLine in the competitive position of NACF relative to commercial banks due
to its inability to offer comparable services. Further. since NACF's deposit
resources are largely used ior rural lending and government business, funds
available for urban lending are limited. This, in turn, restricts client and
deposit mobilization in urban areas. NACF' s management is giving serious
attencion to the issue of competitiveness with other banks and will establish
a Task Force to anaLyze trhe situation and make recommendations.
2.21      Resource Allocation.  As noted earlier, the Government plays the
leading role in allocation of NACF resources (para. 2.04), thus determining
both the economic impact and income from the Loan portfolio. A reduction of
the Government's role in credit allocation is envisaged, and with greater
flexibility in tLis area, NACF should be able to mobilize increased resources
and improve returns on the Loan portfolio. However, in recent years, the
Government has increasingly used MACF's commercial funds for financing
government activities, especially fertilizer and chemicals distribution and
grain purchases. Payments due from the Government grew from 9% of NACF's
total assets in 1979 to 23Z. W 1,192 billion ($1.5 bilLion), in 1983 (Annex 1,
Table 1) and in the process, lending to member farmers nad to be curtailed.
Both MACF and the Governmenc are aware of this problem and a solution is to be
included under the planned reforms (paras. 3.04-3.06).



2.22      Resource Projections.  Historicallv. the volume of NACF lending has
been limited by the availability of funds racher than by loan demand. Never-
theless, NACF's projections oi resource requirements and availability are made
under the assumpcions ctat current pat:erns of Loan demand, farm households
borrowings, deposit mobiiization, and availabiLity of government funds would
continue. On this basis. NACF escimates chac tne gap between resource
requirements and availabiLity for its medium-term lending program will be
about W 119 billion ($150 million). The proposed Bank loan of $25 million
plus the expected IFAD Loan of $15 million would account for about 25% of this
resource gap.
Previous Bank-Financed Projects
2.23      Since 1972, NACF has received three Loans from the Bank for agricul-
tural credit projects. The first and the second projects were noth cLosed
within the original closing dates.  The third loan (Ln. 1984-KO) was f"llv
disbursed and closed almost a year ahead of the expected Closing Date of
December 31, 1985. Utilization of Bank resources under all the chree projects
has been satisfactory from financial, institutional and developmental
viewpoints. The Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) eWimated ERRs for
the first and second projects at 38% and 23%, respectively.-   The PPARs
attributed the overall successful implementation of the projects to the facts
that NACF is a large, long established, cooperative credit institution, an
effective Technical Unit {TU) was developed in NACF, and Loan Appraisal
Officers (LAOs) were well trained in project lending. The TU and LAO skiLls
have continued to improve under the third project and project implementation
has been excellent.
2.24      All three projects provided medium- and long-term loans to support
investments for diversification and modernization of agricultural produc-
tion. Typical investments included orchards, greenhouses, sericulture,
sprinkler irrigation, on-farm storage, and poultry and pig production. The
actual investments financed evolved from the farmers' demand. The PPARs found
that the actual distribution of project investments differed significantly
from the appraisal predictions, primarily caused by changing product prices,
technological and institutional factors, and government policy. Nevertheless,
the projects fulfilled their primary goals of diversification of agriculture
and increased incomes and outputs.
IACF's Medium-term DeveLopment Strategy
2.25      In the next few years, NACF will be facing a significantLy changed
environment in both its banking and general business activities. In the bank-
ing field, the financial sector reforms being implemented by the Government
under the Bank-financed Industrial Finance Project (Ln. 2309-KO) are expected
to liberalize the financial system by allowing market forces to pLay a greater
role in determining interest rates and by deregulating the activities of the
3/   Appraisal estimates were 32Z for the first project (Cr. 335-KO) and
29-38% for the second project (Ln. 1328-KO).



- 16& -
varioUs cLasses of financial insEiturions so thac they can compete more
freely.  L[ACF will need to maintain a compecicive position in the financial
system, particularly on the resource mobilization side, and to offer services
and financial instruments aimeo at mobilizing Lone-term deposits. The medium-
term institutional development pLans enunciated by NACF (Annex 1) recognize
the changing business environment and aim at taking che necessary actions to
enable it to adapt to the changes. lain elemencs of this plan would: (a)
improve the efficiency ot banking operations so as to increase resource self-
sufficiency and maintain competitiveness with other financial institutions;
(b) diversify business activicies and increase the cooperatives' share in the
marketing of agricultural inputs. output and services, and in the domestic
insurance market; (c) strengthen education and training for cooperative staff
and member farmers; and (d) strengthen NACF's financial condition and improve
organizational efficiency and productivity.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Obiectives and Description
3.01      The proposed project would focus on agricultural credit and hence
would promote agricultural deveLopment through financing private sector
investments covering a wide range of agricultural production and rural income
diversification accivities. It would also address the institutionaL deveLop-
ment issues facing NACF, the main credit institution serving agriculture.
3.02      The project would have the following components:
(a)  subLoans for investment in agricuLtural production facilicies, farm
machinery and equipment, marketing and storage facilities, input
manufacturing and supply, agroprocessing facilities, and other rural
business opportunities to expand off-farm income sources; and
(b) measures to improve NACF's profitabiLity and resource mobilization.
Detailed Features
3.03      NACF SubLoans.  The project would finance NACF subloans to farmers
and primary cooperatives for the types of investments supported under the
three previous Bank-assisted agricultural credit projects (Cr. 335-KO,
La. 1328-KO, La. 1974-KO). These include on-farm storage, orchard
development, greenhouses, sericulture, farm machinery, small farm input and
agroprocessing facilities, warehouses and marketing facilities. It would also
finance business investments to diversify rural income sources that were not
included in the previous projects. These would include handicrafts, weaving,
machinery repair shops, inland fisheries, tourism facilities and wood and
metalwork shops. About 30Z of the subloan volume under the project would be
for nonfarm investment purposes, including development of cooperative
marketing-channel facilities. Most of the subLoans would be directly to
farmers or smalL rural businesses but some would be to the primary coopera-
tives for investments to benefit their members. Project subloans, expected to
number about 8,500, would go to rural borrowers throughout the country.
Because of the emerging market saturation in Korea for some agricultural



- 15 -
products and uncertainties about the vi.,bility of nonfarm activities, NACF
would carefully assess market prospects annually and select the activities to
be financed during each year.
3.04      Improvement of NACF's profitability and resource mobilfzation.  The
program of financial reforms being applied to the banking industry in connec-
tion with rhe Industrial Finance Project (Ln. 2309-KO) should be extended to
the agricultural credic system. This program includes provisions to (a)
reduce the role of Government in credit allocation, (b) deregulate the activ-
ities of financial institutions, (c) liberalize interest rates in a gradual
manner to increase the role of market forces, and (d) alleviate rhe poten-
tially negative impact on bank profitability of the present system of variable
lending rates combined with fixed-rate deposit contracts. An understanding
was reached during negotiations that Government would apply the relevant
financial sector reforms to agricultural credit provided by NACF.
3.05      In addition, the Government would, by December 31, 1986, in consul-
tation with NACF, complete a comprehensive review of NACF's financial
condition and propose measures, acceptable to the Bank, to improve the pro-
fitability and resource mobilization of NACF. Thereafter, Government would
take the necessary steps to enable NACF to begin implementation of these
measures. An agreement to this effect was reached during negotiations.
Issues to be considered in the review would be retention of banking profits
for use in expanding services, adjustment of charges for nonbanking services
to reflect their full cost, provision of a wider range of services, and the
costs of administering loans financed from various official programs, together
with ways of recovering those costs. The review would also include an
examination of ways for NACF to generate longer-term funds.
3.06      For the short term, special measures are necessary in 1985 and 1986
to strengthen NACF's financial condition pending rhe longer-term solution. An
understanding was reached during negotiations on near-term measures that the
Government would implement to improve NACF's financial condition. These
measures include payment of commission at the same rate as in 1983 or higher
for handling of grains on behalf of the Government, the transfer of selected
fertilizer and agrochemical distribution programs to NACF, and the
continuation of buying and selling price adjustments for Government grains and
fertilizers.
Costs, Financing and Relending Terms
3.07      Cost Estimates.  Total project costs are estimated at W 44,400 mil-
lion ($55.5 million) of which W 20,100 million ($25 million) or 44% is foreign
exchange cost (Table 3.1).  Project costs were estimated by applying Julv 1984
prices to standard models of the various plant, equipment and technical items
proposed for financing by NACF. The foreign exchange estimates are based on
results of a 1982 Korea Development Bank analysis of the foreign and local
cost composition for construction and equipment items. The overall cost esti-
mate includes taxes and duties of about W 4.5 billion ($5.6 million) or 10.
No allowance was made for contingencies as it is expected that any cost
changes would lead to an adjustment in the number of subloans. The sub-
sectoral distribution of loans shown in the cost summary is intended only as a



- 16 -
guideline. This guideline would be reviewed annually in the light of dis-
bursement experience and adjustments made as appropriate to insure that the
subsectoral distribution of onlending is consistent with the market demand for
credit.
Table 3.1:  COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total         Z
-   ( W billion)  -    -  (US$ million)  -    Foreign
Subloans
Production facilities          10.6    3.8   14.4    13.3        4.7      18.0    26
Farm machinery & equipment    3.9    9.7   13.6         4.9    12.1       17.0    71
Marketing facilities            3.5    2.9    6.4       4.4      3.6       8.0    45
Input supply facilities         1.6    0.8    2.4       2.0      1.0       3.0    35
Agroprocessing facilities       1.6    0.8    2.4       2.0      1.0       3.0    35
Other nonfarm investments       3.1    2.1    5.2       3.9      2.6       6.5    40
Total                       24.3   20.1   44.4    30.5    25.0        55.5    45
3.08      Financing.  The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of $25
million, amounting to 45% of project costs or 100% of foreign exchange
costs. NACF would finance $13.9 million, or 25% of the total. Subborrowers
would contribute the remaining $16.6 million, which amounts to 30% of the
total co-ts.
3.09      Onlending Terms.  The Bank loan of $25 million equivalent would be
made to the Government at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend the funds to NACF, which together with a further $13.9
million equivalent from NACF's own resources, would fund their $38.9 million
credit program. The Government's loan to NACF would be on the same terms but
may include an administrative fee of 0.05%.  Since MACF subloans are, for the
most part, directed to small farmers, NACF would bear the foreign exchange
risk. An understanding was reached at negotiations that the Government would
furnish financial assistance to NACF to help protect it against this risk.
The signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, between the Government and NACF,
with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.10      NACF's subborrowers would pay interest sufficient to maintain a
spread of 3% over the weighted average cost of project loan funds. With the
interest on the Bank loan at about 9% and NACF's other resources from 8-10%,
the cost of project funds would be about 9%. On the basis of experience
gained with previous projects, the 3% spread is adequate to cover the costs
involved. Given an expected rate of domestic inflation of no more than 8-9%
during the 1985-88 period, the proposed 12% on-lending rate is positive in
real terms. As part of the financial sector reforms presently underway, the



- 17 -
Government will gradually allow market forces to determine the Level and
structure of interesc rates, currently set at 1OX-11.5Z for all borrowing.
These rates are expected to move in line with international interest rates
adjusted for foreign exchange risk, and thus the lending rates for Bank funds
are not expected to cause any longstanding misalignment with domestic market
rates. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that NACF would maintain
a spread of 32 over che weighted average cost of project subloan funds and
would pass on to subborrowers any significant variation in che interest rate
on the Bank loan.
Procurement
3.11      Procurement procedures and arrangements of NACF are in line with
those of other financial institucions in Korea and are satisfactory to the
Bank. rhe procedures are designed to ensure chat procurement is performed
with due regard for economy and efficiency. Borrowers are required to procure
through Local compecitive bidding or local shopping using the chree-bid
method, depending on the tvpe of icems and the amouncs invoived. rhe goods
and works financed by subloans are small in value - the average Loan size is
about $3,000 - and purchased at various times by thousands of farmers and
other rural borrowers throughout Korea. The well-established locaL commercial
channels and an active competitive construction industry ensure reasonable
prices for the subborrowers. The costs and quantities involved in che agro-
processing, chilled storage and other equipment purchased by cooperatives are
too small to justify international bidding. Foreign equipment suppliers are
adequately represented through local agencies and there are many local sup-
pliers of agroprocessing and related equipment, including facilities to
service them, and competent civil works contractors. Both foreign and local
equipment suppliers provide technical assistance for the proper installation
and operation of their equipment, and competition among them is keen. Under
the previous projects, procurement by borrowers has been cost effective and
efficient. Normally, building construction in previous projects in Korea has
involved fairly small contracts, and wide experience with ICB on civil works
on other Bank projects has shown that contracts of this size do not attract
foreign firms.
Disbursements
3.12      Subloans by NACF under the project are expected to cover a three-
year commitment period commencing in the third quarter of 1985. The proposed
Bank loan would be disbursed by December 31, 1988 (Annex 2). The disbursement
estimates are based on experience under the previous agricultural credit
projects. The Bank would finance 65Z of NACF's eligible subloans to farmers,
small firms and primary cooperatives. Withdrawal applications for the lending
program would be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOE), accompanied by
a list of subloans and certified by the Project Manager. The documentation in
support of SOEs would be retained by the agency and would be available to the
Bank and the auditors for inspection during the course of supervision and
audit inspections. NACF is fully familiar with the use of SOE procedures, and
their accounting and internal control procedures are satisfactory to ensure.
that Bank funds are used for the intended purposes. A Special Account in the
amount of $2.0 million would be established for NACF and would cover all
eligible expenditures financed by the Bank.



- 11 -
Organization and Management
3.13      As in the previous three proiects, NACF wouLd be responsible for the
overall implementacion of the prorect.  NACF's *ecnnicaL Unic (TU) was creaced
to manage previous Bank-financed projects and is experienced in accounts. 'is-
bursements, monitoring and evaluacion, and reporting reLaCive to Bank Loans.
This division wouLd have primary resDonsibilicy for Drojecc activities and
would maincain suificienc stafE to ensure satisfactory project tmpLementacion.
The TU professional statf consLsts D: a manager. who reports  :) :he GeneraL
M1anager of the International BanK:ng Deparcment. :our senLor and one junior
technical staff members.  Princioai functicns of tne !rl are to:  (a) preoare
an annual Pro;ect implementation ?Lan %PLP); (b) SuDer-itse and monizar proiect
progress; (c) provide cecnnicaL advice and training to  .oan Aporaisai Orficers
(LAOs); (d) withdraw Bank Loan oroceeds: (e) orepare quarterLy orogress
reports; (f) liaise with the Bank o)n ail pro.ect matters; (g) prepare anc  Do-
date standardized farm models far use in subLoan appraisals; and (h) appraise
subloans above the free limit of branches/cooperatives.  rhe TU would be
assisted by a Projecc ImpLementation Commictee (PIC) comprising representa-
tives seLected from other departments in NACF. The PIC serves to facilitate
institution-wide support to and benefits from Bank-financed projects.
3.14      NACF's branch offices would be responsible for Lending operations
including monitoring, problem-soLving and recovery of loans. They operate
under cLose supervision by the TU, within the framework of the annual PIP
which specifies the subloan types and target amounts for the operating year.
Annual aLlocations of project funds would be adjusted to reflect projected
national or local market conditions and the effects of other development
programs. NACF branches m ke subloans directly to farmers and agribusiness
firms or to eligible PCs - for onlending to farmers or for their own
investments. In cases where the PCs make subloans to farmers, they receive
50% of the interest spread to cover their expenses. The branches and PCs are
allowed to grant subloans to farmers without case-by-case detailed appraisal
as long as the proposed investment is similar to representaci7e farm modeLs
developed periodically by the TU and the prospective return on investment is
at least equal to the interest rate. In the case of substantial variations
from the model, a branch or the TU carries out a fulL appraisal. Collateral
ard creditworthiness are verified for all applicants.  These procedures have
been used in previous Bank-financed projects and are acceptable co the Bank.
3.15      Subborrowers would be required to contribute a minimum of 20% of
investment cost either in cash or in kind, including the value of family
labor. The small-farm borrowers, i.e., those with Less than l ha of farmland,
would contribute 20%; others, 30% or more. Repayment terms for subloans,
determined according to projected cash flow estimated in the appropriate model
or individual appraisal, are expected to range from three to 11 years,
4/   Eligible PCs are defined as those having (a) overdues not exceeding 10%
of total outstanding loans during the immediately preceding year,
(b) adequate extension services, and (c) an adequate number of LAOs to
cope with the appraisal and supervision workload.



- 19 -
includinK grace periods rangLng from one to six vears. Rescheduling would be
.illowed in bona tide hardship cases. Most ot the subloans under the project
are expected co be below USS0.9000. and wouIld be npproved by the NACF branches
and PCs without Bank review.  Hcwe':cr. . few subioans. mainly to PCs tor their
own investments. may be i.lrger. Kee!Ding sucn suotonns in view, a free limit
Lof US$500,000 wouLd be maintained. An assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions that all appraisal reports for subloans .3oove rhe free limit would be
sent to the Bank for its prior review and .approval.
Accounts, Audits and Progrcss ReDoarts
3.16      Under previous oroyects.  IACF's .ccounrs have been auditee *3v
independent auditors acceptable to tne Bank. rhe aucits have been satist.c-
tory.  This recuiremenc wotiLd t)e miaintained inder the proposed oroject.  MACF
would maintain separate accounts for che project whicn -.ou.d be audited annu-
ally.  AnnuaL 3udit reports covering totaL operations ma t'he proJect accounts
together wich CODLeS ot the audited balance sheets and income statemencs.
would be submLtted to the Bank within four months after the cLose of eacn
financial vear. The auditors' reports on project accounts would include (a) a
statemenc on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, and
(b) an opinion on the reLiabiLity of the statements of expenditures as a basis
for loan disbursement. NACF would prepare a six-month progress report cover-
ing the implementation of the project. These reports would be submitted to
the Bank no later than August 15 and February 15 every year. NACF would
prepare a Project Completion Report and submit it to the Bank not later than
six months after the loan closing date.
Benefits
3.17      The proposed project would focus on agricultural credit and, hence,
would promote agricultural developm.-nt through financing investments czovering
a wide range of production and marketing activities. It would aLso include
measures to improve NACF's profitability and resource mobilization. Loan
demand projections and recent experience suggests that approximaceLy 8,500
NACF subprojects would be financed under the credit component. The subprop-
ects would benefit farmers and other rural or smaLl community residents by
enhancing agriculturaL production efficiency, supporting development of
nonfarm income sources for rural families, and contributing to the Govern-
ment's rural income support and population dispersion objectives. Analysis of
the types of investment subprojects proposed for financing indicate financial
rates of return in the range of 18-50Z and economic rates of return in the
range of 17-46Z. These estimates are similar to the financial and economic
results achieved by subprojects under the previous Bank-assisted projects
(para. 2.23).
3.18      The impact of MACF's medium-term institutional development plan,
along with the measures co improve profitabiLity and resource mobilization
which will be implemented in conjunction with the proposed project, would
improve the cooperative system's ability to expand services to its clientele,
provide financial strengthening, and enhance its roLe in rural financial
market development (Annex 1).



- 20 -
Risks
3.19      The main risk associated with the proposed loan is chat the
invessmencs financed by MACF might lead to overcapacity in particular areas,
such as orchards or greenhouses. However, the project provides that the
subsectoral distribution of onlending would be reviewed annually and
appropriace adjustments made to reflect market conditions.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINCS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations. understandings were reached with the Covernment
on the following points:
(a)  it would appLy relevant financial seccor reforms to agricultural
credit provided by MACF (para. 3.04):
(b)  it would impLement an agreed package of measures in 1985 and 1986 to
strengthen NACF's financial condition pending the comprehensive
review and longer-term measures(para. 3.06); and
(c)  it would furnish MACF with financial assistance to help protect it
against the foreign exchange risk (para. 3.09).
4.02      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on
the following point;
(a) it would (i) by December 31, 1986, in consultation with NACF,
complete a comprehensive review of NACF's financial condition and
propose measures, acceptable to the Bank, to improve the financial
performance of NACF, and (ii) thereafter, take all necessary steps
to enable NACF to begin implementation of these measures (para.
3.05).
4.03      During negotiations, agreements were reached with MACF on the
following points:
(a)  it would implement the long-term measures to improve its financial
performance (para. 3.05);
(b)  it would maintain an interest rate spread of 3S over the weighted
average cost of project subloan funds and would pass on any
significant variation in the interest rate on the Bank loan to
subborrovers (para. 3.10); and
(c)  all subloans above the free limit of $500,000 equivalent would be
sent to the Bank for its prior review and approval (para. 3.15).
4.04      The following would be a condition of effectiveness:
(a)  the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and MACF, under terms and conditions acceptabLe to the Bank
(para 3.09).



- Z1 -
4.05      Subject to obtaining the above assurances, the project vould be
suitabLe for a loan of S25 million rep4yable in 15 years, including three
years of grace, at the World Bank standard variable interest rate. The
borrower would be the Republic of Korea.



-       ANM  1
-22-                                Page I
KOEA
FOURlTH ARICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF):
Statement of Medium-Term Development Strategy (1985-91)
1.        Within the framework of its fundamental goals of increasing agricul-
tural productivity, improving the social and economic status of member
farmers, and contributing to a balanced development of the national economy
the specific medium-term objectives of MACF are:  (a) improve the efficiency
of Banking operations so as to increase self-sufficiency in resources and to
remain competitive with other financial institutions; (b) increase the share
of the agricultural cooperatives in marketing of agricultural inputs, out?Uts
and services, and diversify other business activities to maximize returns to
member farmers; Cc) increase the share of cooperative insurance in the
domestic insurance market and develop medical and other social insurance
schemes for the benefit of members; {d) strengthen the education and training
activities aimed at development of m-mbe- cooperatives and member farmers; and
Ce) strengthen NACF's financiaL condicion and improve organizational
efficiency and productivity.
2.        To achieve these objectives, NACF will initiate measures, as
necessary, in the specific areas outlined below:
Banking Business
(a) Strengthen deposit mobilization by developing new types of deposits
to increase the volume, particuLarly of Longer-term deposits, with a
view to make NACF seLf-reliant for resources and reduce dependence
on government funds for meeting the medium and Long-term credit
needs of member farmers;
(b) Enhance its efficiency of resource allocation by (i) carefully
evaLuating the market prospects for incremental output from invest-
ment proposals taking into consideration Korea's international
comparative advantage, and (ii) giving priority to develooment of
diverse farming system , and nonfarm income and employment
opportunities;
(c) During 1985 assemble a task force to assess the competitiveness of
MACF and the primary cooperatives (PCs) in the context of the
ongoing financial sector reforms. In light of the findings of the
task force, initiate steps to strengthen tne competitive position of
NACF and the PCs in the banking business; and
(d) Take steps to improve profitability of the banking business covering
inter alia reorganization of branches to eliminate loss centers,
control of expenses, revision of the branch network after careful
assessment of profitability, expansion of profitable banking
services and seeking remedial actions to the negative financial
consequences of government intervention.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
- 23 -
General Business
(a) Expand cooperative marketing outlets (such as supermarkets, chain
stores, distribucion centers), transport and storage facilities, and
the network of farm machinery service centers and gas stations;
(b) Invest in agro-processing facilities with a view to achieve vertical
integration and maximize value added for the benefit of member-
farmers;
(c) Expand marketing of agricultural outputs and purchase of agricul-
tural inputs and consumer goods; and
(d) Increase advertising and promotion to develop a strong brand and
product image for consumer products of the cooperatives.
Insurance Business
(a) Develop a variety of insurance activities, such as medical and
annuity insurance etc., for the benefit of member farmers, and by
aggressive marketing expand the share of NACF and the PCs in the
domestic insurance market.
Education and Training
(a) Strengthen t-aining activities and give high priority to training of
senior management and staff in modern business management practices
particularly in banking industry, training of trainers, and training
in modern banking technology.
Organization
(a) Accord top priority to increasing the net income of NACF and the
Cooperatives, reversing the recent deterioration of financial
condition, and rebuilding capital and reserve accounts.  To this end
take all possible measures to control costs and increase incomes and
encourage the Government to alleviate the losses resulting from
government-directed activities;
(b) Complete computerization of the on-line terminal system for the
banking business by end 1984, of all lending activities by end 1986,
and of all other business activities, as well as a comprehensive
management information system by end 1989;
(c) Review the present organizational structure with a view to
reorganizing it to cope with the era of specialization in business
activities; and



ME1
Page 3
-24-
(d) Review the present organization of lending activities by source of
funds with a viev to integrating them, in parallel with consolida-
tion of special government funds in fever numbers. and apply uniform
standards in lending policies and procedures.



ANNE 1
-25 -                               Table I
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CBrT PROJECT
RACY: Audited Belance Sheets. 1979-83
(Vbo oillion)
1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
Assets
Cash and deposits                   213,233    198,447    170,761    400,848    346,030
hrketable securities, at cost       451,956    509,035    458,172    399.394    347,097
Receivables
Loans and overdrafts              853,141  1.189,499  1,833,013  1,982.157  2,434,293
Trade and other                    146.853    203,259    212,241    214,063    225,371
Subtotal                         999.994  1.392,758  2.045.254  2.196.220  2.659.664
Less: Allowance for doubtful
accounts                     4,505      3,875       7,052      4.936      5,675
Subtotal                         995.489  1.388.883  2.038.202  2,191.284  2.653,989
rnventories, at lower of cost or
market                             177,716    212,040    247,291    343,461    319,440
Due from Goveurnent of Korea        197,912    337,688    705,042    881.552  1.192,835
Property and equipment, at cost
less accumulated depreciation      42,647      47,959    146,842    137,990    157,318
Other assets                         12,522      17,155     38,005     42,668     52,682
Total Assets                   2,091.475  2,711.207  3,804,315  4,397.197  5,069,391
Liabilities and Stockholders'
Equity
Deposits                          1,022,569  1,309,049  1,871.080  2.175,414  2,288,391
Trade payables                       65,756      99,655     91,902     97,725    108,577
Claims and Insurance reserves       125,099    164,128    205,934    233,656    306,361
Accrued interest and other
liabilities                       113.386     95,715    186,738    226.124    425,850
Reserve for employees' seerance
liability                          17,022     21,410      74,308     85.957    107,718
Borrowers                           666,055    914,264  1,182,360  1,435.581  1,704,613
Stockholders' equity    -
Comn stock                         12,274      16,154     27,727     28,842     29,997
Capital surplus                    24,886     24,886    103,689    103,718    103,725
Reserves                             2.563      3,688     64,803     75,571     53.852
Unappropriated retained earn-
ings or deficit                  41,865     62,258      (4,226)   (65,391)   (59,693)
Subtotal                          81.588    106,986    191.993    142,740    127,881
Total Liabilities acnd
Stockholders' Equlty         2,091.475  2.711.207  3,804,315  4,397.197  5.069,391



26                              ANN  CI
Table 2
-REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NACF: Audited Income Stateents (1979-83)
(Won million)
The year ended December 31               1979       1980        1981       1982        1983
Revenues
Sales and service fees               620,526    687,883    531,786    457,114    503,446
Subsidized fertilizer sales          246,551    353,848    557>090    435,624    474,889
Interest income on loans and
deposits                            132,313    188,674    298.057    257,793    256,061
Interest on marketable securi-
ties                                78,991      92.095    107,149      89,177      57,006
Insurance premius                     44,850      55,978     58,509      68,959    113,398
Commissions and other                 20,104      40,317     45.223      20,893      33,639
Subtotal                        1,143,335  1,418.795  1,597,814  1.329,560  1,438,439
Cost and Expenses
Cost of sales and service fees       616,620    684,598    533,456    455,962    492,564
Cost of subsidized fertilizer
sales                              242,383    321,606    497,696    374,176    409,569
Interest charges and commissions    174,270    274,127    340,708    Z96,353    249,982
Tnsurance claims, reserves and
dividends to policyholders          56,867      74,289    101,823    113,790    139,813
Selling, general and administra-
tive expenses                       32,051      39,865    108,723    128,376    147,054
Provision for doubtful accounts           400          -      3,795         520       1,015
Sabtotal                        1.122,591  1,394,485  1.586,201  1.369.177  1,439,99
Operatlng Profit (Loss)            20,744      24,310     11,613    (39,617)    (L,558)
Other income of loss, net                2,144      (1,334)     2,192    (14,659)    (7,069)
Earnings or Loss Before
Income Taxes                     22,888      22,976     13,805    (54,276)    (8,627)
Income taxes                               360         358        863         842       2,083
Net Earnings (Loss)                22.528      22,618     12.942    (55,118)   (10,710)
Earnings per share                      23,105      17,378      4,667           -           -



-27-                            ANNEX1
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PPOJECT
NACF: Net Earnings (After Taxes) by NACF Departments
(Won million)
General             Banking            Insurance           Total for
Year        department          department          department              NACF
1979          (1,893)             14,475               9,949              22,531
1980          (9,019)             16,758              14,879              22,618
1981             588              11,801                 553              12,942
1982         (27,674)            (27,835)                391             (55,118)
1983         (12,075)              3,766               2,401             (10,710)
Source:  Annual Audit Reports of NACF for the relevant years.
Note: Individual department data may not add up to total since inter-
departmental entries are eliminated when total for NACF is compiled.



-28-    -                           AN     
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NACF and the Primary Cooperatives:  Estimate of Losses
due to Government Policies
(Won million)
1981         1982         1983
Net losses resulting from inadequate com-
mission received for nonbanking servi-
ces.                                           11,259       12,150        8,672
Net losses resulting from inadequate
spread allowed on relending of govern-
sent funds.                                    15,666       18,403       21.626
Net losses resulting from interest rate
policies on deposits and lending              27,642        57,369       13,898
Total Estimated Losses                     54,567        87.922      44.196
Actual Losses (Profit) of NACF            (12.942)       55.118       10.710
Capital and reserves accounts (NACF) /a        191,993       142,740      127,881
Z decline from previous year                        -           26           11
Government dues as Z of total assets             18.53         20.05       23.53
Capital, reserves, earnings of Primary
Cooperatives                                 199,901       221,093     229,326
/a   The net worth (equity) declined by 342 during the period 1981-83.



ANNMC1
- 29-                             Table S
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MACY and Prisary CDoperatives: Estimate of Losses due to Inadequate
Commission Paid by the Government on Nonbanking Services /a
(WIn million)
1981          1982          1983
Commission Amount
A. Requested by the NACF                     31,650         30,352        26,593
B.  Agreed by the Government                 25,842         20,898        22,751
C.  Actual paid by the Government            20,391         18,202        17,921
D.  Losses (A - C)                           11,259        12,150          8,672
Memo Ites
1. B as % of A                                   81            69             85
2. C as Z of A                                   64            60             67
3. C as % of B                                   79            87             79
4.  NACF losses (profit) on general
business lb                              (588)       27,674         12,075
/a  The services performed include:  (1) sale of agrochemicals, farm machinery
and fertilizers; (ii) purchases of barley and rice; (iii) straw proces-
sing; and (iv) sale of Government grains and bonds.
/b  The general business of NACF comprises many other nonbanking activities
besides the Government-behest sale and purchase of agricultural inputs and
outputs. Iherefore, the Government payment of commission is the major,
rather than the sole, determinant of the profitability of general business
activities.



ANNEX I
-30-                           Table 6
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOU'TH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NACF: Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance (1979-83)
(Won billion)
Indicators                              1979    1980    1981    1982   1983
Total Assets                                2,091   2,711   3,804   4,397  5,069
of which /a
- Banking                                 1,842   2,380   2,904   3,379  3,840
- Insurance                                 163      216     266   1,318  1,445
- General                                   490      744   1,077      304    377
Total Loan Portfolio                          853   1,189   1,832   1,982  2,434
Total Equity                                   81      107     192      143    128
Total Deposits                              1,022   1,309   1,871   2,175  2,288
Total Borrowings                              666      914   1,182   1,435  1,704
Percentage of Average Total Assets                            (Z)
a.  Gross income                             61       59      49       32     30
b.  Purchases and selling costs              46       42      31       20     19
c.  Financial expenses                       12       14      14       10      8
d.  Gross spread (a-(b+c))                    3        3       4        2       3
e.  Administrative expenses                 1.7      1.7     3.3      3.1    3.1
f.  Net profit                              1.2      1.0     0.4    (1.3)  (0.2)
Other Ratios
a.  Net profit as % of average equity        50       27       8      (33)    (8)
b.  Total debt/equity                      11:1      8:1     6:1    10:1   13:1
c.  Avg. cost of borrowing                  4.4      6.8     7.0      6.8    7.0
d. Avg. interest earned on
loan portfolio                       11.1    13.8    14.5    10.5    9.1
e.  Avg. interest paid on deposit          12.4    13.3    13.3    10.4    6.8
f. Avg. spread available to
cover administrative costs            1.9     3.2      3.1     1.2    2.3
/a   The totals do mot add up due to eliminations.



ANNEX 2
31 -                               T-   7
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Primry Cooperatives:  Balance Sheets 1980-83
(Won million)
As of December 31,                            1980        1901        1982        1983
AssetS
C-r-e57tt snd Sanktn
currency an  cecks                          25,979      37.792      52.491     65.611
Due from MACF                              291,108    406.286    455,700    398.788
Loans from mutual credit funds             527,993    750,383  1,213,793  L,367,905
Government loans
Production, short-term                         -    135,558    177,773    217,063
Agriculture developmuent                       -      78,621     97,179    121.219
National invesneent                            -      71,461    104,930    136,452
Mechanization                                  -      87,421    146,678    213,626
Rural housing                                  -    322,036    337,778    366,320
Others                                         -    116,264    119,424    149,171
Subtotal                               620,575    811,361    983,762  1.203,851
Others                                     103,162    151,532       99,067    126,672
Total Credic and BankinB             1,568,820  2,157,354  2,804,813  3.162,827
*Noankin&  Business
~Trade rece.vabies                          81,353      94,202    104,989    144,002
Inventories                                230,243      92,161      76,937     91,347
Mutual insurance                            27,145      41,184      51,838     48,261
Miscellaneous                                4,672    208,611    280,758    276,680
Paid in stock to NACF                       25,344      27,207      28,318     29,425
Fixed assets                               163,749    188,210    225,104    249,333
Others                                         797       1,647       1,345       1,521
Total Nonbanking Business              533.303    653,382    769,289    840.569
Total Assets                         2.102,123  2,810,736  3,574,102  4.003,396
Liabilittes
Cr-edtt-a-nd Banking
Ve-pouaXtcs                                823,784  1,163,315  1,571,487  1,730.7U7
Funds borrowed
Mutual credit                             63,012      59,493    135,144    120,796
Loanable funds                           351,670    810,242    949,956  1,174,774
Facilittes                                59,858      62,538     56,299      51.763
Others                                   295,146      44,451     54,132      75,176
Subtocal                               769,686    976,724  1,195.531  1,430,509
Miscellaneous                               50,583      72,564     87,454      88,840
Others                                         930       1.680       2,416      2,158
Total Credit and Banking             1,645,983  2,214.283  2,856,888  3,253,042
No nking 3ustnesr
-lTde payables                             239,734    106,790       90,813    108,055
Mutual insurance                            32,670      44,720      58,745     49,347
Miscellaneous                                5,778    207,297    296,222    287,504
Allowance and others                        12,171      37,745      50,341     76,122
Total Nonbanking Business              290,353    396,552    496,121    521,028
Caitl and Sul
bscrie  cap ta                           126,212    144.567    156,276    166,4A7
Surplus                                     24,116      35,934     42,947      41,188
Total Capital and Surplus              150,328    180,501    190.223    207,635
Profit or Loss                                15,459      19,400      21,S70     Zl,601
Total Liabilities and Capital        2,102.123  2,810,736  3,574,102  4,003,396



AN   2
32 -                             Table 8
REUULIC OF KOrM
FOIRTH ACRICLILTUNAL CREDIT PROJECT
Primary Cooperativs:Income Statementm, 1980-83
lear endlng Decmber 31,                   L980      1981       1982        19S3
Income
Credit *nd aakiu
Itiieaecomt oilans                 220,408    341.744    3;9,319    381,677
lnteremt on due                     6L,738     80.595    'A.330       33.800
Fee and comissions                   1,063      2,404       1,791      2,144
Oth'r In                            25,547     47,882      50,344     59,773
Subtotal                         308.756    472,625    497.784    477.394
Noab.ukinn buineas
nQMMUH          --255,631    278,212    280,153    247,737
Living mterials                    105,758    123,433    140,751    222.566
Sale                               252,596    148,849    124,164    134,837
Warehouse                           21,94S     28,143      38,708     42,046
Utilization                          1,41       2,154       1.972      1,748
Processing                           3.793      3,891       3,247      2,618
Transportation                       6,074      8,023       9,299      9,793
Iatual insurance                    10,605      12,880     16,648     14,978
Galdance                             1,272        132          91      1,166
Nombuainess and special Incom        4.970      7,958      15,56Z     15,704
Other                                    -          -       3,930      3,902
Subtotal                         664,095    613.675    634.525    697.095
Total of Cro  Ine                972.851  1.086.300  1.132.309  1.174.489
-ordt aod Bnking
interest on  e-posita              126,552    192.417    217,221    185,260
Incerest on borrowinp              108,665    166,659    144,375    150,650
Other expee                         20,579     36,150      38,991     35,305
Subtotal                         255.796    395,226    400,587    371.215
Nonbktza Business
clcse         -                 238,376    251,938    261,251    225,570
Living materiL s                    97,242    114,349    132,427    210,955
Sales                              244.168    138.539    115,409    125,098
Warehouse                            8,753      9.758      11,959     11,952
Utilization                          1,413      2,454       1,929      1,864
7roesa.ing                           3,189      3.101       2,536      1,997
Tr-nsportation                       5.310      7,261       7,419      7.387
lktual insurance                     5,451      6,995       7.764      7.374
Guidance                             4,846      6,030       7,171      8,250
Nonbualnes  and special income       1.329      2,475       1,504      1.672
Other                                    -          -       3,548      3,720
Subtotal                         609.077    542,900    552.917    605.839
C nral Administrative Expenses
Personnel expenses                  72,356     86,565    101,704    113,167
Retlremeat grants                        -      8.257      10.249     11,432
Expenditures                        18,948     32,553      41,897     47,753
Public tazes                             -          -         303        611
Subtotal                          91.304    127.375    154.153    172.963
Total of Cross ERpenoe.          956,177  1,065.501  1,107.657  1.150,017
Profit Before Corporation Tax    16.674      20,799      24.652     24,472
Corporation tax                        1.215      1.399       2.782      2,781
Profit After Corporation Tax      15.459     19,400      21.870     21.691



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
fiscal year
and semester                      Disbursements                        Cumulative
1986
set                               5.0                                 5.0
2nd                               3.5                                 8.5
1987
Ist                               3.5                                12.0
2nd                               4.0                                16.0
1988
ist                               4.0                                20.0
2nd                               2.5                                22.5
1989
lst                               2.5                                25.0
2nd



ANNEX 3
- 34 -                              Page I
KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Materials Available in Project File
A.  Selected reports and studies relating to the sector or the subsector
1. IBRD, RapubLic of Korea Agricultural Sector Survey
Report No. 4709-KO, April 1984.
B.  Selected reports and studies relating to the project
1. NACF, (Preparation Report for) The First Agricultural Sector Loan
December 1983
2.  NACF, Supplmmentary Data for Appraisal, June 1984
C. Selected vorking papers
List of Supporting Tables
1. Audited Balance Sheets, 1979-83.
2. Audited Income Statements, 1979-1983.
3. Indicators of Financial and Operational Performance, 1979-1983.
4. Analysis of Loans, 1979-83.
5.  Percentage Distribution of Loans by reia and Purpose, 1979-83.
6. Analysis of Loan Arrears, 1979-83.
7. Structure of Resources and Loans.
8. Incremental Resource Mobilization by Sources, 1979-83.
9.  Projected Resource Requirements, Availwhility and Cap, 1984-91.
10. Met Earnings by NACF Departments.
11. Balance Sheets for Banking Activities, 1979-83.
12. Income Statement for Banking Activities 19?9-83.
13. NACF and the Primary Cooperatives: Estimate of Losses due to
Covernment Policies.
14.  Estimate of Losses due to Inadequate Comnission Paid by the
Covernment on Nonbanking services.
15. Estimate oE Losses on Account of Relending of Covernment Funds.
16.  Estimate of Losses 4ue to Interest Rate Policies.
17. Analysis of Dues from Covernment, 1979-83.
18. Primary Cooperatives: BaLance Sheets, 1980-83.
19.  Primary Cooperatives:  Income Statements, 1980-83.



-35 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
20. Primary Cooperatives: Indicators of Operational and Financial
Performance, 1980-83.
21.  Selected Performance Indicators for First Agricultural Credit
Project.
22. Selected Performance Indicators for Second Agricultural Credit
Project.
23. Selected Performance Indicators for Third Agriucltural Credit
Project.



- 36 -
REPUBLC OF KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDf PROJECT
Natio    AgrouLha CoopeiafN    FedeKifon
Organizaion Choit
S~~~~~~~~~
(6a)  Iu*ck
(o)~~~~~~(3
G~sc.Dpa  (ER)
Sici1RhgDoOewmut()            -           tuIbm
sommo dGuidanOgP?anwf (73)                   _ jCfg
Fa  h'ut 0patmmi 59)                  T&hieg
cwoo  SwAthau Deonr atmw (41)             uu C)
SmefflNxnig Depozwnent (41)AWtkd
FamnntDpcorhuv (59)                    &hse
CC       _ DKN  xcvy  0=  od (41)    C_n(195
malfios 1o"W)                     _      Famo
Scow & Foo  Tro DC    (/1a)             FWla40
Ons OgScztMW(46)                        AQSrl (17)
In so. KO    Banking Dscadnwt (58)
85iktV  po.fao1mn (42)
COboII93kmx0-c9Dsoo?rw*(93)
nVecUiOn Deoa?msn (62)
Young Prcs.mime Anm& Fdhmwnen
Swvpod k1nd LMraorrentOffce (26)
Oa:_omnealOce
I    (12291)    1                                                *-266d
139 Kutr05
(Numtof srf in Kcg
1A70 Pvn  Co
42CO
(29.70M~                   Bnk29



___________ _j_,,,_,                                                                                           IBRD 12351 B3
S         __            DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                      I
Cm iN a      t                                      OF  KOREA
r.a    S.                                                     -                                   SaE  Y     East   Sea
SEP W6OFE
Vellx c'JJ5APAN                                 )-
Sea                                                                                     A        A, E   N
I----- 
,10 ~~x c- f, c, )                                   t/          
1'=  !O  >2a 5 |
- --' -'
3-i
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2..rpa,,,v
31~~~~~~ -                                                     I                        -       0I., -            n _r   der -0n11.uc'.ofls
_34-                                                    _                                                _rrr
-  -  Pxiranc r l boundo,.s
_                         - _  _ _ lr.rno,.onol boundraries|
4.Soig                            3                  Mi-0 .  s   50          400
120           .21.                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 .2 -  e  o  0
Qr                         17r                          r                          :                          -2b      
AUGUST 1984






