Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4053-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMEbDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 29, 1985
thew offidal dutIes. Its contets may not _tmwise be dised wiout Wodid Dank aaiouzaio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1, 1984)
Currency Unit    =  won
US$1             =  Won 800
Won 1            =  US$0.00125
FISCAL YEAR.
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        =   3.28 feer
1 kilometer (kn)   =   0.62 miles
1 hecrare (ha)     =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)    =   2.205 pounds (Lb)
I metric ton (t)   =   1,000 kg
=   2,205 lb
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOK            -   Bank of Korea
LAO            -   Loan Appraisal Officer
LARISD         -   Law for Acceleration of Rural Income Source
Develooment
MAF            -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MOF            -   Ministry of Finance
NACF           -   National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
PC             -   Primary Cooperative
PIC            -   Project Implementation Committee
PIP            -   Project Implementation Plan
TU             -   Technical Unit (NACF)



- OFIIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:       The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
Amount:            $25 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The Government would onlend the loan proceeds to NACF on
substantially the sam terms as the Bank loan. NACF would
onlend the proceeds to final subborrowers at an interest
rate of 3Z above the weighted average cost of all funds
onlent for subprojects. NACF would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would focus on agricultural credit to
farmers, farmers cooperatives and small rural businesses to
finance investments covering a wide range of agricultural
production and other activities that would diversify the
sources of rural incomes. It would also address the
institutional development issues facing NACF, the main
credit institution serving agriculture.
Risks:             The main risk associated with the proposed loan is that the
investmpnts financed by NACF might lead to over capacity in
particular areas, such as orchards or greenhouses. To
reduce this risk, the project provides that the subsectoral
distribution of onlending would be reviewed annually and
appropriate adjustments made to reflect market conditions.
This document has a estrcted distibuton and may be usd by recip_ts only in t Perf _nc
of thei oica dutss contents may not oterwe be dscksed wihout Wodd Bank authoriutd



- ii -
Project Costs:/a                                         US$Nillion
Local       Foreign      Total
Subloans
Production facilities        13.3          4.7        18.0
Farm machinery & equipment   4.9          12.1        17.0
Marketing facilities          4.4          3.6         8.0
Input supply facilities       2.0          1.0         3.0
Agroprocessing facilities    2.0           1.0         3.0
Other nonfarm invescments    3.9           2.6         6.5
Total Financing Required       30.5         25.0        55.5
Financing Plan: IBRD                              -         25.0         25.0
NACF                           13.9           -         13.9
Subborrowers                   16.6           -         16.6
Total                          30.5         25.0        55.5
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY      1986    1987    1988    1989
US$ million
Annual        8.5      7.5     6.5      2.5
CumuLative    8.5    16.0    22.5    25.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5573-RO.
Map: No. 12351R3
Ia   Including taxes and duties of $5.6 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMEkDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERaNaIONAL BANK FOn RECONSTRUCTION   D DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LWAN
2o THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendacion on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for rhe equivalent of $25 milion, to help finance a
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
iLncluding three years of grace and would bear interest at the standard
variable rate. The Government would relend the loan proceeds to the National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) on substantially the sam terms as
the Bank loan. NACF would onlend the proceeds to final subborrowers at an
interest rate of 3% above the weighted average cost of funds.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following sizmmary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex L.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
deveLoping countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entireLy through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8Z p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices),
with more than 80Z of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her
to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the
share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14Z to 29Z while the share
of agriculture fell from 39Z to 17Z. Merchandise exports, principally
manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4X two
decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably
strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early 1960s well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government poLicies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shlcks, 1974-82.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 101 p.a_



until 1978. However, the -very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 18Z becween 1975-78, well ia excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at
over 18% p.a., compared co a race of IOZ in 1977. In addition, the large
volume of subsidized credit -wich was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Covernment's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional Light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in Line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in che latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroLeum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6% of GNP in 1980.  In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle' since the mid-1960s, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo ffwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GRP, and a 20% decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighs the
10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980,
unemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2X in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel,
raw materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10Z in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3% and
the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered hearten-
ing evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased only
moderately, and the 6Z rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Bence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total



-3-
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulace construction activities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Covernment s counter cyclical action together with the pros-
pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction accivities.. The recovery in export demand for
electronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9%.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5% which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 1OZ and a national savings rate of 29Z. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and th_ self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over the last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12% during 1983 and present indica-
tions are that this rate has been surpassed in the first half of 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1Z in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9% and to
Japan only 0.5%. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is very likely that Korea's exports will grow more
slowly and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the
impact oL such eventualities by investing ia domestic R&D and in upgrading the
skills of its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base.
II.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financiaL liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors Cx
up to 5Z in 1983, partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4% in 1983, up from a
recent low of 21.9Z in 1980. However, a savings rate of 29Z and a level of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5% without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been in the past. There has been a marked shift up in the demand for
consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of increasing savings
will largely be met by private savings as a result of rising income and profit
levels, Government is also taking action to raise further the contribution of
the public sector to savings.
12.       Korea has adopted price stability as a major objective in recent
years and has sought it through restrictive fiscal and monetary policies.
Money supply growth has been restricted to around 12Z over 1983 and all
indications are that the restraint will continue over the next few years. So



-4-
far, the measures adopted seem to have been successful. Consumer prices rose
by only 3.4% in 1983 as compared to 7.2% in 1982 and 18X in 1979. Preliminary
results suggest that 1984 will be a year of low inflation as well.  Korea's
ability to maintain a low rate cf inflation in future years will depend upon
its ability to sustain sound fiscal and monetary policies and to keep wages
from outpacing the growth of productivity.
e
13.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54Z of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-tern
debt, remains a manageable 20t.  The share of short-cerm maturities in total
debt is, however, high (at 35Z%, and is a cause for concern.  This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial mareets,
which has led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. Our
assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that while a
significant proportion of official assistance should be continued, Korea is
likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet external
capital requirements. This assessment was endorsed recently by the
Consultative Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that
meeting, the Consultative Group, recognizing the rapidly evoLving character of
Korea's economy and the trends in exrernal assistance, concluded that its role
as a forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of externaL capital
is now being fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was greed that the
Group should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrewing from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic
dialogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of March 31, 1985, Korea had received 75 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,311.54 million in loans
and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,087.17 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of Karch 31, 1985. Progress
on project implementation is generally sacisfactory. Although implementation
delays - mainly irrigation, highways and population had occurred in several
projects - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions
resulting from cost overruns during a period of high domestic inflation, they
have been addressed and resolved. The Government has taken measures to
increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. However, aS the Govern-
ment's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans for
counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country implemen-
tation reviews held jointly with the Government.  Nevertheless, despite the



recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank
borrowers in East Asia.
15.       The cu-rent pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-vnstitutional issues increasingly to making
loans -'hich are aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institu-
tional issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made
possible by relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding
well. Sector loans have already been made for Highways, Education and
Industrial Finance. The Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans
(SALs), which complement this approach by concentrating on issnes that have
macro and multi-sectoral impact.
16.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's Lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
technology enhancement objectives of the Government are being pursued with
Rank support through two projects approved in 1982, one for the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which finances research, development
and engineering and the other for the machinery industries which is designed
to provide financial and technical assistance to raise the productivity of
small and medium machinery firms. Future lending planned for industry in
Korea would include continued support for the financial sector reform, for
KTDC (second loan approved on October 25, 1984) and for the small and medium-
industry subsector, through the Small and Medium Industry Project approved on
April 16, 1985, which is expected to play an important role in the growth .of
the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of
development of Korean industry.
17.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context of the-second SAL.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, would support measures
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science
and technology education.



-6-
19.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income hcusing projects and two
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. The
Seoul Urban Transportation Project was approved on April 16, 1985, and new
projects in local government finance and water supply are under preparation.
Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-building efforts
initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving gradually to a sector
approach.
20.       Previous Bank Group assistance to Korea's agriculture has been in
support of specific projects through 17 loans/credits totalling $755 million.
Of this amount, 70Z has been for irrigation and rural development; 15Z for
storage, processing and marketing facilities; 11% for farm credit: 3} for
livestock development; and 1% for seed improvement. The level of external
assistance for Korean agriculture in the future is Likely to be much Less than
previously required to help finance the major irrigation and land development
projects which are now largely complete. Therefore, the priority for externaL
assistance over the next few years would appear to be in the areas of farm
credit, marketing and related services, and agricultural research. Closely
related is the need to improve rural roads and build up secondary cities. In
each of these areas, expanded government efforts are planned and continued
Bank support would strengthen the Government's program. Participation in this
investment program would also give the Bank an opportunity to help identify
programs and policy options and to support institutional development for
agricuLture.
21.       In 1984 the Bank undertook in Korea an Agricultural Sector Survey
which generally recommended that Government should stimulate nonfarm employ-
mpnt in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector, and adopt
a broader and longer-term view of agricultural problems. The proposed project
would focus on agricultural credit and hence would promote agricultural devel-
opment through financing private sector investments covering a wide range of
agricultural production and rural income diversification. activities. It would
also address the institutional development issues of NACF, the main credit
institution serving agriculture.
PAkT III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       The Republic of Korea has a land area of 98,200 sq km and a popula-
tion of about 40 million. As most of the country is mountainous, only 22% of
the total land area is cultivable. The population density of 400 per sq km
and 18.2 per ha of farmland is one of the world's highest. Because of this
population pressure, the 2.2 million ha of land available for agriculture is
intensively developed and used; about one-fourth of the cultivated land is
double-cropped. The available cropland is divided among two million owner-
operated smallholdings aver&ging 1.1 ha in size. Irrigation is available to
701 of the 1.3 million ha of paddy land, about 28Z of which has been consoli-



dated from the traditional very small plots into more efficient plots averag-
ing 0.4 ha. Virtually all of the cropland available has good soils, the
Korean climate is temperate and average rainfall of about 1,200 mm is adequate
for high production of most non-rice crops without irrigation.  Crop husbandry
is generally excellent with wide use of improved seeds, fertilizers and other
chemical inputs. Agriculture now produces 17% of Korea's GNP, employs 32Z of
the labor force, and is the main income source for 24% of the population.
23.       Major trends in the sector include declining rural population;
stabilizing staple food grain production and consumption after a sustained
period of sharp increases; rapidly increasing production and consumption of
horticultural. fish and livestock products; and graduallv increasing rural
under-employment notwithscanding continuing high Labor out-migration rates and
continued growth in mechanization. There are numerous public and semi-public
institutions serving agriculcure and a significant degree of government inter-
vention in the sector. Government activities include controls on land owner-
ship and farm size: direct investments in infrastructure; grants, credit
allocations and credit subsidies for private investment; price support and
marketing activities by government-controlled cooperatives and parastatal
agencies; and a limitation on the import of agricultural products that can be
produced domestically.
24.       For more than a decade the Government's main objectives for the
agricultural sector have been national food security, income equity for rural
families, price stability, and a high standard of infrastructure and public
services in rural areas. The Government has pursued these objectives through
policies emphasizing direct government investments and commodity price sup-
ports. Korean agriculture has flourished in this supportive and increasingly
protective environment. Over the past decade, rapid increases in the use of
inputs and farm machinery and improvements in the quality of farm land -
through irrigation, draina-e and land development - have increased yields and
labor productivity. The overall index of agricultural production (1974-76
base) in 1981 was more than twice the 1961 index, with the crops index up
about 90Z and the livestock products index up 380%. Yields for most crops are
high by international standards: rice yields are second only to those of
Japan. For crops and livestock products which can be produced domestically,
Korea is virtually self-sufficient. EHowever, some 5.9 million tons of grains
(mostly wheat, corn and soybeans) and 40,000 tons of beef were imported in
1982. The sector provides consumers with ample supplies of staple grains and
a good selection of other food products.
25.       Since 1967, rural household income has increased at an annual rate
of 6.4Z and household consumption at 5.3%. In real terms (1980 prices), per
capita income and consumption of rural households have risen even more
rapidly, at 7.9Z and 6.8Z p.a., respectively, reflecting decreasing household
size. Data for 1982 and 1983 indicate that effective rural household incomes
are now roughly on a par with urban salary and wage earner household
incomes. Farm families have income levels about equal to urban workers and
can afford the amenities of modern life at levels similar to urban families.
For both producers and consumers, seasonal and interyear price fluctuations
for agricultural products have been reduced substantially compared to those of



8
the early 1970s. Although there has been a large migration to the two large
metropolitan areas in the last two decades, 40Z of the Korean population still
lives in rural areas and in cities with populations of less than 100,000.
Sector Issues                   -
26.       For the future the Government is expected to continue to highlight
food security, price stability, and rural income equity as major objectives
for agricultural development. However, because of changing conditions in the
general economy and in agriculture, changes will be necessary in the character
of the sector and the Government policies affecting it.  The present small-                 a
farm, 'abor-incensive agriculture with most rural families relying. on farm
earnings as their primary income source cannot be sustained if tPe basic
objectives are to be met without introducing serious economic costs.  The
overall set of government policies and programs that were so st-ccessful in the
past is unlikely to be either feasible or desirable in the future. Develop-
ment of irrigation and adoption of improved technology over the past 20 years
have essentially solved the agriculture supply problem. Of the commodities
suitable for domestic production, Korean farmers now produce as much as their
markets vill absorb.  And, given the relatively high average incoui. and con-
sumption levels nationally, overall demand for agricultural products is
unlikeLy to expand much faster than the population growth rate, i.e., about
1.6Z p.a. Because Korea has little potential to compete in agricultural
export markets, this effectively sets a limit on the rate of growth of the
real value of agricultural output and farm incomes that is substantially below
the 5-7Z p.a. increases expected in manufacturing and other nonagricultural
sectors.
27.       Continuing policies stressing resource development and comodity
price supports would almost certainly lead to persistent agricultural
surpluses, particularly of rice, that could be disposed of in export markets
only at very substantial financial losses.  Also, because the most attractive
and least costly investments have already been undertaken, this strategy wouLd
entail more costly and lower return resource development. Furthermore, to
achieve the Government's income equality objective, commodity price supports
would have to be maintained at levels that probably would lead to increasing
government subsidies andlor consumer prices for food. In following this path,
Korea would join a large number of the more developed nations, including Japan
and much of Western Europe, that are saddled with high cost food, food sur-
pluses and sizeable budget outlays to maintain a technologically sophistica-
ted, but economically inefficient agriculture.
The Government's Strategy
28.       The current prosperity of agriculture and the resurgence in manufac-
turing and other nonagricultural sectors give the Government a unique oppor-
tunity to make policy changes that would allow Korea to escape the agricul-
tural subsidy and surplus problems afflicting many countries. The Government
has already begun to change policy directions with this in mind. The original
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) outlined a continuation of the high investment,
high price and high government intervention policies that worked well in the
1970s. However, even before publication of the Plan in late 1981, some



- 9 -
rethinking of approach had begun; which led to the SAL I agreements calling
for a phased elimination cf deficits in the grain and fertilizer price support
schemes and careful re-examination of numerous ocher elements of agriculturaL
policy. Similarly, in other sectors, the economic difficulties of 1979-81 led
to a general reduction in the Government's investment budget and a subsequent
revision of the Fifth Plan. The revised Plan, completed in February 1984,
would reduce the planned agriciultural investment for 1984-86 by about 101,
with essentially all of the cuts in the land and water development programs.
It also calls for a 60Z reduction in the projected irrigation investments for
1986-91 and highlights the need to revise price and subsidy policies, to
increase farm sizes, and to improve incentives for rural industry.  The
revised Plan, together with a 1983 law encouraging industry to locate in rural
(small city) areas, reflects an agricultural policy aimed at improving sec-
toral efficiency, reducing support costs borne by consumers and the Govern-
ment, and raising rural employment and income.
29.       The second step aims at improving sector efficiency while
maintaining rural income and population dispersion objectives by promoting the
creation of more nonfarm jobs in or near rural areas. The basic framework for
expanding rural nonfarm job creation is contained in the 'Law for Acceleration
of Rural Income Source Development" (LARISD), approved by the National
Assembly in 1983. This legisLation is intended to accelerate development of
rural income sources by drawing manufacturing and service firms into rural
areas and, thereby, increasing and upgrading Whe structure of rural incomes.
The Law requires the Government to formulate an official rural development
strategy that would be coordinated by the Minister of the Economic PlAnning
Board (EPB) and to establish standing oversight committees for rural income
development at the local, provincial and central government levels. Its
specific provisions authorize simplification and decentralization of invest-
ment approval, tax incentives, and priority in obtaining services and govern-
ment procurement contracts for industrial plants that locate in non-
metropolitan areas. Other actions planned by the Government to stimulate
employment in rural areas include construction of small rural industrial
estates and of buildings for sale or lease to private firms, designation of
and financial assistance for development of tourism zones, and improvement of
rural roads and transportation services. The revised Fifth Five-Year Plan,
together with the TLARSD, reflects an agricultural policy aimed at improving
sectoral efficiency, reducing support costs borne by consumers and the
Government, and raising rural employment and income.
30.       In the past, agricultural trade restrictions and internal price
policies have been major factors supporting the relatively high farm incomes
which, in turn, have enAbled rapid improvements in the quality of rural life,
high on-farm investment, and efficient functioning of the rural credit
system. The beneficial impacts of these policies in terms of equity, social
stability and broad-based growth have more than offset their economic cost.
However, because of increasing resource costs and domestic market saturation
for most agricultural products, a continuation of the present trade and price
policies is likely to become progressively less effective and more costly.
Therefore, the Government plans to reduce agricultural commodity import
restrictions and direct government price and marketing interventions. These
changes would be made selectively and slowly, but with a target for



- 10 -
competitive price levels and substantial reliance on market price mechAaisms
by the year 2000. This would give consumers the benefit of much lower food
prices, an important element in keeping Korean labor costs competitive.
Larger farms, higher productivity and a smaller population dependent on agri-
culture for income would compertsate producers for the lower unit prices that
would accompany agricultural li'beralization. The Government has already taken
some steps chat will contribute to the longer term liberalization objective.
They have stabilized government purchase prices for rice and barley over the
past two years and begun to reduce the Fertilizer Fund deficits by phasing out
high-cost excess capacity in the fertiLizer industry.
31.       Current land law prohibits ownership of more than 3 ha of farmland
by any individual, ownership of farmland by nonfarmers, and farmland
leasing. This law is generally effective and has made an important
contribution to equalizing and improving incomes of rural families with
consequent beneficial effects on national well-being. However, the structure
of small owner-operator farms thus created is becoming less efficient and less
necessary with modernization and expansion of the national economy. Efficient
use of labor-saving machinery and, in the long run, maintenance of acceptable
levels of farm family incomes will be increasingly constrained by these legal
limits. Therefore, Long-term evolution of an efficient agricultural sector
that will provide good incomes for farmers requires some revision of these
Laws. Also, because che price of farm Land has risen above farmers' ability
to finance land purchases, there is no effective market in farm land; so some
assistance by the Government is likely to be needed to effect the necessary
land consoLidation. Although the 3 ha legal limit on farm size will have to
be raised eventually, for the medium term the Government's strategy is to
encourage consoLidation of the current very small farms into larger units
within the existing limit. Future actions include a comprehensive survey of
farmland ownership, control, and uses to more precisely define problems and
needed adjustments in existing land law and formulation of a plan to. improve
the land-holding system.
The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) and the Member
Cooperatives
32.       NACF was created by the Agricultural Cooperative Law of 1961 as the
apex body of the agricultural cooperative system in Korea. Objectives of NACF
and its member cooperatives are to increase agricultural productivity, improve
the social and economic status of member farmers, and assist in balanced deve-
lopment of the national economy. Through a network of NACF branch offices and
member cooperatives, the NACF system carries out a wide range of activities:
extension of agricultural credit; mobilization of funds through banking
activities; distribution of agricultural inputs and farm machinery; provision
of processing and marketing facilities and services; and insurance coverage
for members. The system serves over 90X of farm households in the country.
It accounts for over 95Z of the institutional credit supplied to the
agricultural sector, meeting about half of the credit needs of farmers; the
other half being met from informal sources. MACF's system is also the
dominant supplier of farm inputs, supplying over 752 of agrochemicals,
machinery and equipment and 10OZ of fertilizers. It is also a major purchaser
of output as vell, handling about one-fourth of the total marketed



- il -
agricultural commodities. The Government provides about one third of the
system's resources and exercises overall control of its operations, management
and policies.
33.       Because of its size, scope of activities, and responsibility to
implement government agricultural programs, the NACF cooperative system plays
a dominant roLe in the agricultural sector. In keeping with basic cooperative
principles, NACF and the cooperatives place great emphasis on services to
their clients and undertake several non-income earning activities such as memr-
ber guidance and training programs (extension services) and administration of
government agricultural programs. However, they aim at covering the overall
cost of operations through profits on banking and insurance activities supple-
mented by government subsidies to help support programs that do not cover
their own costs.
34.       NACF's Medium-term Development.  In the next few years, NACF will be
facing a significantly changed environment in both its banking and general
business activities. In the banking field, the financial sector reforms being
implemented by the Government with the Bank's support are expected to
liberalize the financial system by allowing market forces to pLay a greater
roLe in determining interest rates and by deregulating the activities of the
various classes of financial institutions so that they can compete more
freely. NACF will need to maintain a competitive position in the financial
system, particularly on the resource mobilization side, and to offer services
and financial instrumencs aimed at mobilizing long-term deposits. NACF's
mediumrterm development plans recognize the changing business environment and
aim at taking the necessary actions to enable NACF to adapt to the changes.
NACF plans to organize a task force in 1985 to assess its competitiveness in
the market and recommend steps to strengthen it. In view of the government's
recent decision to stop using the cooperative system as the sole distributor
of fertilizers and open this activity to private business, NACF and the
primary cooperatives (PCs) will attempt to improve services and control costs
to be able co compete with private traders. They will aLso improve their
marketing activities to meet the needs of domestic as well as export markets.
35.       Financial Condition and Performance.  NACF assets grew at an average
annual rate of 25% over the period 1979-83 and amounted to $6.3 billion
equivalent as'of December 31, 1983. The growth of assets was helped by the
merger of county/city cooperatives with NACF in 1981. Asset growth was
highest in the insurance business, followed by banking and general business.
Equity (paid-in capital, reserves and retained earnings) increased by 235Z
over the period 1979-82 as a result of retained earnings and a re-evaluation
of fixed assets in accordance with the Assets Re-evaluation Act. In 1982 and
1983, NACF incurred sizeable losses amounting to $68.9 million and $13.4
million as against profits ranging between $15 co $27 million during 1979-
81. The recent losses were mainly due to the government decision in 1982 to
reduce interest rates on loans and deposits in all banks including the
cooperative system. While the reduced rates were to apply to all outstanding
loans, only new deposits were to carry the reduced rates. Consequently,
income from loans was significantly reduced while the cost of deposits
remained substantially unchanged, thus causing a negative spread on lending.
Losses on banking activities due to the 1982 changes in interest rate policies



- 12 -
will, however, be reduced as earlier, more costly deposits mature and are
replaced by new deposits carrying lower interest rates. In fact the average
interest paid on deposits declined Erom 10.4% in 1982 to 6.8Z in 1983.
Provisional figures for 1984 indicate that NACF made an overall profit of
US$4.8 million for that year. -
36.       Another important reason for the 1982 and 1983 losses and generally
low rate of profitability during the earlier years has been that NACF was
required to cover the losses in its nonbanking activities, undertaken on
behalf of the government, from its profits on banking activities. The govern-
ment uses NACF and cooperatives as service agencies mainly for distribution of
fertilizers and other inputs and its price stabilization operations. The comr-
mission paid by the Government for the services performed by the cooperative
system has on an average covered only about two-thirds of the cost of per-
forming these services. In addition, the spread allowed by the Government on
its funds channelled to farmers through MACF and cooperatives for sponsored
programs ranges from 0.5Z to 2.5Z and is frequently insufficient to cover
leading costs. The Government has justified this practice, as well as the
underpayment of commission, on the grounds that it creates indirect benefits
to farmers by lower costs of credit services and inputs_ These arguments have
some validity. However, it will not be feasible to continue this practice
since the increased competition in the banking industry foLlowing the continu-
ing financial sector reforms will narrow down margins and may not provide
banking income sufficient to cover losses on general activities. ALso, it is
not advisable to continue this cross-subsidization since it hides the true
costs of nonbanking activities and thereby perpetuates financially and
economically inefficient programs and limits NACF's capabilities to carry out
institutional development needed for effectively competing with the rest of
the banking system in its urban and semi-urban operations. The budgetary
implications of immediately increasing the commission rates and interest rate
spreads on government sponsored lending will be substantial. A solution to
this problem will be reflected in the proposed reform of NACF which though
expected to be slow and gradual, will effectively address the problem of
NACF's low profitability.
37.       Previous Bank-Financed Projects.  Since 1972, NACF has received
three loans from the Bank for agricultural credit projects. Utilization of
Bank resources under all the three projects has been satisfactory from finan-
cial, institutional and developmental viewpoints. The Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPAR) estimated ERRs for the first and second projects at 38Z
and 23Z, respectively. The PPARs attributed the overall successful implemen-
tation of the projects to the facts that NACF is a large, long established,
cooperative credit institution, an effective Technical Unit (TU) was developed
in MACF, and Loan Appraisal Officers (LAOs) were well trained in project lend-
ing. The TU and LAD skills have continued to improve under the third project
and project implementation has been excelLent.



- 13 -
iv. THE PROJECr
38.       The activities and poLicy initiatives to be supported under the
proposed loan were identified in the course of the preparation of the
Agricultural Sector Survey in 1983 and through supervision of the current Bank
loans supporting agricultural JeveLopment. NACF prepared the project. The
project was appraised by the Bank in June 1984. Negoriations were held in
Washington, D.C. from April 15-19, 1985. The Korean delegation was led by Mr.
Uhm Rak-Yong, Director, Economic Cooperation Division, Ministry of Finance.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5573-KO, dated April 29, 1985, is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately and Supplementary Project
Data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed project would focus on agriculturaL credit and hence
would promote agricultural deveLopment through financing private sector
investments covering a wide range of agricultural production and rural income
diversification activities. It would also address the institutional develop-
ment issues facing NACF, the -ain credit institution serving agriculture.
40.       NACF Subloans.  The project would finance NACF subloans to farmers
and primary cooperatives for the types of investments supported under the
three previous Bank-assisted agricultural credit projects (Cr. 335-RO,
Ln. 1328-KO, Lu. 1974-KO). These include on-farm storage, orchard develop-
ment, greenhouses, sericulture, farm machinery, cmall farm input and agropro-
cessing facilities, warehouses and marketing facilities. It would also
finance business investments to diversify rural income sources that were not
included in the previous projects. These would include handicrafts, weaving,
machinery repair shops, inland fisheries, tourism facilities and wood and
metalwork shops. About 30% of the subloan volume under the project would be
for nonfarm investment purposes, including development of cooperative
marketing-channel facilities. Most of the subloans would be directly to
farmers or small rural businesses but some would be to the primary coopera-
tives for investments to benefit their members. Project sublorns, expected to
number about 8,500, would go to rural borrowers throughout the. country. The
subsectoral distribution of loans shown in the cost summary is intended only
as a guideline. This guideline would be reviewed annually in the light of
disbursement experience and adjustments made as appropriate to insure that the
subsectoral distribution of onlending is consistent with the market demand for
credit.
41.       Improvement of NACF's profitability and resource mobilization.  The
agricultural credit system is likely to benefit significantly from the program
of finAncial sector reforms that is being gradually introduced by the Govern-
ment. This program includes provisions to (a) reduce the role of Government
in credit allocation, (b) deregulate the activities of financial institutions,
(c) liberalize interest rates in a gradual mainer to increase the role of mar-
ket forces, and (d) alleviate the potentially negative impact on bank profit-
ability of the present system of variable lending rates combined vith fixed-
rate deposit contracts. An understanding was reached during negotiations that
Government would apply relevant financial sector reforms to agricultural
credit provided by NACF.



- 14 -
42.       If NACF is to reap the full benefit of financial reform measures,
however, steps must be taken to strengthen its longer term financial position
and to rectify the weaknesses described above (paras. 35 and 36). To that
end, it was agreed at negotiations that the Government would, in consultation
with MACF, complete by December 31, 1986, a comprehensive review of the finan-
cial condition of NACF and propose measures to improve its financial perfor-
mance. Thereafter, the Government would take steps to enable NACF to begin
implementation of these measures (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Costs and Financing
43.       Total project costs are estimated at $55.5 million of which $25
million or 44Z is foreign exchange cost. Project costs were estimated by
applying July 1984 prices to standard models of the various plant, equipment
and technical items proposed for financing by NACF. The overall cost estimate
includes taxes and duties of about $5.6 million or 1OZ. No allowance was made
for contingencies as it is expected that any cost changes would lead to an
adjustment in the number of subloans. The financing plan provides for a Bank
loan of $25 million, amounting to 45% of project costs or 100% of foreign
exchange costs. NACF would finance $13.9 million, or 252 of the total.
Subborrowers would contribute the remaining $16.6 million, which amounts to
30Z of the total costs.
Onlending Terms
44.       The Government would onlend the funds to NACF, which together with a
further $13.9 million equivalent from NACF's own resources, wouLd fund their
$38.9 million credit program. The Government's loan to NACF would be on the
same terms but may include an administrative fee of 0.05Z. Since MACF sub-
loans are, for the most part, directed to small farmers, the MACF would bear
the foreign exchange risk. Since the proposed Bank loan amounts to only a
small part of U1ACF's operations, however, it is not anticipated that the
foreign exchange risk will significantly affect the financial condition of
NACF. Furthermore, it was agreed that the Government would take measures to
protect NACF and the sub-borrowers against the foreign exchange risk of the
loan (Schedule 4, para. 3 to the draft Loan Agreement) and in this context an
understanding was reached at negotiations that the Government would furnish
NACF with financial assistance to help protect it against such foreign
exchange risk. The signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, between the
Covernment and NACF, with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (section 6.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
45.       MACF's subborrowers would pay interest sufficient to maintain a
spread of 3% over the weighted average cost of project loan funds (Para. l(a)
of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). On the basis of experience
gained with previous projects, the 3% spread is adequate to cover the costs
involved.  With the interest on MACF's other resources at about 8Z, the cost
of project funds to subborrowers would be about 12x. The anticipated 122 on-
lending rate is positive in real terms.



- 15 -
Procurement
46.       Procurement procedures and arrangements of NACF are in line with
those of other financial institutions in Korea and are satisfactory to the
Bank. The procedures are designed to ensure that procurement is performed
with due regard for economy and efficiency. Borrowers are required to procure
through local competitive biddirig or local shopping depending on the type of
items and the amounts involved. The goods and works financed by subloans are
small in value - the average loan size is about $3,000 - and purchased at
various times by thousands of farmers and other rural borrowers throughout
Korea. The well-established local commercial channels and an active
competitive construction industry ensure reasonable prices for the
subborrowers.  The costs and quantities invoLved in the agroprocessing,
chilled storage and other equipment purchased by cooperatives are too small to
justify international bidding. Foreign equipment suppliers are adequately
represented through local agencies and there are many local suppliers of
agroprocessing and related equipment, including facilities to service them,
and competent civil works contractors. Both foreign and local equipment
suppliers provide technical assistance for the proper instalLation and
operation of their equipment, and competition among them is keen. Under the
previous projects, procurement by borrowers has been cost effective and
efficient. Normally, building construction in previous projects in Korea has
involved fairly small contracts, and wide experience with ICB on civil works
on other Bank projects has shown that contracts of this size do not attract
foreign firms.
Disbursements
47.       Subloans by NACF under the project are expected to cover a three-
year commitment period commencing in the third quarter of 1985. The proposed
Bank loan would be disbursed by December 31, 1988. The disbursement estimates
are based on experience under the previous agricultural credit projects. The
Bank would finance 65Z of MACF's eligible subloans to farmers, small firms and
primary cooperatives. Withdrawal applications for the lending program wouLd
be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOE), accompanied by a list of
subloans and certified by the Project Manager. The documentation in support
of SOEs would be rerained by the agency and would be available to the Bank and
the auditors for inspection during the course of supervision and audit inspec-
tions. MACF is fully familiar with the use of SOE procedures, and their
accounting and internal control procedures are satisfactory to ensure that
Bank funds are used for the intended purposes. A Special Account in the
amount of $2.0 million would be established for MACF and would cover all
eligible expenditures financed by the Bank.
Project Implementation
48.       As in the previous three projects, MACF would be responsible for the
overall implementation of the project.  NACF's Techliical Unit (TU) was created
to manage previous Bank-financed projects and is experienced in accounts, dis-
bursements, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting relative to Bank loans.
This division would have primary responsibility for project activities and
would maintain sufficient staff to ensure satisfactory project implementation.



- 16 -
The TU professional staff consists of a manager, who reports to the General
Manager of the International Banking Department, four senior and one junior
technical staff member. Principal functions of the TU are to: (a) prepare an
annual Project Implementation Plan; (b) supervise and monitor project prog-
ress; (c) provide technical advirce and training to Loan Appraisal Officers;
(d) withdraw Bank loan proceeds; (e) prepare quarterly progress reports;
(f) liaise with the Bank on all project matters; (g) prepare and update stan-
dardized farm models for use in subloan appraisals; and (h) appraise subLoans
above the free limit of branches/cooperatives. The TU would be assisted by a
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) comprising representatives selected
from other departments in NACF. The PIC serves to facilitate institution-wide
support to and benefits from Bank-financed projects.
49.       NACF's branch offices would be responsible for lending operations
including monitoring, problem-solving and recovery of loans. Annual alloca-
tions of project funds would be adjusted to reflect projected national or
local market conditions and the effects of other development programs. NACF
branches make subloans directly to farmers and agribusiness firms or to PCs
for onlending to farmers or for their own investments. In cases where the PCs
make subloans to farmers, they receive 50Z of the interest spread to cover
their expenses. The branches and PCs are allowed to grant subloans to farmers
without case-by-case detailed appraisal as long as the proposed investment is
similar to representative farm models developed periodically by the TU and the
prospective return on investment is at Least equal to the interest Tate. In
the case of substantial variations from the model, a branch or the TU carries
out a full appraisal. Collateral and creditworthiness are verified for all
applicants. These procedures have been used in previous Bank-financed
projects and have worked well.
50.       Subborrowers would be required to contribute a minimum of 20Z of
investment cost either in cash or in kind, including the value of family
labor. Small-farm borrowers, i.e,, those with less than I ha of farmland,
would contribute 20Z; others, 30Z e- more.  Repayment terms for subloans,
determined according to projected cash flow estimated in the appropriate model
or individual appraisal, are expected to range from three to 11 years,
including grace periods ranging from one to six years. Rescheduling would be
allowed in bona fide hardship cases. Most of the subloans under the project
are expected to be below $10,000, and would be approved by the NACF branches
and PCs without Bank review. However, a few subloans, mainly to PCs for thei-:
own investments, may be larger. Keeping such subloans in view, a free limit
of $500,000 would be maintained and all appraisal reports for subloans above
the free limit would be sent to the Bank for prior review and approval
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts, Audits and Progress Reports
51.       Under previous projects, MACF's accounts have been audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audits have been satisfactory.
This requirement would be maintained under the proposed project. NACF would
maintain separate accounts for-the project which would be audited annually.
Annual audit reports covering total operations and the project accounts
together with copies of the audited balance sheets and income statements,



- 17 -
would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the close of each
financial year (Section 4.02(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement). The
auditors' reports on project accounts would include (a) a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, and (b) an opinion on
the reliability of the statements of expenditures as a basis for loan dis-
bursement. NACF would prepare A six-month progress report covering the
implementation of the project. 'These reports would be submitted to the Bank
no later than August 15 and February 15 every year. NACF would prepare a
Project Completion Report and submit it to the Bank not later than six months
after the loan closing date.
i        Expected Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project wouLd focus on agricultural credit and, hence,
would promote agricuitural development through financing investments covering
a wide range of production and marketing activities. It would also include
measures to improve NACF's profitability-and resource mobilization. Loan
demand projections and recent experience suggests that approximately 8,50O
NACF subprojects would be financed under the credit componenc. The subpro-
jects would benefit farmers and other rural or small community residents by
enhancing agricultural production efficiency, supporting development of non-
farm income sources for rural families, and contributing to the Government's
rural income support and population dispersion objectives. Analysis of the
types of investment subprojects proposed for financing indicate financial
rates of return in the range of 18-50% and economic rates of return in the
range of 17-46%. These estimates are similar to the financial and economic
resuLts achieved by subprojects under the previous Bank-assisted projects.
53.       The measures to improve profitability and resource mobilization that
will be implemented in conjunction with the proposed project, would improve
the cooperative system's ability to expand services to its clientele, provide
financial strengthening, and enhance its role in rural financial market devel-
opment. The main risk associated with the proposed loan is that the invest-
ments financed by NACF might lead to overcapacity in particular areas, such as
orchards or greenhouses. However, the project provides that the subsectoral
distribution of onlending would be reviewed annually and appropriate adjust-
ments made to reflect market conditions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement betwuen the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft project 4greement between the bank and MACF and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  An additional condition of effectiveness is signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and NACF (Section 6.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMHENDATIONS
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 29, 1985
Washington, D.C.



AMNEX I
TABLE 3                                          a
ma. aUuuu.c Or    s-mAL    sCAM  V6*L
lm  a.BuUxc o                      RZFESUCE ROUPS (WECIZOAI1AC) La-
2 b060      Qf  3mcm              NDS If ZMCMK          amou1
L%~:r             -IL/ b
urzmzg.~  maZ L  mcKIC          Ur. AIn A4 ACA
AM CIKMADs- MO 
IOTAL                               91.5       96.3      96.5
GRXICUMAL                           20.4       23.2      22 .
-  M   wm  CWM)                       180.0      430.0 t910.0               101.2                   21106.
zmm  ainsorzo  PM
(KILO RAI6 or OIL EUVX.UT)         143.0      495.0   11O040              567.3                   ns5.s
OPULATION.MD-EAR. (ZOXSAS)    25003.0    32211.0  3936.0.
nmu FOFULaTLOF CZ1 OF TOTAL)       2V.7        41.1      61-3             U3.7
POUITI0 E13 SEA  2000 O(L)                             50.5
STATOXART POFULATIO (MXIIL                             70.2
tOPULAIZON llg E2                                       1.7
FPOULATXOU DENSITY
PEI1 SQ. M.                      233.1       327.4    393.2             261.9                    35.7
mm SQ.  . AGI- LAIC             1223.2  t337.3   1730.3                1735.1                    92.4
POPULATON AGE STUCIIIRE (C)
0-14 uS                          42.9       42-l      33.1              39.0                    39.9
15-4 MU                           53.7       54.6      62.d              57.S                    5S.0
65 AII AI                          3.3        3.3       6.1               3.3                     4.1
rrRULAXI0 GXN RAME (C)
ToTAL                              2.1        2.5       1.7               2.3                     2.4
n38A                               4.7        6_7       5.3               4.3                     3.6
CDE BIIm  RATE (WA IBMS)            42.8       30.4      22.8              30.1                    31.3
QUDE  AMII AITE ( DEt TOlUS)        13.7        9.6      6.4               9.5                      8.1
OSS eUDDUCU FAUE                     2.8        2.1       1.5               2.0                     2.0
FAILY PLANNING
ACCEPORS. AAL tS)                    _       6710    66.0 Ic
USERS (.0O MARRIED 10)                       25.0      34.0              52.7                    40.3
FOD AM
IBM OF FOOD PROD. PM CAPT
(1969-71-100)                       89.0       99.0    125.0              123.0                   114.3
PER CAPITA SIFtLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF  YEQUIRDENT)       91.0       109.0    126.0             114-4                   110.6
PRTEXINS (CGANS PD DAi)           57.0       64.0      74.0              57.0                    67.3
OF WIUCN ANIMAL AID PULSE        7.0        S.0      14,0 id           14.1                    34.1
CRILD (ACES 1-4) DEAl RATE           8.6        4.0       1.9               7.2                     5.7
LXFE  CT. AT EIrE IN (YEARS)        53.9       59.1      67.3              60.4                    64.7
DIrSr PORT. RATE (PM  OBS)          78s3       50.1     32.0              663                      60-6
ACCESS TO SAFE yAlT  (FP)
TOTAL                             12.1       58.0      71.0 f.           37.0                    63.4
ORB"                              L8.6       84.0      85.0 7v           54.8                    7.1
RVRAL                              9.s       38.0      54.9 7W           26.4                    4.2
ACCESS TO EXCTA DISPOSAL
C: OF POFMIATIO)
TOrAL                               -.       250       64.0 Ic           41.3                    52.9
URBAN                                        59.0      80S.O 7           47.4                    67.0
-RRAL                                .          ..     50. 0 7           33.3                    24.5
POPLATION PEt PFrSICIA            3540.0     2240.0   1440.0             7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER MIRSc PERSON             3240.0 If.. 1790.0 /  350.0           2460.4                    815.8
POP. PER HOSPrTAL ED
TOrAL                           2510.0      1950.0    640.0 /b         10.2                     367.2
URBAl                           1Z80.0 If  1100.0    750.0 71           651.2                   *11.5
sMt                                 _.         ..        ..            2594.6                  2636_3
AmIXSSIONS PER NOSPrTAL BED            .       14.9                       27.0                     27.3
AVERAG SIZE OF NOUSEIOL
TOTAL                              5.6        5.2       4.5                                        _
u71A                               5.4        4.9       4.4
RIAL                               5.6        5.5       4.7
AWERACI NO. OF PERSONS/1ROOK
TOTAL                              2.5         2.3      2.0 IC
URBAN                              2.8        2.7       2.1 7;.
RURAL                              2.4        2.2       2.0 7;.
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZOF ON2DLINCS)
TOrAL                             28.4        49.9
URBA                              67.3       92.4
r-AL                              IZ.4        29-9     449 id



*                - 20-                                           ANNEX I
: AS  2T             L2 34                                        9=  a
m.zJC or     - soc0LU. D 4TU  0am1
um&, uuia.C 0a                      muvm     iRfin t D u (i0     A1313) la
NW6                      CW0i mg=5  UZM4)A
30?KDfhK                                  133
ZUTZ3AUL       Aur &  RVMz              LAT. AXE=C  4 CAlk
1311!   I=L                        940         103.0    107.0              102.0                    105.4
*1.3                     99.0        104.0    1Uo.o             105.9                    106.3
69.0       103.0    105.0               96.2                    104.5
1300313? TOTAL                     27.0        42.0      15.0               46.0                     43.2                       -
NAZE                     m.0         50.0     19.0               43.7                      42.3
FiZl                     14.0        32.0     60.0               43.1                     44.5
vOCmmrL CZ or   UD6IT                 14.2       14,-      18.6               17.5                     33.6
M.NM                              56.0        57.0      46.0               31.8                     30.1
SE013?                             34.0        37.0      39.0               23.5                     16.6
A    L.T    Ic! Ime CZ)              70.6        67.6      96.0               72.9                     79.5
pASSISM  CARSIT01305AND POP                                                   1.3 1.9  6.5  1m         46.0
_120mum PM              31.2       124.4    393.5              113.6                    225.6
TVF                  PM       1       0.3         13.0    164.7               50.1                    107.2
CsA  CIUML
)z6.) CnKCIaI03
133 UinIAD 1POPULAZZ03              66.2      136.3    173.1L               53.9                     63.5
CI1~& AA f            C               4.1         5.2       l.7 7              3.4                      2.6
70*?L u802 1     (0)               6304.0    11235.0  15414.0
135Y11 (9)                         26.1        32.7      325                33.5                     23.2
A13100L21  (1330N1)                66.0         50.0     34.0               52.2                     31.5
mmxmm  (POCEM                       9.0        17.0      29.0               17.9                     23.9
?ARZMCZIAZ0 RAU3 (P1R3E5?)
TOTAL.                              33.2        35.0     39.2               38.7                     32.2
WAVE                                49.5         6.A     52.4               50.9                     49.3
1A11                                17.2        23.0     25.7               26.6                     15.2
EWI   DE        P0  RA0               1.4         1.3       0.9                1.1                      1.4
mMIIM at PzIATE m
PECEX r  PRT IICU
2UD111 sr
32056? 5S 0o    168W6 .D                        17.1      16.1 /            22.2
32055? 201 or  wusI*                  ..       44.5      45.3     /         48.0
LOES? zes ? 3053130D6                 ..        7.1       5.7 7r             6.4
LOWEST 4MM Or IIOIS                   ..       17.7      16.9 i            15.5
LZVIL CS   R CA5)
U"                                    ..         ..     320.0 lh          lee6                      23A.2
.                                     ..         ..    270.0 7h            132.0                    l64.0
ISTIAD 2m     PZZU1 mM
LEYL CM  PER CW
13                                    ..         ..    370.0 h             177.9                    522.6
L                                     ..         ..    310.0 71            164.6                    372.4
SMAD P. uzM  *uoun
PO1E16?U    1.17 CZ)
..                                               ..      10.0 lh            23.4
1                                     ..         ..      1l.07              37.7
NOT AVAXLANI
BUT APPLICAIL
/ The Szop avazagm  for eah ludicur ae population-elSbted _zitheetIc .me.  Coverae of coetrfawns the
indicator dependt. n ava_laMlity of data efd L at unote.
Unless otberlme nted. 7Da for 10 rafet ro any yar betwm 1959 aid 1961; Data for 1970' betwme  1969 and
1971; ad data for ibet bcilt atImats- between 10 1d 192U.
/c  1975;  d 1977N; /a 1979; ff 1962;   . 3ealeed. not all practicing in the etry; /h 1976; /L 1976.
3I03. 194



- 21 -                                                                          ANNEX I
______I-CM_"____'                                                                          Page    3
ia*?   Atte 3. ata.t  dtaft..  etna  3-faS    . u.   23-u   waift..     - ltbso.. fit .~i                    -   -1..t  3. -  3 -.9         t..a    a
taafti. atat. .1    ttin.  nt.a. t..  ja.4- -i.t.   -,l.   - a.,.  Jtif -t..a  ss-sn    Wfl-ed
F _ t.-    n t'f3t03-   tit                                                                                                f-   .fitt- Ah.us  -c ba  Cf t.P-e.
M.3 C.c.3..ua  ai...Ci.   n   a.-a.     3M;3.3                                                   .C4           it.   c..t             cteti a             Cct.k     I.tt
3..3 a..a.                                             -                               Ptiac3- ta  ta...  ta--F- ?aaait  .td5.a ,. ..U3
-0        t -s    tea...tLit.   aa     1.. 3 W,113-._. 33.3--1-                                        -ti
.a7..ui3-=*                                                    tu.ct. ..  .ch.3i.e-   n.a.                    -a,..,    7p.-tt.uttU
lz  I-M. -1 I...  ,.aiatc..-a..   a.csa    eea    att.tsd
M. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -~t.   ac   v*a..                            .ca~    aa.                                tAi4    ..i*              a..          .   a   pia3IL..tt.
cait.at.ta- .0 a~aaft3-   3..t  t 3-ad  act. t fia  .t3;  ~ *a&4t.t3a   uttt           ita. .   tt    3.3    tarti, 3cu-a
*   itat.  itt.      1*32 dc..                                                                       Sc at tat        gkqtee.  Thc.da3. p...i@t  .ti..tcaii.   t.ta.
attta 3,c4   bclktuaa   atl   .a    La.  .
..wet.tt'.. -  tan t?.tft                  d- Il
r..   ntC3-  atfa-     (t           --.1-tt5 I.3.t  a3-2a_i
ateenat..ttt Sat     tantan-  a...a..3-                  aCn                          I- tt     ..4ta   A tc.        .            atn             -b         ti
r..t.IsaaatIM4a               f-       -. ~ -             ~                              an..    n    a   ..... I-   tat -  .-ti.i                 -n       a  
t.aUat    I-ttt !-i   Ott.   Stt..-         tata-          a        t3-t                           3-rca1_   - at.tn             -tnt..                t
33-Si ttiati.  41* I- -    .I6 -   3i    flSVWf -lttt  hit                           ai m.  n-L-.-). '.ii                     TVi   -1V           att-ca
f-st.               fu auii _t F         _.i  i     -a ..L       ..aft
13-at- -     ati-ttt    nf.t    rt.-                  aa   in                                   att   am-.t it Ittt  ti                               tit 
4.a.t te   n.e.. l. ticiatt. sege     ti.  0  3-      "a -L.                      -ic3--n-t  .t                 - -   sa..  Wk ttCtl  t i ?      .
n.  a   t. rt, adacii. .  f.ntit  .t -to-    I"-. finat  -1.i                            te.a.c.   -a.ar.c-aa  atdn t.nn                                    ia
a    tt 13-  *. .ai.e3-a-i..if..i.ia  ..    . c*iatd  t                       tftolw. tn-  tic ai: t.   -...n-             a.t-a. P.a.gt 
Wtn.c      .a.ic3 ttat._   F.r.n 3...  a     ai  at  .i ...                             ttai ...ii          ti.acaa    -   a-.    - ft,a is 3-a u,taa -1
....ct. 13-. in..                                                                 ..tun-t --act ,Us .-ia - ..cu.       a.as .."I-ea .     ..
tIti  1.41hit**aci  3-  1-iCa.                                                    *13, I-t. Prs  Itt f  C- Ii.att    stia't..-t-  -a
c.-. ir  taaatttI -            tn ~-P&,. - 1-1.  t          ..nn   iaat-a                                      Bn   ot    it.a..4I    n   a    f
3-Ut  fn-  . tta    t  4-a.U ~Wa                            
a.21-  .  a  tahIt-  ittan   - . .a            43  -tttt. ,   34.3-tIt..t    a.i.   a                                 a S    ta..t.asa   t.cta   .
-ta..i.iic    Cra   L.e.    latnt  - tc -A-     ant  dIn l  ap , ab. nciat                         ft. &Ctaw"
a-a..tt.aiieI.. ta~~t4.  t.t'sl   a  ntt.l --It                                                at. t.  .a e   .tati   aLt -- -t   a   ..at L-".ati
tn-.ci.  at.. 3c.lttca.i    ~b* -      at ts inttk eAt     .tb.                          fnt3t it .....a  tam. n-t                  -  .cieaa  .
...aattea   3.  ta.        itt: data.                              fnttat- ia             3.tta                            .
aec  rita. a.M4.-f a             ..... 4Acea.                     5-39 I.W-aC  0..tne a. t                                    t..at.t M                           -1ta    t    b  .uiat
Cr...'   fftat    t - .ttfa    a1 Dinataat.1   -ti                                    t       t -&a            t      i -atatt-Lt   t 3-t,&1   f ittt-.
t. attt  ~   .nfl it a    tat.t .ttaat tci-.tei.  ~             t  Itttiatta. (ar t            t.ia.itl -            3- Ia
Ist la.ta  - atf    tuaa a"   tfl.t) -  -L t.t..a3ft_                                          t. ti
aft3    -  ata   td.it3-tti    .t1  fflta ,              a
-     --DUct3   0             -nIl  aaai    it-At aiimtf   nNc    at   n.it..i.  -at.i   na   t sn   aitl   -
ow  ft  -t  Pd                      PM   r     ~     ~    ~    n-et.a   i  w.             tiinnit.tttina.  .
in.-      rta.                                                                                  .a data; in. nat.. reinss"   T     att.
i.e.  at.    ttd.t it -.7t..t  iCa-,taa3      .. P"   ft.9  .-i.                    a .c-..t-rau   *   t                   -taat          -1-tfa.at



-22 -
ANM     I
Population       39.96     (1ld-1983)                                                                                    Page 4, of 
CW  per capita:  US52.010  (1983)
EDWA - iCOMIC INDICATOUS
Annuit
(miLLLiI US5$ at                             Annual grovth rates CZ)
current pricea)                             AetumiProjected
Indicator                                     1983/a          1979        1960        1981       1982       1983/a            1990
MXML  A:CD0NTS
Gross doientic prodout la                  76.551            7.1        -3.5         6.9        5.5         9.5              7.5
Agriculture                              10.527            6.7       -21.7        24.5        4.1         6.3              3.5
Industry                                 30.219            8.2        -1.0         5.0        6.8        12.7             10.0
Services                                 35,805            6.7         2.9         3.1        4.9         6.9              6.5
Gnsnluptlon                                56,530            7.4        -1.0         3.2        4.3         6.3              7.5
Gross inveaeaene                           20.763           17.5       -24.4         Z.2       13.1        16.6              7.6
Ezports of GNFS                            27.919           -3.6         9.9        17.0        6.9        11.6              8.2
} porte of alFS                            28,661            8.6        -7.7         7.6        3.2         9.1              8.2
Cross natLonal svLngs                      19.156            3.7       -17.7         3.0        9.0        21.0              7.4
Prices
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                                    0.796       1.0         1.158      1.241       1.274          157.7
Emchbage rate (M51 -    )                                 484.0       607.6       681.0      731.1       775.75
Export price index C1980 - 100)                             95.6       100.0       103.0       99.2        96.4            142.7
Import price Index (1980 - 100)                             78.4       100.0       104.0       98.7        94.4            141.0
Teram of trade index (1980 - 100)                          115.3       100.0        97.9      102.2       103.1            101.2
Share of CDa ac mwrket prices (C)                      Awerage samal Increase (Z)
(at current prices ) /b                             (at constant 1972 prices)
1960    'Os    1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        8.6       9.8       8.2      7.0        7.5
Agriculture                       36.7   26.9    24.5   16.5    13.6    11.3           4.3       4.9      -1.2      7.3        3.5
Industry                          20.1   29.5    33.8   41.3    34.4   38.5           17.4      15.3      13.5      8.5       10.0
Services                          43.2   43.6    41.7   4Z.3   42.8   40.9             8.1       7.7       7.6      6.7        6.5
ConsUmpCton                       85.3   83.0      80.1   76.4    72.7    69.6         6.7       7.8       7.1      5.7        6.8
Gross invws    t                  11.0    26.9     29.0   30.2   28.8   30.8          23.6      11.2      14.6      6.0        8.9
Imports of CNFS                    3.4    14.3     27.6   35.7    38.6    41.7        29.3      25.4      16.1      9.8        8.5
Exports of CNFS                   12.8   24.1      36.3   42.7   40.1    42.2         20.2      15.8      17.0      6.8        8.3
Cross national savtiHg             8.0    19.5    20.6   21.7    26.5    29.8         17.2      14.6       9.0     12.7        9.5
AS X OF CDP                       Labor Force In 1983        MIllions     (Z)
'960      1970      1975      1980      1984
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenes                      18.5      17.8      17.9      19.9      19.4      AgricuLture                   4.3      28.6
Current expendltures                 14.3      13.1      15.4      15.6      15.9      Industry                      4.2      27.7
Current surplus                       4.2       4.7       2.5       4.3       3.5      Services                      6.0      39.6
Copital expenditure                   3.4       6.4       6.4       5.9       5.5     UbemploYed                     0.6       4.1
Foreign financing                      -        1.0       1.3       1.0       0.5
Total Labor Force       15.1     100.0
1960-70        1970-75        1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OTE  MDWICA0S
Annual CGP growth rate (Z)                                          8.7           9.0            7.9            7.0            7.5
Annual GNP per caplta growth rate (Z)                               5.9           6.9            5.2            5.5            5.9
Annual energy consumptIon growth rate (Z)                          14.2           9.6            8.7            5.7            5.4
ICON                                                                1.9           2.7            5.4            4.2            4.0
NargLnal savings rate                                               0.3           0.3            0.3            0.3            0.35
Ixport elasticity                                                   2.2           1.6            2.0            1.2            1.11
/a  Preliminary.                                                                                                                 I
East Asia and Pacific Ragoial Office
Deceaber 1984



-23 -
ANNEX I
Populatioe      39.951   (Cdd-1953 thousands)                                                        EMS of 5
GMP per capita: US51,G84 (1963)
MOM  - BALANC or PAVZU!S, MTIEMAL CAPITAL AND DES?
(    Khlons U55 at current prices)
Actual                                 Prolec-ted
Indicator                            1970    1975     1978     1979    19U0    1981    1982   1983           190
UAtANCK OF PAWS0M
Exports of goods  an  servies     1.379   5.909   17,124   19.52   22.587   V7552  28,5D0  30,389   82.502
Of ublch: Nmrcheadise f.o.b.      882   5.028   12,678   14,694   17,220  20,938  20,961  23,204   70,568
Imports of goods and ser-iem      2.180   7.992   18,651   24.115  28,360  32,476  31,500   32,588    84.033
Of which: Iercheadise f.o.b.    1.804   6,671   14,436   19,266   21,604  24,337  23,361  24.904   70,737
Net tranofers                       178    225       467      439      449      506      473      592       600
Curreat Account Balance            -623 -1 858  -1 060  -6153  -5 325  -4,418  -2 546  -1 607              -930
*                (I of GNF)                        (7aii5  ( - 9.Z)   (    - 2.2)   ( - 7.1)  (-S.3)   ( - 7.4)   (-3.9) -?7]7)    (-1.0C)
Dlret ive    t                       66      53       61       17       -5       59      160   101.4        483
MIX toan (net)                      242   1.252   2,216   2.945    2,096   4,267   2,051   1.332    3,298
Officlia                          147    486       663      862      689    1.337      83O      861     1,084
Private                            95    765    1,552    2.093   1,408    2,929    1,171        471     2.214
Other capital (Incl. errom a        372    929    -510    2.090    3.770        367      684    -975        322
odissions)
Change in r.aerva (gross)           -57   -376    -707    -898    -536    -275           -98      -74   -3.174
International reserves (tr o)       606   2.012    5.405    6.303    6.839    7.114    7.212 6.910    21.167
Reserves as mths Imports            3.3     3.0      3.5      3.1      2.9      2.6      2.7      2.1       3.0
EKVfftAL CAPITAL AND DOT'
Gtons Dlsb2nemnts
Offi-cia grants                     -       -        -        -        -        -       50        -
ncessioa lo                       123    173       184      193      138      159      148   203.3          -
DAC                             122      108     167      173      121      158      168   203.3        200
OPEC                              -       -        13      20       17        1                 - -
IDA                               1      14        3        -        -        -        -       _         _
Other                             -       1        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Noncoocessional                   317  1,511    3,729   4 ,44 3.655  4,779    3.937   3.230             S,661
Official export credits          18    151       219      341      606      84       532      500       965
1320                              7     187      321      426      254      306      438      386       780
other  ultilate-al                5      87       89       91       90      104      116      188       223
Private - source (residual)     287   1.083    3,101    3,591    2.705    3.525    2.851   2.158      3.692
MLdiuin- and Iong-Tern Debt
Debt outstansdig & disbursed     1,797   5.540   11,937   14.553  16,274  19,964  22.006  28,170    46,319
Offlial - source                613   2.657    5.016    5,667   6.498    7,702   8.572          -    15,832
Private  - source              1.185   2,883    6,921    8,886   9.776   12.263   13.433        -   30.487
'ndisbu-sed debt                  902   1,679    6,294    5.337    7.072    5.996    5.324   4.295      6.370
Debt Service on MIT Loans
Total service payments            268    667    1.825    2.578   2,762  35597   4.199   46,570          8,509
Interest                         70    283       657      890    1.310    1.777   2.164   2,187       3,295
Payments as -  exporcs           19.4    11.3     10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5    15.4           11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding And disbursed      -  2.409    3,575    6.279   10.047   13.658   14.100   11,940    13.030
Interest payments                   -       -      236      377      907    1,810    1,528    1,169     1,303
Interest as : exports               -       -      1.4      1.9      6.0      6.7      5.3      3.9       1.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (t)
--                   Official                             4.5     7.9      7.4      7.6      7.5      8.4      8.0    10.9      10.9
Private                             7.1     9.3      9.7     11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7    11.7          11.7
Average maturity on New Loana (year)
Official                            28.0   19.3      19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5    16.4          16.4
Private                            10.9     5.7     10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1         8.1    11.8       11.8
As Z of debt outstanding
at end of oont recent
year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturitie  due within 5 years                                    53.4
Maturities Jue withLn 10 yars                                    73.1
Interest screeture of debt outstanding                              8.7
Interest due wtthin first year
/a Preltimnary
Isat Asia amd ycific Regional Office
Drec ber 1984



AIR EII
-24-                                         Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRZ RIPURLIC OP XOREA la
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                                               AMout tS million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                 (lees cancellations)
Number       Year          Borrower               Purpose                    Sank      TV      TPA   lndisbursed
Forty-six loans and eight credits fully disbursed                          2,764.44  40.00   115.58
1364         1977     ADC                  Irrigation                         95.0                           0.26
1503         1978     ADC                  Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                           4.00
1666         1979     ISUACO               Chungu Multipurpose               125.0                           4.38
1676         1979     Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology              29.0                           8.35
1733         1979     Republic of Xorea   Second  wzangju Regional            65.0                           1.54
1774         1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                        30.0                          20.20
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co. Power                               111.0                           8.26
1800         1980     Republic of Korea   Education V                        100.0                           2.55
1836         1980     Republic of Korea   Railway VII                         94.0                           1.50
1851         1980     AFDC                 Agricolture II                     50.0                           1.23
1932         1981     XLTCB VIII           Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                           2.01
1933         1981     RDB IV               Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                           0.16
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Vrban Land & Housing           75.3                          13.07
2004         1871     SNv IV               Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                           3.37
2072         1982     Republic of Korea  water Supply                         90.0                          25.75
2111         1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural Marketing              31.3                           2.04
2112         1982    KIDC                  Technology Development             50.0                          11.53
2144         1982     CNB                  DFC                                30.0                           8.60
2215         1982     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                  70.0                          61.99
2216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. trban Land and Rousing        100.0                          50.44
2228         1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads        125.0                          50.77
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution       122.0                         100.00
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                 255.0                          1U .23
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                 7R.5                          59.51
2388         1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Regional Development         60.0                          59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                     230.0                         202.12
2427         1984     Republic of Korea   FAucation Sector                   100.0                          98.46
2473         1984     RTDC                 Second Technology Development      50.0                          46.00
2491         1985     Republlc of Rorea   Water Supply                        95.0                          95.00
Total                                                        5,311.54   40.00   115.58      1.087.17
of which has been repaid                                     822.20    3.69      7.33
Total now outstanding                                        4,U89.34   36.32   108.25
Amount sold                   8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                 -       -         -
Total now held by Rank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                             4,489.34   36.32   108.25
Total undisbursed                                            1,087.17     -         -       1,1R7.17
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



ANNEX II
-25 -                                Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                       Amount (S million)
Year        Obligor            Itpes of Business            Loan F!uitsz Total
1968     KLB (RDFC)             Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969     Ronan Silk Co.         Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0la
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -      0.7    0.7
1974     KLR (KDFC)             Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Tevelopment    -      0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products           16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
rxnmpany, Ltd.       Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae Tn Dae nevelop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        rapital Market Development   -       0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                          5.0    n.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                          15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KLR (KDFC)             Development Financing        17.8     -    17.R
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products           1n.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products             -     0.2    0.2
1977     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing          -     0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                 -     0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing          -      1.1    1.1
1979     C,old Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -     1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                        -     0.2    0.2
1979    rCold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             -     5.3    5.3
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                 -     0.6    n.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance rorp.                                       -     2.3    2.3
198n     KLB (RDFC)             Develoument Financing          -     2.2    2.2
1981     Talhan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
1982     KIFC                   Capital Market                 -     0.6    n.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
z                           Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development           -     0.6    0.6
1983     KDIC                   Money & Capital Market         -     0.9    n,
1984     Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material        4.3    3.9    8.2
1985     Korea Fund             Money & Capital Market         -      9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                             110.7   47.7  158.4
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                              101.6   18.6  120.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                    9.1   29.1   38.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                           0.1    n.1
/a Cancelled at the recuest of the Company.



AM=EX III
- 26 -
LOORE&
FOUR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project                     :    2 years
(b)  Project preparation agency              :    MACF
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                    :    February, 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                 :    June, 1984
(e)  Date of completion of.
negociations                            :    April 19, 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness           :    September 1, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Condition
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Government would:
Ci) carry out a comprehensive review of MACF's financial condition by
December 31, 1986 and propose measuresto improve RACF's financial
performance (para. 42);
NACF would:
Ci   implement the measures resulting from the Government's comprehensive
review in order to improve its financial performance (para. 42).
(ii)  maintain an interest rate spread of 3% over the weighted average
cost of project loan funds (para. 45); and



_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ /  S  l           127                      u r                       u rIB R       D    1 2 3 5 1 R 3
"IL-F-USSR /                               32                       S                         12W
DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBLI                     I C
CHINA                                             OF KOREA
|a,~ Ye elow                                                                                             Sea
4NPg A>>. -e sj ; *> AN
- ~      ~         ~         ,                                              REPUBLI OFKOE
Se.~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~~                                   L                      _*-  -~Y  -InthrGAN   WEO    \.   - D-e
E.r~  Pacif. c
Ocean                   $  ;,                  *
a,---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
1 2S3'                      ?                         I ? 7 '                   t ? =                     ' 7 t 
-a-cA
Yellow Sea
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
-- P- nswI mods
N.                                          Rud~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ay.as undEr CosruCtn.Cm 3w
4-A.,po.wIi
-                                       .k. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ports
-- Pm'.n.cial boundan..s
---IntemfOiOnalI baLmdar..s
j    JJU                               _      __       __        __        __






