Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4505 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Other social services 
(20%);Banking (15%);Capital markets (15%) 
Project ID 
P115177 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 27, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 6, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 21, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The operation supports the poverty reduction efforts of the Government of Panama in the context of the 
current global financial crisis and economic slowdown.  Specifically, it supports policy measures, 
which: (a) mitigate the impact of economic shocks on the poor through improved targeting and coverage 
of social sector programs, and (b) help reduce the risk of an economic and financial crisis through 
enhanced banking sector risk management and strengthened banking regulation and supervision.  
Maintenance of financial sector stability is a necessary condition to poverty reduction efforts as it is 
fundamental to sustained growth.  Moreover, the costs of instability tend to be borne disproportionately 
by the poor. The 
Protecting the Poor under Global Uncertainty 
DPL also assists Panama by providing 
access to long-term financing to support priority spending during the global financial crisis.  
 
Originally envisaged in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY10, the preparation of this DPL 
has been accelerated to FY09 owing to the deteriorating global economic environment and the need to 
protect the poor.  Due to new circumstances since the CPS was discussed by the Board on October 30, 
2007, the Government has requested that the Bank accelerate the preparation of this DPL in order to 
have it ready by the time that a new administration takes over on 1 July 2009.  The government is 
responding to the new challenges with policy actions to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis 
on the poor.  The impacts of the deteriorating external environment, the government response, and 
proposed World Bank support are described in the following sections.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The DPL operation supports progress towards medium-term program outcomes related to three CPS 
objectives: (1) reducing poverty, especially among the rural poor and indigenous groups through 
targeted social interventions; (2) improving health and nutrition outcomes through the expanded supply 
of basic public services, and (3) promoting broad-based economic growth by means of supporting 
financial sector stability.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
The 
Protecting the Poor Under Global Uncertainty
 DPL is a single-tranche, non-programmatic 
operation.   The primary deve
lopment objective of the DPL is to support government’s efforts to protect 
the poor and buttress the financial system in the context of the current global financial crisis and 
economic slowdown.  The government has taken actions to improve targeting and coverage of social 
sector programs, including health and nutrition, as well as measures to ensure that spending in these 
areas are prioritized in the budget.  The proposed operation also supports selective and critical actions in 
maintaining economic and financial stability.  Government actions in this area contribute to continued 
macroeconomic stability, which is a foundation for sustained economic growth and poverty reduction.  
Areas supported by the DPL form an integral part of the Government’s economic and social 
development plan and the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Specific actions supported by this DPL are not likely to have significant effects on the environment, 
forests, or other natural resources.  In terms of the environmental impact of expanding health coverage, 
the environmental assessment prepared for the 
Panama Social Protection Project
 determined that the 
legal framework for management of healthcare waste (an environmental concern) is appropriate and 
consistent with international guidelines.  The government is taking measures to reduce the risk of 
environmental impact due to increased demand and supply of basic and preventive health care services.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Lars Christian Moller 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-9027 
Fax: (202) 522 2119 
Email: 
lmoller@worldbank.org
Or 
 
Contact: David Michael Gould 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9621 
Fax: (202) 614-1236 
Email: 
dgould@worldbank.org
