Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17991-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES FOR PEACE PROJECT
June 5, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 1244.00 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANTD ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEUDES         Corporation of Democratic Entities for Development (Corporacion
Unidades Democraticas para el Desarrollo, Nongovernmental Organization)
CMU            Country Management Unit
CJAC           Coordinating Committee of Communal Action Boards (Comite
Coordinadora de las Juntas de Acci6n Comunal)
CPA            County Presidents' Assembly (Asamblea de Presidentes de Veredas)
CIMRC          Interministerial Committee for Peasant Enterprise Zones
DNP            National Department of Planning (Departmento Nacional de Planeaci6n)
GOC            Government of Colombia
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank")
IDB            Interamerican Development Bank
IICA           Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
INCORA         Colombian Land Reform Institute (Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma
Agraria)
LCSES          Latin America and the Caribbean Environmental and Socially Sustainable
Development Unit
MOE            Ministry of Environment
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
PEZ            Peasant Enterprise Zone (Zona de Reserva Campesina)
PLANTE         Program for Substitution of Illicit Crops, EDB
PMG            Project Management Group
SA             Special Account
SINCHI         Amazonian Institute for Scientific Investigations
SOE            Statement of Expenses
TG             Technical Group (Grupo Tcnico)
TOR            Terms of Reference
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki, LCRVP
Country Director: Andres Solimano, LCC4C
Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser, LCSES
Sector Leader: Jonathan Parker, LCSES
Task Team Leader: William Partridge, LCSES
Task Manager: Martien van Nieuwkoop, LCSES
COLOMBIA



PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES FOR PEACE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicator ....................................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .............................................2
2. Main Sector issues and government strategy ....................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .....................3
C. Project Description Summary ........................................................5
1. Project components ....................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............                               .............6
3. Benefits and target population ....................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................7
D. Project Rationale ........................................................                                                   10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................. 10
2. Major related projects by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......... 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................................... 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................... 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................... 13
E. Summary Project Analyses                                           ................................... 13
1. Economic ...................................................                                                     13
2. Financial ...................................................                                                     13
3. Technical ...................................................                                                     14
4. Institutional ...................................................                                                14
5. Social .....................                                                                                      14
6. Environmental assessment .....................                                                                   14
7. Participatory approach .....................                                                                     14
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................... 15
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                                        15
2. Critical risks ...........................                                                                       15
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................                                                       16



G. Main Loan Conditions                            ........................ 16
1. Effectiveness conditions ...................                        16
2. Other ...................                                           17
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                      18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                     18
Annexes
Annex la              Program Design Summary.                                 l9
Annex lb.             Project Design Summary .21
Annex 2.              Project Description .24
Annex 3.              Estimated Project Costs ...............                 25
Annex 4.              Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .26
Table A.              Project Costs by Procurement Methods and Prior Review 26
Table B.              Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .28
Table C.              Allocation of Loan Proceeds .29
Annex 5.              Project Processing Budget and Schedule .32
Annex 6.              Documents in the Project File .33
Annex 7.              Statements of Loans and Credits .35
Annex 8.               Colombia at a Glance .37
Annex 9.              Project Preparation Plan .39
Annex 10.             Draft Project Implementation Plan .42
Annex 11.             Quality Assurance Plan .45
Annex 12.             Environmental Assessment Summary .47
Annex 13.             Social Analysis Summary .50
Map.                  IBRD 29518 .56



Colombia
Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean
LCC4C
LCSES
Date: June 5, 1998                                     _
Country Director: Andres Solimano                        Task Team Leader: William Partridge
Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser                      Task Manager: Martien van Nieuwkoop
Project ID: CO-PE-53243   I Sector: Social Development   Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: LUI (Learning & Innovation Loan)     Program of Targeted Intervention:    [X]  Yes   [] No
Project Financing Data                  [X] Loan         [] Credit        [] Guarantee        [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount US$ 5 million
Proposed termns:                          [I]   Multicurrency       [X] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 3            []   Standard Variable   [X] Fixed             []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 9
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (USSm): 6.6
Source                                                         Local               Foreign             Total
Government of Colombia                                          1.50                                   1.50
IBRD                                                            4.75                 0.25              5.00
Total        6.35                 0.25               6.60
Borrower: Ministry of Finance, Government of Colombia
Guarantor: Ministry of Finance, Government of Colombia
Responsible agency(ies): Office of the President and Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
EstiP ated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M): a     1998          1999      2000       2001
Annual     0.5         0.8          1.7       2.0
Cumulative     0.5         1.3         3.0        5.0
IProject implementation period: 3.0 years  Expected effectiveness date: 6/01/98  Expected closing date: 12/3 1/01



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project develops a replicable methodology for the establishment and operation of a Peasant Enterprise Zone
(Zona de Reserva Campesina) for areas of colonization affected by violence and illicit activities and of prototype
actions to protect rainforest reserves and nearby indigenous territories. It also achieves a proposal for a national
program ready for government consideration. The project will develop the "model" from experience in three
cases, one in the department of Caqueta, a second in the department of Guaviare and a third zone to be identified,
where local communities, nongovernmental and government organizations have already agreed to initiate Peasant
Enterprise Zones. The project will be considered successful when stakeholders in the community agree that they
are maintaining their management capabilities, are regularly planning and setting their development priorities, are
gaining access to regular support from existing state, NGO and private sector programs, and are enjoying a
greater level of security in their lives. It would also be considered a success when authorities and third parties
agree that economic, fiscal and environmental issues are being regularly addressed and are prepared to scale the
experience up to other regions. Precise baseline objectives and indicators will be included in zone-specific
operational manuals acceptable to the Bank.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107 CO   Date of latest CAS discussion: October 1997
Social development is the first item on Colombia's development agenda. Reduction of poverty and promotion of
peace are tvwin objectives of that agenda reflected in the Bank's CAS. Halting deforestation on the agricultural
frontier is a major element of the environmental strategy outlined in the CAS. The CAS explicitly calls for new
operations that include specific activities to reinforce in a cross-sectoral manner approaches to peace and civil
coexistence in Colombia. Yet proven practices for achieving these objectives are not currently available to COG
and no national program can be developed without them. The project will develop such practices and contribute
to formulation of a broader program for achieving social development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In the last few decades, millions of people have fled the interior of Colombia to settle on the agricultural frontier
of the amazonian and orinocan river basins where they have cleared land for farming (in the Departments of
Aurauca, Casanare, Vichada, Meta, Guainia, Guaviare, Caqueta, Vaupes, Putumayo and Amazonas). At the
outset, such colonists survive through subsistence cropping, selling timber cleared from their plots and fattening
cattle for patrons in small towns that spring up just in back of the frontier. But such small-holder colonization has
proven unsListainable.
Such colonization is unsustainable for several reasons. Colonists are typically followed by investors seeking to
acquire such newly cleared land, to consolidate it into large cattle ranches. Lacking land titles, the colonists are
unable to defend their de facto occupancy. The better soils, which in the tropical and subtropical lowlands of
Colombia are scarce, are thereby quickly alienated from cropping and devoted to extensive cattle ranching. The
colonist also lacks the economic power to attract basic social and economic development services of the state
and/or investment by the private sector, making them even more vulnerable to displacement. The result is a
"movihg" firontier economy, inexorably replicating poverty and displacing colonists toward further destruction of
forest and water resources.



In recent years, illicit crops, which initially promised economic gains for colonists, have instead attracted a deadly
combination of repressive eradication campaigns and extortionist "protection" rackets operated by anned political
factions in frontier regions. Throughout the frontier areas of Colombia, farmers find themselves caught in a
cross-fire between armed groups, resulting in millions of people being displaced from their home villages.
Statistics indicate that by far the most violent mumicipios in the country are rural; among all rural areas, those on
the "moving" frontier are affected most by violence. It is estimated that in Colombia there are over I million
persons displaced by armed combatants. Some seek refuge in towns, while others flee to the forest and become
colonists.
The 1991 constitution establishes the precept that the state is to provide conditions for improving incomes and
quality of life for the rural landless poor. Early initiatives in this regard have included the Environment Law
(Ley 99 de 1993), which provides for protection of forest reserves and indigenous communities as well as the
participation of communities in colonization or agricultural frontier areas in achieving these goals. The Bank has,
since mid-1994, been supporting these efforts through the Colombia Natural Resources Management Project (Ln-
3692CL), involving communities in the processes of land title regularization and the establishment of indigenous
reserves but with only modest and recent success.
The GOC also established in 1994 the policy and legal framework to improve incomes and quality of life of the
rural poor in its Agrarian Reform Law (Ley 160 de 1994). Article One of that law establishes its objectives as:
promoting peace, social justice and participatory democracy for rural populations; preventing inequitable
concentration of lands; helping the landless poor gain access to land through the market and subsidized and direct
credit; generating employment and raising living standards of the rural poor; promoting sustainable utilization of
land through rational distribution; increasing agricultural productivity and commercialization; promoting strong
rural social organization; improving opportunities for rural women, indigenous groups and black communities.
The Agrarian Reform Law foresaw two main instruments for achieving these goals, a land-market based
redistribution program where land markets exist and the creation of Peasant Enterprise Zones in colonization
areas where land markets do not exist. Chapter 13 (Colonization, Peasant Reserves and Development;
Colonizaci6nes, Zonas de Reserva Campesinay Desarrollo Empresarial ) of the Agrarian Reform Law explicitly
establishes Peasant Enterprise Zones as the principal instrument of the GOC to regularize colonization areas with
the aim to achieve: (i) better access of landless poor to land, services and development opportunities; (ii)
effective participation of rural communities in planning and implementation of development efforts; and (iii)
more rational natural resources management at the agricultural frontier. By doing so, Peasant Enterprise Zones
contribute to peace consolidation, reducing incentives for violence and fostering social justice and democratic
participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The issue to be addressed in this project is to operationalize the concept of the Peasant Enterprise Zone. Progress
in implementing the Peasant Enterprise Zones was initially hampered by the absence of an institutional and
regulatory framework stipulating the procedures and norms for executing Chapter 13. In 1996, peasant
organizations from the amazonian and orinocan river basins, stimulated by the combination of rural violence and
aerial spraying of herbicides on their crops -- both licit and illicit -- mobilized marches on the capital to seek
relief. 'the GOC responded by promising prompt implementation of the law to create Peasant Enterprise Zones,
issuing Decree 1777 (Decreto No. 1777 de Octubre I de 1996) which established the institutional responsibility
and regulatory framework, including the preferential and priority treatment to be given to Peasant Enterprise
Zones, necessary for implementing the law in frontier areas affected by violence and illicit activity. The
colonists in turn responded by submitting proposals for the creation of several zones in the Departments of
Omqviare, Putumayo, Caqueta and Bolivar, two of which were approved by GOC in December 1997 (Caqueta and
Guvi.Aarc).



4
Further progress is now slowed by the lack of a replicable model, based on practical experience, for
operationalizing the provisions of the law and the decree on the ground. Apart from issuance of land titles,
proven methodologies for formulating sustainable development alternatives, securing development investment
resources, providing for technical assistance to commercialize production, establishing rational natural resources
management systems, and for ensuring the farmers themselves participate directly in the design and
implementation of the policy do not as yet exist.
Given the political situation and the tradition of centrally-directed development activities, the GOC could have
financed a number of Peasant Enterprise Zones focusing largely on land distribution and title regularization
through INCORA (indeed, INCORA has identified some 14 possible Peasant Enterprise Zones so far). But the
risks associated with this single-focused, top-down approach were recognized. Instead, the borrower has adopted
a "learning and innovation" approach to formulating such a model, based on informed participation of the
landless poor in three pilot cases in designing solutions to the foregoing problems. The strategy entails learning
on the part of GOC institutions by empowering colonists to join in making strategic choices that identify
development priorities for the zone, formulate sustainable development plans, secure adequate finance from
institutional programs as well as the private sector, and promote local community participation in the
implementation, management and evaluation of development outcomes.



C: Project Description Summary
1: Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                       Category      Cost.    % of    Bank-    % of
Incl.    Total    finan    Bank-
Contin-             cing      finan
gencies           (US$M)   cing
(IJS$M)   ____    ___    __
A. Project Management.                          consulting     0.65       10       0.65      100
Under this component a Project Management Unit   services,
(PMG) will be set-up in IICA, which will be      equipment,
responsible for overall project coordination,    incremental
monitoring and administration. The project would   operating
finance technical assistance, equipment and      costs
incremental operating costs. Implementation of this
component would enable GOC and other
stakeholders to systematically learn from the
experiences in the various Peasant Enterprise Zones.
B. Peasant Enterprise Zone Development,         consulting     5.30       80       3.70      70
The component would include: (i) participatory   services
planning and implementation of land titling efforts,  and
agricultural production activities and environmental  training,
protection initiatives; and (ii) local capacity building  incremental
for community and economic development. In       operating
addition, a social and evironmental assessment   costs,
would be carried out in each PEZ. Under this     equipment,
component, TGs would be established in up to three  pilot zones
PEZs. The project would finance technical        subprojects
assistance, training, equipment, incremental
operating costs and grants for small pilot zones
subprojects' to facilitate "learning-by-doing".
Implementation of this component would strengthen
local capacity for selfmanagement regarding
planning and implementation of income and
employment generating opportunities in a
sustainable manner.
C. Evaluation and Strategic Design of Follow-on    consulting  0.65       10      0.65       100
Actions.                                        services
Under this component an end-of-project
development impact assessment and strategic design
study would be carried out. Implementation of this
component would enable GOC to apply the concept
of peasant enterprise zones on a wider scale based
on sound economic, social, and environmental
criteria.
Total    6.60      100       5.0       75
To be financed on a demand-driven basis, including, among other: (i) soil and pasture improvements; (ii) community forestry; (iii)
watershed management and micro-irrigation; (iv) spot improvement of rural roads; (v) marketing; (vi) post-harvest community
infrastructure; and (vii) TA for agriculture, livestock and forestry. Detailed sub-project eligibility criteria would be included in zone-
specific operational manuals acceptable to the Bank.



6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key institutional reform supported by the project is the shift to promoting direct participation of the colonists
in establishing and implementing development investment activities in their own communities. Hitherto, such
investment in social and economic infrastructure and economic development assistance was centrally directed.
The recent decentralization policy of GOC has not been fully implemented. The model being tested in three cases
supports local community organizations in strengthening their capacity for accessing technical, financial and
manageriall resources provided (on paper) under the agrarian reform legal and policy framework. The project also
contributes a crucial test of a mechanism for reducing incentives for conflict and violence, and, thereby,
represents a potential element of the peace process in Colombia.
3. Benefits and target population
Ultimately the beneficiaries of Peasant Enterprise Zones are landless, low-income peasant families displaced by
violence from their places of origin who migrated to the agricultural frontier and colonized forest reserves. The
beneficiaries who now lack land titles, are trapped in non-sustainable agricultural practices, threatened by armed
combatants engaged in illegal activities and marginalized from the market, government services and development
opportunities. Eligible families and communities would be identified by local community-based entities with
both legal and defacto responsibility for development programs spanning the participating counties that make up
the Peasant Enterprise Zone. An early estimate, to be confirmed, of the benefits accruing to a medium-term
program would be up to 250,000 families (between 1.5 and 2 million persons) occupying about 10% of
Colombia's cultivable land.
In the case of the present project, in 1996 local Coordinating Committees of Community Action Boards (Comitd
Coordinador de las Juntas de Acci6n Comunal, CJAC) in the Departments of Caqueta and Guaviare formally
petitioned the GOC to create Peasant Enterprise Zones. Throughout 1996, with the assistance of
nongovernmental organizations, they each developed agreements among participating communities and
formulated proposed Sustainable Development Plans as required by the Law 160. These plans were submitted to
Municipal Rural Development Councils which conducted local public hearings involving all stakeholders (local
communities, nongovernmental organizations, national institutions).
In the Department of Caqueta the proposed plan was approved by the Municipal Rural Development Council on
28 November 1997 and the public hearing was held on 29 November 1997 in the Municipality of San Vicente de
Caguan, resulting in INCORA Resolution Number 00055 of 18 December 1997 legally constituting and
delimiting the Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato y Valle de Balsillas, composed of 88,000 hectares and
1,000 families (6,500 people). In the Department of Guaviare the proposed plan was approved by the Municipal
Development Councils and the public hearing was held on 27 September 1997 in the Municipality of San Jos6 de
Guaviare, r esulting in INCORA Resolution Number 00054 of 18 December 1997 legally constituting and
delimiting the Peasant Enterprise Zone of Guaviare composed of 400,000 ha and 16,000 families (100,000
people). An additional Peasant enterprise zone will be identified and added during the life of the project, bringing
to three the number of pilots contributing to the learning process.
The immediate benefits of the pilot zones will be the strengthening of local social capital, coordination of efforts
to mobilize investment resources, building stronger conflict resolution processes, increased capacity of local
organizations to manage human, financial and technical resources and inititation of processes of sustainable
production. Over the medium term, the processes of sustainable production should yield improved commercial
productivity, management of forests, national parks and indigenous reserves, opportunities for employment of
women and youth, and relief from violence associated with insecure tenure, inequality, illicit crops and exclusion
from the services of the state. Evidence that the methodology was successful would be the emergence of some of
these benefits (details regarding documenting these to be agreed during the project launch workshop).



7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management
Pilot Zone Level:   The project will be implemented at the pilot zone level by legally constituted
Coordinating Committees of Communal Action Boards (CJAC) formed in each zone. A CJAC is composed of
members of the Assembly of Communal Action Board Presidents (Asemblea de Presidentes de Juntas de Accion
Comw7al de Veredas) elected by the Assembly members and is the executive arm of the Assembly. The
Assembly is composed of the Presidents of local Comunal Action Boards (Junta de Acci6n Comunal), which
represents the interests of the counties (Veredas) in each PEZ. A CJAC usually covers part of the jurisdiction of a
municipality. Since each municipality, by Law, can only have one CJAC, counties could alternatively represent
themselves through a Comite de Colonos in those municipalities where a CJAC already exists. The equivalent of
the Assembly in this case would be a Grupo de Presidentes de Comites de Colonos. The Coordinating
Committee in that case would be composed of elected members of the Presidentes of a Grupo de Comites de
Colonos.
The CJAC will design and manage proposed activities at the local level, contracting and supervising the delivery
of services. works and goods in their PEZ. The CJAC will be supported by a Technical Group (TG) consisting of
a technical manager and a financial expert, both financed by the Project and appointed by the PMG, a
representative of INCORA and three members appointed from the Assembly of Communal Action Board
Presidents. TG specialists will be resident in the project area throughout the project period to work alongside the
CJAC in taking investment decisions together with implementation supervision activities, including training
CJAC counterparts in accounting, procurement, management and administrative skills. Approval of subprojects
in amounts less than US$ 30,000 can be authorized by the TG. Subprojects above this ceiling will be cleared by
the PMG. CJACs will contract nongovernmental organizations and the private sector and enter into agreements
with public sector institutions for the delivery of services, goods and works needed for the project and
subprojects. A pilot zone operations manual will be finalized for each zone within two months of effectiveness.
It would cover all of the relationships between the PMG (at IICA) and the concerned CJAC and TG in managing
each subproiect, (including respective duties, responsibilities, procedures for administration of funds -- including
opening a local operating account -- and implementation of activities within the PEZ.
Project Level:  The GOC through the Office of the President will contract IICA to manage the implementation
of the project. and to administer project funds. IICA will appoint a Project Management Group (PMG) for this
purpose which will guide implementation of the project, The PMG will be headed by a Director, Peasant
Enterprise Zone Project acceptable to GOC and the Bank. To facilitate coordination with INCORA's land titling
efforts in the PEZs, its National Coordinator for PEZs will participate in the PMG as a liasion officer. The PMG
will, through the TG working in the field, verify that all decisions of the CJAC are transparent and participatory
and support implementation of those decisions by processing necessary documentation to ensure efficient and
effective contracting and payment of contracts, in accord with Bank policies concerning procurement and use of
consultant services. The PMG will authorize all expenditures proposed by the CJACs greater than US$ 30,000
and through IICA, secure efficient and effective contracting and payments of contracts, in accord with Bank
policies concerning procurement and use of consultant services. As part of its obligations, IICA would agree to
begin financing of subprojects in a PEZ only after an acceptable project operating manual has been agreed.
National Level: To ensure overall coordination of support to Peasant Enterprise Zones from among various
national agencies, an Interinstitutional Committee for Peasant Enterprise Zones (Comite Interinstitucionalpara
Reservas Campesinas) has been established by the GOC (in 1996). This national committee is composed of the
Director General of the National Planning Department, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Environment, and the
Director General of the Colombian Land Reform Institute (INCORA) and is chaired by the General Manager of
Plan Sur from the Office of the President. The General Manager of Plan Sur has provided leadership for the
design and implementation of the program to date. The Interinstitutional Committee is responsible for the overall
coordination of policies related to implementation of the PEZs at the national level. It would meet periodically to
assure adequate dissemination of information relevant to further scaling up of the pilot projects. During



8
Technical Discussions (held in Bogota, 1-3 April, 1998), it was agreed that the Interinstitutional Committee
would include a representative of each of the PEZs and one representative of the national peasant organizations.
Implementation Arrangements
The outline of the project operational manual was agreed during Technical Discussions. It will include, inter alia,
a description of: (i) administration arrangements and relationships; (ii) financial management arrangements and
resource flows (including auditing requirements); (iii) procurement procedures, including a detailed description of
division of responsibilities between CJAC, TG and PMG; (iv) a procurement plan; (v) standard TORs for
consultants to be hired in the PMG and TGs; (vi) TORs of zone specific EAs and SAs; (vii) sample letters of
invitation, procedures for evaluation and sample contracts for consulting services; and (viii) monitoring,
evaluation and reporting requirements. Approval of the project operational manual is a condition of Loan
Effectiveness.
An Indicative Operating Plan is presented in Annex 10. Approval of a Plan outlining the activities to be
implemented during the remainder of the calendar year -1998 is a condition of Loan Effectiveness. Thereafter, the
PMG would present to the Bank for review and approval draft annual operating plans and budgets not later than
November 15 of each year.
Approval of zone specific operational manuals acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for
the financing of subprojects in the PEZs. The manual would include: (i) precise baseline objectives and specific
indicators of project implementation and impact; (ii) specification of eligibility, cost sharing, definition of priority
areas, duration and evaluation criteria, including environmental clearances, of pilot zones subprojects to be
financed under the project; (ii) sample agreement between CJACs, IICA and sponsoring agencies specifying the
fimancing, implementation and administration arrangements of pilot zones subprojects. A first year
implementation plan and budget would be attached to the zone specific operational manual.
Monitoring, evaluation and reporting
Monitoring of the project inputs and implementation progress would be the responsibility of IICA, as part of its
budget management and reporting system (this system has performed well within other Bank-financed projects).
It would report quarterly, based on reports from the pilot areas. Project outputs would be monitored as part of
this process, and would be evaluated (with inputs) in bi-annual implementation workshops.
To maximize learning on the part of all participants, the PMG will be responsible to carry-out concurrent
evaluations of the achievement of results, to provide feedback to the bi-annual implementation workshops. Broad
qualitative (efficacy of capacity building, effectiveness of conflict resolution mechanisms, etc.) and quantitative
(numbers of inputs, participants, etc.) indicators for the entire project were agreed during Technical Discussions
and will be incorporated into a supplementary letter to the Loan Agreement. Zone-specific versions of these
indicators will be formulated in launch workshops to be held in the first two months of project effectiveness and
incorporated into each pilot zone operations manual. The bi-annual workshops will provide an opportunity to
draw conclusions from experience and modify practices as required. The workshops would include members of
the PMG staff, CJAC-TG staff, local government and NGO leaders collaborating in the project and will be open
to the ,communities benefiting. Monitoring reports by IICA will reflect the findings and conclusions of these
workshops.
During Technical Discusssions it was agreed that IICA would carry out an ex-post annual physical performance
review of subproject implementation, through an independent evaluator. The evaluator would assess, on a sample
basis, the success of pilot zones subprojects financed by the project, in terms of the achievement of their specific
objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the investments. The physical performance review
would provide an indication of the effectiveness of procurement done by CJACs, compliance with and/or needed
adjustments to cost indicators, physical/financial indicators and to the formats included in the operational



9
manuals, and the quality of project investments and the profile of distribution of project benefits. The annual
physical performance review would be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and included in the
Operational Manual.
In the third project year, a final evaluation of experience would be undertaken by indepenent consultants. This
evaluation would cover the economic, financial/fiscal, social and institutional factors relevant to the use of the
methodology as a minimal-risk basis for a follow-on program.
During Technical Discussions it was agreed that IICA would maintain a project information and monitoring
system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, throughout the project period. The Bank would receive
quarterly progress reports not later than April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year during Project
implementation, commencing October 31, 1998 linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of
activities carried out during the quarter. In addition, an annual progress report would be presented by January 31
of each year during Project implementation.
Procurement
Services (US$ 2.5 million):
(a) Direct Project management services, costing approximately US$ 600,000, would be negotiated with
IICA as a sole source supplier. This is justified on the basis of the continuity of key staff of IICA in the
development and implementation of the GOC Peasant Enterprise Zone policy; the unique experience and
rapport of these staff with all stakeholders in the process, including those associated with conflict; and
IICA's demonstrated abilities in managing on-going IBRD-financed operations. The contract would
include the obligation that IICA present audited statements of project accounts to the Bank.
(b) Two key contracts for final project evaluation and follow-on strategic design work, approximately
US$ 625,000, would be awarded to "firms" (firms, universities, major NGOs, foundations) on the basis of
QCBS. In addition, three pilot zone environmental assessments and social assessments, approximately
US$ 600,000, would be awarded through QCBS, advertised locally.
(c) Individual consultants (approximately 12 years of service) valued at approximately US$510,000,
would be employed under annual contracts, subject to continued good performance, initially awarded on
the basis of their qualifications.
Goods (US$ 250,000)
Vehicles, office equipment and communications equipment for the PMG and the pilot zones would be
procured in lots under US$ 35,000 each, owning to the different phasing of the needs, through national
shopping.
Pilot Zone Sub-projects (US$2.1 million)
Management of each pilot zone would award cost sharing transfers to groups and/or individuals
(sponsors) of about US$ 30,000 on average, not to exceed US$ 50,000 each, to share in the cost of social,
economic and environmental protection initiatives relevant to the development of the Peasant Enterprise
Zone. Conditions relating to eligibility, cost sharing, definition of priority areas, duration, and evaluation
criteria would be defined in a zone-specific operating manual to be agreed during a project launch
workshop. Procurement of goods and small works with the use of these funds would be on the basis of
local shopping, and services on the basis of "consultants qualifications". Small amounts of sole source
procurement may be allowed when options for shopping do not exist.
Disbursements
Disbursements will be made based oni documentation and SOEs. Once the the system and reporting arrangements
have been finalized and agreed, the Bank will assess the situation, and if found satisfactory, disbursements will be
made on the basis of quarterly cash projections linked to expected project activities during such period. Financial



10
controls at IICA and the CJAC, assisted by PMG and TG, respectively, shall provide assurances of appropriate
and transparent use of resources. Support documentation of eligible expenditures shall be kept at the CJAC for
community level expenditures (not exceeding US$ 30,000 per contract) and at IICA for the remainder of
expenditures. In the event financial management arrangements acceptable to the Bank (following LACI
requirements) are not yet fully in place by loan effectiveness, reimbursement of expenditures paid out of the
advance to IICA shall be made initially on the basis of SOEs, following Bank standard disbursement procedures.
Financial Reporting and Auditing
IICA will prepare quarterly financial progress reports linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of
activities carried out during the quarter. This reporting arrangement shall foster effective and efficient project
management achieving full integration of the technical and financial functions in the project. The timeliness of
quarterly reporting, assured due to its linkages to disbursements, also ensure the timely engagement and
performance of the yearly audits. Project audits will be contracted for the length of the project with a private
auditing firrn acceptable to the Bank.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project builds upon social capital which already exists, as evidenced in locally generated proposals
for the creation of a Peasant Enterprise Zone. Government-directed colonization efforts have historically failed in
Colombia and elsewhere because they were designed and driven by centralized agencies and outside "experts"
with scant knowledge of local conditions and little accountability to poor communities. In contrast, the Peasant
Enterprise Zone is created by the rural poor who, with the technical, legal and financial assistance of
nongovernmental and governmental institutions, identify, design and implement all development activities in their
own communities. Participation of stakeholders is the bedrock upon which the project is based. But it goes
beyond mere local consent to centrally-driven initiatives. The Peasant Enterprise Zone Project design empowers
participants, through their elected leaders, to take investment decisions, manage project resources, supervised
project activities, and, most importantly, to be accountable for and owners of their project's outcomes.
Alternative approaches such as sectoral support to achieving the project objectives, for example, fostering land
tenure security or agricultural technical assistance, are deemed insufficient by themselves to achieve the
objectives. Such narrow sectoral approaches fall short of the challenge of building social capital, reducing local
social constraints stemming from conflict among stakeholders, and establishing the local ownership needed to
achieve social sustainability. The model for the present project provides a strategy wherein local community
organizations address the complex and interrelated issues they face on the agricultural frontier, and determine for
themselves which elements will be integrated into their Peasant Enterprise Zone.
The model, therefore, tests the proposition that concerted government support of local community initiatives to
reduce conflict through land tenure security, local management of natural resources and local administration of
development investments will remove incentives for conflict and support peaceful co-existence.



11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue               Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development Objective
Progress (IP)           (DO)
Bank-financed
Poverty Reduction and Peace   Colombia: Magdalena    in preparation         n/a
Medio
Rural Poverty Reduction    Colombia: Land Reform   in preparation           n/a/
Natural Resources          Colombia: Natural.           S                    S
Resources Mgt. (3692)
Agricultural Research and  Colombia: PRONATA            S                    S
Extension                  (3871)
Post-conflict Reconstruction    Rwanda, Angola     in preparation           n/a
Rural Infrastructure       2nd Rural Roads (3157)      ICR                   S
Other development agencies
Interamnerican Development    PLANTE: Crop              n/a                 n/a
Bank                       Substitution
Interamerican Development    Social Solidarity          n/a                 n/a
Bank                       Network (poverty)
Interamerican Development    Peace, Coexisttence and    n/a                 n/a
Bank                       Security
Interamerican Development   Program of                  n/a                 n/a
Bank                       Microenterprises
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
A variety of existing programs and services would be available to the local community CJAC if they could access
them. The Ministry of Agriculture's programs supporting microenterprises and employment generation can be
channeled to the Peasant Enterprise Zones. Nongovernmental organizations, such as the Corporation of
Democratic Entities for Development (CEUDES), Center for Investigation of Sustainable Agricultural Production
Systems (CIPAV) and the Habitat Group of the University of Valle (CITCE) are ready and willing to provide
technical support services such as design and implementation of an agroecological zoning and development plan,
design and implementation of sustainable agricultural production systems and design and implementation of
needed infrastructure such as farm roads, electrification, communications and water and sewerage systems. GOC
programs such as PLANTE supporting infrastructure construction, subsidized credit for land purchase and
technical assistance, the Department of National Parks of the Ministry of Environment program for the creation of
buffer zones, the Municipal Governments Unit of Technical Assistance in San Vicente Caguan and San Jose de
Guaviare are each ready and willing to provide support to the Peasant Enterprise Zones. The land titling services
of GOC through INCORA are presently being made available in support of the creation of these zones, and this
support will be ongoing until all such work is completed (INCORA's team in El Pato-Balsillas has completed
60% of titling, and some 300 titles have been issued in the first four months of 1998 in Guaviare). Finally,
private sector entrepreneurs and the CJAC can enter into contractual agreements to enhance product quality and
to introduce new products and technologies tailored to market requirements both domestic and international
A key indicator of success of a pilot zone will be the growing capacity of local community-based organizations to
effectively draw in these existing external resources (human, technical and financial). The PMG will guide and
assist the CJAC, through its field-based TG, in building capacity to access cofinancing resources, technical
assistance and business agreements drawn from the menu of existing projects and programs that can be brought



12
into the Peasant Enterprise Zone. Project resources will be concentrated in building local capacity to manage,
finance and supervise the provision of these services, goods and works.
3. Lessons learned cad reflected in the project design:
Pilot studies carried out over 1996-1997 in preparation of the Land Reform Project, based on provision of
subsidies for land purchase and technical assistance in formnulating farming plans to secure investment credit,
have demonstrated, among other things, that the program works best when clusters of self-selected landless poor
acquire a block of contiguous farms. Such clusters may or may not be formed by pre-existing social groups with
sufficient social capital to expend in self-governance, mutual development assistance, conflict resolution and
other group dynamics which facilitate access to needed infrastructure, equipment, social services, technical
assistance and commercial contracts (transport, processing, etc.).
The Peasant Enterprise Zone approach is strengthened by these findings precisely because these zones originate
in cohesive communities with strong social capital, families which already occupy contiguous farms and already
cooperate in their mutual development. The people of the two already identified pilot zones have established
effective leadership structures based on a democratic process, as evidenced in their capacity to formulate formal
proposals to local, departmental and national governments to create Peasant Enterprise Zones, to work with
nongovernrmental organizations in formulating broad sustainable development plans and priorities and to
successfully negotiate legal creation and delimitation of their Peasant Enterprise Zone.
The Bank also learned through its earlier support of colonization projects in the Department of Caqueta
(Colombia ('aqueta Land Colonization Project, Ln. 7390, ICR June 1978; Colombia Caqueta rural Settlement
Project, Ln 1118, ICR December 1984). These projects were intended to organize the colonization process, but
resulted instead in intensified deforestation, little attention to soils or farming constraints, no attention to
indigenous neighbors, and lack of awareness of conflict and illicit cropping. The present project shows the
important methodological lessons learned, by the shift from promoting colonization to consolidating and making
secure alreaidy functioning colonist communities, from centralized planning and control to local participation to
establish priorities and manage interventions, from forest clearing to creating more sustainable production
systems and management of remaining natural resources.
Finally, the lessons of Bank support for development in situations of conflict (e.g. Palestine, Rwanda, Cambodia,
Afghanistan, Bosnia) indicate the importance of flexible procedures for taking decisions, delegating authority to
field-level officials to design investments, and partnerships with other international agencies (see the Board
Report R97- 14, 4 Frameworkfor World Bank  Involvement in Situations of Conflict, January 30, 1997). The
proposed project is designed to decentralize operational decisions to field-level officials in partnership with the
IIAC (an institution of the Organization of America States). The project fits precisely the Colombian context
reflected in the following quotation from the paper:
"The Bank's relationship is with the government of a member state. As noted previously, it will not
interfer in the domestic political affairs of a member. But, it should take steps to ensure that its
project interventions and conditions do no harmr...for example, that they do not aggravate existing
inequities. Moreover, when requested to do so by a member, the Bank should consider
supporting government attempts to promote activities which ameliorate conditions which may
lead to conflict, through attention to distributive policies; policies and regulations that affect
access Ito resources (credit, land) and opportunities (education, employment); and participation
of excluded groups, etc."
(A FFrameworkfor World Bank Involvement in Situations of Conflict, page 20, paragraph 43).



13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The legal framework for Peasant Enterprise Zones commits the government to find ways to implement this
concept in an effort to promote peace in the countryside. Local, departmental and national government
participation in public hearings, at which specific sustainable development plans for the zones were approved and
recorded, is strong evidence of commitment. -GOC actions in late 1997 in response to decisions affirmed at said
public hearings to create the first two such zones in the country, the Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato and Valle
de Balsillas in Caqueta and the Peasant Enterprise Zone of Guaviare in Guaviare, is strong evidence of borrower
ownership. In addition, INCORA has a plan for the development of 14 additional zones, but is awaiting signs of
success in the methodology before proceeding.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Efforts at reform, in this instance, land reform, in a politically volatile environment in which levels of trust are
low and policymakers respond unsystematically to emergent demands are usually unsustainable (World
Development Report 1997). This has been the case historically in Colombia. The Bank's support to GOC to
develop a model for operationalizing its reform strategy is important to creating a consistent and coherent
approach which systematically builds on social capital, is responsive to initiatives taken by strong community-
based organizations and demonstrates the efficacy of locally initiated, designed and managed development
investments.
The economic and sectoral objectives supported by the Bank are normally detailed rather precisely in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and lending and nonlending operational documentation. The uncertainties inherent in
conflict situations require a more flexible approach, as it is not possible, a priori, to define an complete overall
strategy or its component elements. What is needed in conflict situations is a pragmatic "opportunistic" approach,
learning by doing, in a situation where adopting rigid criteria at the outset is unfeasible (Board Report R97-14, A
Framework for World BankInvolvement in Situations of Conflict, January 30, 1997). This flexible, learning
approach is now provided by the Bank "learning and innovation loan" instrument which is proposed to support
the present project.
Bank experience with rural development and land reform in Colombia has deepened in recent years, which
provides knowledge to firmly support operationalization of the government's land reform strategy. The Bank's
ability to help government to articulate and pursue this approach brings strong value added obtained through
experience with the Colombia Natural Resources Management Project, the Colombia PRONATA program, and
the three projects under preparation: Magdalena Medio, Land Reform and Peasant Enterprise Zones.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
I. Economic analysis:
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
As this applies to evaluating the methodology, it will be determined as part of the End-of-Project Impact
Assessment.
2. Financial analysis: As for "economic analysis".
Fiscal impact: As for "economic analysis".



14
3. Technical:
Concerning strengthening of social capitai, experience exists which will be used in the project. The Resident
Mission in Bogota might be strengthened by the addition of a social development specialist who will bring this
kind of experience to bear on the project. Technical feasibility of subprojects will be analyzed as part of the
decision-making process by the CJAC-TG.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies: At the pilot zone level, there is clear evidence of willingness to learn and develop, and the
capacity to do so.
Project management: IICA has a proven record of managing and guiding operations of this type.
5. Social
Diagnostic level social analysis has been completed as part of project preparation (see Annex 13). Specifically, a
diagnosis of living conditions as well as communal organizations and present productive system in the two first
pilots, have been carried out through a one-year, participatory exercise among peasants and NGOs. The main
socioeconomic constraints to rural development have been analyzed The participatory exercise has also defined
some of the constitutive elements of the people's perception of existing social capital, including local knowledge,
communitv organization, self initiative, social cohesion and the determination to improve living conditions and
obtain stability and peace. In each pilot zone, more detailed social assessment will be performed during the first
months o. project implementation, which will provide the baseline socioeconomic database, guidance criteria for
the selection of subprojects (e.g. benefit streams for women, youth), organization of production in subprojects,
participation mechanisms and institutional arrangements, and selection of performance indicators and monitoring
and evaluation procedures.
6. Environmental assessment.  Environmental Category   [X] B
Diagnostic level environmental analysis has been conducted as part of project preparation (see Annex 14) which
identifies environmental issues and opportunities. A major environmental opportunity is testing a model for
slowing the advance of the agricultural frontier into amazonian forest reserves. Environmental assessments will
be conducted for each of the Peasant Enterprise Zones, which will establish overall environmental management
plans for each zone as well as the requirements for subproject-specific EAs in satisfaction of good practice and
Colombia.'s regulatory requirements. Terms of reference for the EAs to be conducted in the Peasant Enterprise
Zones will be included in the project operating manual.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory approach not
used, describe Why not applicable]:
a.     Primary Beneficiaries
The primary beneficiaries of the establishment and development of the Peasant Enterprise Zones will be low
incomne rural families currently living on public lands affected by colonization, violence, illegal crops. The
activities to be supported by the Bank in this operation are prepared by beneficiaries themselves with technical
assistance from the project. Their proposals clearly go beyond consultation regarding people's views, toward
shared decision-making, management, and control of the projects, a concept beneficiaries call "co-govemance".
Local community-based organizations initiated the process culminating in the legal creation of the first two
Peasant E,nterprise Zones on September/December 1997. Public hearings were held in the municipal capitals
concerned, where stakeholders participated in endorsing the community's proposal. The agreement was signed by
the CJAC and the twenty one Presidents of Community Action Councils, the Ministry of Environment, the
Ministry of Agriculture, INCORA, the NGO Corporacion Unidades Democraticas para el Desarollo (CEUDES),



15
CORPOAMAZONIA and the Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Alto Magdalena (CAM) (see records in annex
13). The same local-community-based organizations will design, implement and evaluate the activities sponsored
by the project in their zones.
b.     Other Stakeholders:
Local church, local government at the municipal and departmental levels as well as business associations
representing land owners and cattle ranchers are social actors whose interests and own agendas coincide with
those of the Peasant Enterprise Zones. Armed groups currently present in nearby areas as well as the National
Arny are social actors to be informed, consulted and taken into account during project implementation. Initial
social analysis confirms that these actors have been involved over several years in the public debate surrounding
the Agrarian Reform Law-and, specifically, the two pilot Peasant Enterprise Zones. Some of the armned groups
have been directly or indirectly consulted by local actors and they have allowed the process to go forward.
During implementation, the social assessment will analyze the stakes of all local actors and identify means to
enhance communication and reduce conflict and incentives for violence.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A key premise of the project design is that land tenure security coupled with sustainable development investments
that are identified, designed and implemented by local community-based organizations will ensure sustainability.
This is presumed to be so because the Bank is joining an ongoing, grassroots-driven development initiative which
by its nature promises a greater probability of sustainability because it is grounded in local initiative, experience
and aspiration. Assessing the sustainability of the methodology developed through the project will be a key
element of the End-of-Project Evaluation prior to any decision to scale up.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The project is inherently risky, for although it represents a small outlay of funds, it directly addresses key
dimensions of social and politicial turmoil in Colombia. It is the government's intention to foster, through
Peasant Enterprise Zones, local and regional dialogue among actors in conflict to prepare the terrain for peaceful
development in the next administration. The government proposes to do so, not by increasing military
occupancy nor heightening the presence of the state in colonization zones, but by creating conditions for peace to
emerge by building social capital, economic opportunity and commitment to peace at the local level.
A key aspect of the Bank's work in countries where conflict is significant is the absence of effectively functioning
goverment institutions in parts of the country. In such conditions, the Bank seeks to minimize risk by ensuring
there is an effective.counterpart organization or agency with which to work (which may be something less than a
full central governmental presence in the area; see Board Report R97-14, A Frameworkfor WorldBank
Involvement in Situations of Conflict, January 30, 1997). In the present case, the project is designed to work
through the few national governmental institutions which have had field presence in the Peasant Enterprise Zones
for the last two years (INCORA, Department of Parks, Plan Sur), department and municipal governments which
are fully operational in the regions, and nongovernmental organizations which have had permanent teams in the
zones for the last two years. The project will also operate in partnership with IICA, an institution of the
Organization of American States with 40 years of experience in Colombia.
Yet the risk of violence remains, which concerns both beneficiaries as well as participating government officials
and Bank staff responsible for supervision. To manage this key risk, assurances will be obtained from the GOC,
based on agreements with the parties in conflict at the local level and the CJAC, for the security of each zone and
officials involved. Through a process of low-key, informal but systematic dissemination of information and
consultation with the parties, it is expected that such risks can be minimized. As regards security of Bank staff,
clearance from United Nations officials charged with security for missions of multilateral institutions in Colombia
will be obtained, and specific assurances will be obtained from the GOC with regard to the security of each



16
mission visiting the field. The Country Director and Resident Representative of the Bank in Bogota will, based
on the foregoing, clear all field activities of Bank staff. Specific arrangements for ensuring security of Bank staff
will be agreed at negotiations.
Risk                  Risk Ratin              Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to
Objective"
Commitment to learn under uncertain       S       Continuous presence of credible advice and support
and possibly adverse conditions                   from a reputable implementation agency
Responsiveness of service providers to    S       Proactive dissemination of results and issues to
demands from the pilot communities                Interministerial Committee
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
Local stability permnitting work to       S       Bank's willingness to adjust the rate of support, but
proceed                                           not to abandon it in the face of instability
Agro-ecological conditions permit        M        Environmental, social, economic and technical
commercialization of certain crops                analyses of specific production subprojects carried
out prior to investment decision
Overall Risk Rating      S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Under normal circumstances, participatory community development is not controversial. However, the project
itself is addressing politically sensitive aspects of Colombian life: violence, national dialogue on equity and
justice, links to illicit activity. Such associations and resultant visibility make it controversial, domestically and
internationally.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
*  Borrower signs a legal agreement with the Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation to manage
implementation of the project including the administration of funds and the monitoring and reporting system.
*  Approval of an indicative Annual Operating Plan for the remaining of the calendar year 1998 by the Bank.
*  Approval of the operational manual of the project, which would include: (i) procurement procedures, including a
detailed clescription of division of responsibilities between CJAG, TG and PMG; (ii) a procurement plan; (iii)
standard terms of reference for consultants to be hired in the PMG and TGs; (iv) terms of reference of zone
specific EAs and SAs; (v) sample letters of invitation, procedures for evaluation and sample contracts for
consulting services; (vi) terms of reference for auditors; and (vii) plan of accounts.



17
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.J:
*  Draft Annual Operating Plans and budgets would be made available to the Bank for review and approval by
November 15 of each year; the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved.
A project information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would be maintained
by IICA throughout the project period. The Bank would receive quarterly progress reports not later than April
30, July 31 and October 31 of each year during Project implementation, commencing October 31, 1998 linking
project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of activities carried out during the quarter. In addition, an
annual progress report would be presented by January 31 of each year during Project implementation.
(i) Project accounts would be established, maintained, and audited annually in accordance witlh appropriate
auditing principles and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) with respect to withdrawals on the
basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the
procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (iii) certified copies of audited
accounts and of the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of each
project fiscal year.
Disbursement Conditions
Pilot Zones Subprojects: Approval of zone specific operational manuals acceptable to the Bank, which would
include: (i) precise baseline objectives and specific indicators of project implementation and impact; (ii)
specification of eligibility, cost sharing, definition of priority areas, duration and evaluation criteria, including
environmental clearances, of pilot zones subprojects to be financed under the project; (ii) sample agreement
between CJACs, IICA and sponsoring agencies specifying the financing, implementation and administration
arrangements of pilot zones subprojects. A first year implementation plan and budget would be attached to the
zone specific operational manual.
Agreements reached during Appraisal/Technical Discussions
*  It was confirmed that IICA would be selected as sole source supplier for Project Management based on similar
procedures under which UNDP operates in Colombia.
-  The Colombian delegation informed that the selection of the Secretary General of the Presidency as exectuting
agency of the Project through IICA was under review by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
-  It was confirmed that legally established CJACs will design and manage proposed activities at the local level; be
responsible for contracting and supervising the delivery of services, works and goods in their Peasant Enterprise
Zone and that, with the assistance of PMG/TGs, project funds would be made directly available to them for this
purpose.
*  It was confirmed that representatives of local and national campesino organizations would be allowed to
participate in the Interinstitutional Committee for Peasant Enterprise Zones.
*  It was confirmned that the Junta Directiva of INCORA would formally allocate resources for land titling activities
in the Peasant Enterprise Zones of Caqueta and Guaviare. INCORA's respective Regional Offices include these
activities in their formal work programs.
*  Specific arrangements were agreed concerning monitoring, evaluation and reporting which allow for the active
participation of local stakeholders.
*  It was aegreed that IICA, if applicable, would use Bank standard bidding documents for LIB procurement and
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank for National Competitive Bidding.



18
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. IX  Not applicable.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. INX Not applicable.
[X] The draft Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
0 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): [X] Not applicable.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X3 This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Andrsol                                              Martien van  ieuwkoop, Task Manager



19
Annex la
Program Design Summary
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace
Summary            Performance Indicators        Monitoring and         Assumptions and Risks
Evaluation
CAS Objective:
Rural Social Development
improved, Violence and   (as agreed through
Poverty reduced and      consultations)
Environmentally Sound Use
and Management of Natural
Resources achieved
Program Development
Objective:
Land Reform in colonized   "End-of-program" impact   INCORA, DNP, with        Positive economic growth
areas and Stabilized Rural  indicators of income, equity, support of third-party  persists
Communities              sustainability and social  evaluations of impact
stability (e.g. new areas                           Policy favors economic
proposed by additional                              equality
colonist organizations)
Political stability remains
Stabilized and Rationalized  "End-of-program"
Natural Resources        indicators of sustainable
Management and Use       environmental use (e.g.
reduced tree cutting and
encroachment in indigenous
and forest reserves)



20
Outputs and
Accountabilities:
Conduct a Peasant         Program objectives in terms  INCORA, DNP, IICA in    Agreement among
Enterprise Zone Program:    of income, social stability,   conjunction with third-party  stakeholders on the peace
as a sequence of          environmental stability and   evaluations and stakeholder  objective holds
community-based economic  quality of life, expressed  assessments
and social develop;ment   over a 1 0-year time frame                           Agreement among
projects and environmental  (as in an APL)                                     public/private resource uses
and resource management                                                        is maintained
projects                  Projects in sequence      Evidence of key trigger
triggered in early stages by   indicators ("leading
indicators of national    indicators") receive ongoing
management capacity,      monitoring to permit timely
supported by indicators of   engagement of subsequent
local implementation      phases
readiness, and at later stages
by impact indicators of first
projects
Inputs:
Individual geographically    Development indicators of   INCORA, supported by  Availability of demonstrated
defined projects (up to 8  each project to reflect  DNP, IICA and third-party   community-based
over 10 years), each     specific situations, within    sources of evaluation  development and
including, according to the   context of program goals,                        pacification model(s)
needs of the specific zone,   are formnulated in the local   Systems within projects to
investments in the areas of:  communities with      facilitate "within project  Availability of technically
- agricultural development   participation of beneficiaries adjustments" to lessons  sound and community-
and marketing;                                      learned                   tested environmental
- community and social    Resource use combining                               protection and resource
development;             those of:                                             management practice(s)
- rural infrastructure;   - available government
- institutional development  programs;                                         Agreement between
(local in earlier projects,  - NGO contributions and                           stakeholders on a national
then national)           services;                                             program/strategy for rural
- municipal and community                            enterprise zones
resource generation;
- bilateral and other donor
programs;
- new financing (IBRD)



21
Annex lb
Project Design Summary
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
CAS Objectives, Program .
Goals and Outputs/Inputs
(see Annex I a above)
Project Development                                                             (objectives to CAS goal)
Objectives
Produce a replicable model  Peasant enterprise zone  An "End-of-Project"        Stakeholders commitment to
for Peasant enterprise zone   model and prototype    Evaluation will be         continuing peaceful
managemnet, for application  environmental actions   completed by an            negotiation holds
in "colonization areas" and  judged successful by    independent third party
of prototype actions to   stakeholders, based on                                Social capital is channeled
protect rainforest reserves   indications of economic,                         into peaceful activities
and nearby indigenous     fiscal, social, institutional,
territories               technical soundness.
Produce an Agreed National  Proposals to extend model   A Strategic Design Study
Program for Peasant       and prototype actions to   will be completed, based on
Enterprise Zones          new regions are received   results of the independent
evaluation, to formulate a
national program



22
Project Outputs:                                                                 (outputs to objectives)
Up to three pilot cases   Economic Parameters:        Quarterly Progress Reports   Commitment to learn under
demonstrating the design  (quantitative levels to be  verified by supervision    uncertain and possibly
and initial management of   agreed with communities)    missions and discussed with  adverse conditions is
sustainable actions covering  - 5000 families in zone  CJAC which takes          maintained
- land, environment and    receive titles and titles  corrective actions;
agricultural development    registered;                                          Responsiveness of service
- economic and social     - agreement reached on      "End-of-Project"           providers to new demands
service delivery via      NRM plan based on results   Evaluations are prepared for  from pilot communities is
community-led process     of EA;                      each pilot in collaboration    timely and adequate.
- complementary analyses   - 80 subprojects           with beneficiaries.
and program design studies  implemented benefiting
approx. 2,000 families
Social Parameters:
-  conflict resolution
mechanisms are used;
- consensus reached on
priorization of
subprojects based on
results of SA
- local capacity
established for
subproject
identification,
preparation and
implementation



23
Project Components        Project Inputs            Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Evaluation                (components to outputs)
1. Project Management.    Consulting services,      Performance status will be   Local stability permits work
Establishment of a Project   goods and equipment and    reviewed in implementation  to proceed.
Management Unit (PMG) in  incremental operating costs  workshops twice yearly, and
IICA, which will be       as specified in procurement  adjustments made to
responsible for overall  plan                       enhance performance.
project coordination,
monitoring and
administration.
2. In each pilot case, actions  Short and long term
to be supported in the    consultant services,
following areas:          engagement of specialist
NGOs and private sector
- learning and development: advisers; training, goods,
each pilot zone will have a   operating costs and grants
Technical Group (TG) to    for pilot zones subprojects.
support the CJAC in the
design, implementation and  -  CJACs obtain legal
evaluation of development    status
investments.              -  Interinst. Committee
fully operational
- land, environment and   -  TGs functioning pro-
agriculture, including,but   actively
not limited to social,    -  Establishment of
environmental and            baseline indicators
indigenous peoples           concerning conflict,
assessments; identification  social capital and
and management of buffer     poverty
zones; land use in sensitive
and indigenous peoples
areas; technical assistance
for agricultural production
and marketing
- community capacity and
social capital development,
including but not limited to
formalization of community
leadership and
administration; peaceful
conflict resolution
mechanisms; self-
monitoring and evaluation
of own performance;
strengthening of sub-
community groupings,
including indigenous
peoples, women's groups,
youth, etc.
- economic and social
services, including
identification, prioritization



24
Annex 2
COLOMBIA PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES FOR PEACE
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$ 0.65 million: Project Management. (total cost of component)
Support includes incremental costs of a Project Management Unit (PMG) to be created in IICA,
consisting of a Project Manager, an Assistant Project Manager and an Administrator. TOR have been agreed with
the Bank for the PMG. In addition, a series of technical advisors will be hired for short-term assignments in the
field as well as to support the concurrent monitoring and reporting functions of the PMG. TOR will be reviewed
by the Bank as needed for no objection. The project will also finance the incremental equipment needs for the
PMG function, including a portable computer, laptop computer and accounting software.
Project Component 2 - US$ 5.30 million: Peasant Enterprise Zone Development. (total cost of component)
A. Learning and Development. Each pilot zone will have a Technical Group (TG) to support the CJAC
in the design, implementation and evaluation of development investments. The TG will be composed of a
Facilitator and an Administrator supported by the project and an official designated by INCORA who will be
resident in the zone. The project will finance equipment for the TG office in the field, including a vehicle, laptop
computer,, telephone, fax, photocopier, etc. The TG will have major responsibility for management of project
investments, including capacity building, design studies, contracts management and generation of primary data
for the monitoring and evaluation system, as well as building the capacity of the CJAC to carry out these
functions.
B. Land, Agriculture and Environment. Regional environmental assessments for each pilot zone will be
contractedl by the project to develop an overall environmental management approach. Proposed subproject
alternatives will each require a further environmental analysis to satisfy relevant regulatory requirements, if any,
as part of the design/planning studies undertaken by the CJAC-TG. Issuance of land titles and their recording in
the land registry is the responsibility of INCORA, utilizing counterpart funds (US$ 1.5 million). The Bank
project will finance environmental analyses, resources assessments, adaptive research, extension services,
soil/water waste management planning, marketing and commercialization analyses and small productive
investments.
C. Community and Economic Development. A social assessment of the various stakeholder groups
comprising the Peasant Enterprise Zone will be conducted down to the county (vereda) level to ensure suitable
inclusion of all groups, acceptable mechanisms for their participation, program designs tailored to their social
needs and capabilities and a socioeconomic baseline against which progress can be measured. Based in this
assessment, community capacity building programs will be formulated that are expected to focus upon rural
finance, cooperative promotion, negotiations and conflict resolution, micro-enterprise development as well as
special focus initiatives to address the needs of women, youth and indigenous peoples.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.65 million: Monitoring and Evaluation, Strategic Design Study.total cost of
component)
Independent contractors will carryout an end-of-project Development Impact Assessment and a Strategic
Design Study for the follow-on stage. While the project management monitoring and reporting function will
focus mainly upon performance indicators, the impact assessment will focus upon results on the ground as
measured by outcome indicators. The latter may include indicators such as accumulation of assets, rising social
cohesion, initiation of credit relationships with suppliers, purchase agreements with private sector buyers, etc. as
measured against the baseline. The strategic design study will analyze results of the evaluation, and carry out
analysis of economic effectiveness, financial analysis and an analysis of the social, institutional, political and
environmental constraints and incentives to scaling up.



25
Annex 3
COLOMBIA
PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES FOR PEACE
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ 000)
Component
1.    Project Management
Personnel                                              575
Administration                                          75
Subtotal                                 650
2.    Development of Peasant Enterprise Zones
Leaming and Development Structure                       800
Land, Environment and Agricultural Development         1200
Community and Economic Development                            1700
Subtotal                                 3,700
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation
Concurrent                                              50
Impact Assessment and Strategic Design of
Follow-on Subproject                             600
Subtotal                                 650
Total Baseline Costs* ..............                               5,000
* contingencies included in unit costs



26
Annex 4
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Table A summarizes the project elements, with cost estimates, and proposed procurements methods. All
procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines dated January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ 000s equivalent)
Expenditure Category            |          Procurement Method
ICB       NCB      Other   N.B.F       Total
1. Consulting Services and                             2,5002             2,500
Training                                               (2,500)            (2,500)
2. Goods and Equipment                                  2503                250
(250)              (250)
3. Cost Sharing Transfers for                          2,100               2,100
Subprojects                                           (2,100)            (2,100)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                _         2505               250
(150)              (150)
5. Land Account                                                  1,5006    1,500
(1,500)   (1,500)
Total                                               5,100     1,500     6,600
(5,000)            (5,000)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Total Cost including contingencies
Consultant services (of which, firms contracts for US$1,225,000 through QCBS; US$150,000 through CQ; US$600,000
through sole source and individual contracts for US$525,000
3      Local shopping
4      Awarded to subregional sponsors following conditions agreed in zone-specific operational manuals, which specify local
shopping or direct contracting
Local shopping
6      Land purchase and titling costs by INCORA



27
The Bank would finance: (i) consulting services and training; (ii) goods and equipment for the PMG and
TGs; (iii) grants for pilot zones subprojects consisting of works, goods and equipment, technical assistance, and
agricultural inputs, and (iv) non-salary incremental operating costs.
Consulting Services and Training. The services consist of: (i) consulting assignments for individuals
working in the PMG and TGs for, inter alia, project planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation; and
(ii) technical assistance and studies by eligible executing agencies (firms, NGOs) under contracts specifying
concrete outputs, inter alia for the implementation of environmental assessments, social assessments, and end-of-
project evaluation and strategic design studies. Training consists of workshops, study tours, and courses,
including the cost of the trainers' and trainees fees, rental of training facilities, per diem of trainees or
scholarships, and materials required for the training activities. Consulting services and training would be
procured in accordance with the 1997 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Goods and equipment. On behalf of the Office of the President, IICA would purchase vehicles,
computers and office equipment for an amount of US$250,000 equivalent. Procurement of goods and equipment
in contracts not exceeding US$35,000 per contract would be done through national shopping. Contracts for
goods and equipment exceeding US$ 35,000 would be procured through national competitive bidding.
Subprojects. Procurement for subprojects would be done by the CJACs with support from the TGs and in
accordance with the guidelines specified in the zone-specific operational manual. Financing of subprojects would
be limited to US$50,000 per subproject. All works financed under subprojects would be procured under lump
sum, fixed price dontracts awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified contractors in response
to a written invitation. Similarly, goods, equipment, and agricultural inputs needed for the implementation and
operation of the investment would be procured through national shopping. Due to the small size and isolated
nature of sub-projects national shopping procedures may not be feasible in many cases. Therefore, for sub-
projects below US$30,000 procurement of goods, works and services for subprojects would be done through a
system of direct contracting, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2,000,000.



28
Table B summarizes the Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review. Prior review
arrangements have been minimized in favor of post-review efforts which would be incorporated in the project
auditing arrangements. The Bank would conduct a prior review of: (i) contracts of goods and equipment
exceeding US$ 35,000 each; (ii) consultant selection documentation (terms of reference, shortlists, selection, draft
contract, etc.) for services with an estimated contract amount of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or
more for indiividuals; (iii) terns of reference for all consulting services contracts; and (iv) all consultants contracts
based on a single source or of a critical nature. The Bank would carry out a post-review of procurement by
sponsoring agencies and CJACs on a sample basis during supervision. IICA would recruit auditors who would
not only examine financial implementation but also procurement procedures and physical implementation in the
field. These auditors would carry-out annual audits on the basis of a sample not lower than 50% of the Bank-
financed investments in the first two project years and 40% in the remaining year.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value       Procurement        Contracts Subject
Category           (Threshold US$)         Method                 to
Prior Review
1. Consulting Services and                    Selection according to
Training                                    Consultants Guidelines
- Firmns/NGOs/Universities  100,000 and less                                TORs only
over 100,000                                        All
- Individuals                50,000 and less                                TORs only
over 50,000                                        All
2. Goods and Equipment       35,000 and less    National shopping                NIL
over 35,000            NCB                         All
3. Cost Sharing Transfers for    30,000 and less   Community Participation      None
subprojects
30,001-50,000     National Shopping               None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$1,800,000 (36%)



29
Disbursement
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of three years, beginning the first quarter of
FY99 through the end of the second quarter of FY02. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001,
and the closing date of the loan is December 31, 2001. The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category
is shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount of the Loan   % of Expenditures
Allocated        to be financed
(in US$ 000)
1. Consulting Services and Training                    2,400             100%
2. Goods and Equipment                                   200              90%
3. Grants for pilot zones subprojects                  2,000       100% of the
amount of the
Grant
4. Incremental Operating Costs                           150              90%
8. Unallocated                                           250
Total              5,000
Consulting services include contracts to carry out: (i) training; (ii) pre-investments studies; (iii) support to
subproject implementation; (iv) monitoring and evaluation studies and events; (v) project coordination; and (vi)
audits. Training, consisting of workshops, study tours, and (degree) courses, includes the cost of the trainers' and
trainees fees, rental of training facilities, per diem of trainees or scholarships and materials required for the
training activities. Grants for pilot zones subprojects would include civil works, goods, equipment, and
agricultural inputs. Goods and equipment under grants for community subprojects include, inter alia, basic
construction goods, tools, spare parts, basic machinery and furniture. Incremental operating expenditures include
expenditures for travel, office rental, office materials and supplies, utilities, office and equipment maintenance,
field materials and per diems. The term agricultural inputs means seeds, fertilizers and a positive list of chemicals
to be included in the Operational Manual.
For the purposes of disbursing for subprojects the CJAC would open an account in a local bank. Once a
cost-sharing transfer for a subproject is approved (with the clearance of the PMG as needed), the subproject
document would form the basis of the agreement between IICA and the CJAC for the purpose of financing the
subproject. The document specifies the works, goods, equipment, inputs to be purchased as well as the
contribution of the beneficiaries to the investment. Following the disbursement schedule included in the
subproject document, IICA would transfer funds into the CJAC account. The CJAC, with support from the TG as
needed, subsequently establishes the equivalent of "supplier credit" with the designated supplier or contractor in
the name of the subproject beneficiaries. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the zone
specific operational manuals, would be completed by a designated representative of subproject beneficiaries or
the subproject manager. They would be used to record counterpart financing, consisting of cash contributions,
materials and/or labor inputs and would be subject to project and audit procedures.



30
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior Bank review as indicated in Table B, and amendments to contracts raising the value of
such contracts above the prior review limits. For all other expenditures (goods costing less than US$35,000,
individual consulting services with a contract value below US$50,000, and consulting services provided by
firms/NGOs/Universities, with a contract value below US$100,000, all cost sharing transfers for subprojects and
incremental operating costs) disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for which
supporting documents would be maintained by IICA and would be available for Bank staff review. Special
efforts would be made for the selective review of SOE documentation by visiting Bank missions and auditors.
Retroactive financing of up to US$ 500,000 would be permitted for eligible expenditures made in
accordance with procurement procedures agreed under the project from January 1998, provided that the loan is
signed not later than December 31, 1998. If the loan is signed at a later date, the initial date for eligibility of
expenditures for retroactive financing would be modified so that the period covered by retroactive financing
would be no more than one year.
Financial Management
As the project is more complex than the PPF 282-CO currently being implemented by IICA, it was
agreed during Technical Discussions that IICA would undertake the necessary steps to install a system
compatible with the project's needs. These steps would include the development of a financial project monitoring
mechanism which shall allow the preparation of reports including budget, actual and variance on a quarterly
basis, disaggregated by the major project components and respective disbursement categories. System
development shall be completed before the start of full-scale project implementation, expected to take place by
the end of 1]998. Prior to this date, a Bank supervision mission, which shall include a financial management
specialist shall review progress on the implementation of the agreed financial monitoring system.
Organization. Under the project, the Project Management Group would include an Administrator who
will be responsible for all financial management aspects of the project. Each Technical Group would employ one
financial expert who would be responsible for administrative aspects of project implementation in each Peasant
Enterprise Zone under the guidance of the administrator Bogota. Detailed TORs of all positions related to the
financial management aspects of the project will be included in the Project Operational Manual.
Budgetig It will be agreed during Negotiations that IICA would present by November 15 of each year
an Annual Operating Plan for the subsequent year to the Bank for review and approval. The Annual Operating
Plan would include an annual budget specified according to project components, expenditure categories and
disbursement accounts, including counterpart funds. The budgeting process would be essentially bottom-up.
Based on progress achieved and in collaboration with the CJACs, TGs would submit budget proposals to the
PMG in Bogota. The PMG would consolidate the proposals in a single Plan to be presented and discussed with
the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Rural Enterprise Zones. The Project Cost Tables would be used as a point of
reference in the budgeting process.
Accounts. IICA will establish and maintain activity based project accounts to record all project
transactions from the commencement of project execution. The accounts shall be maintained in accordance with
internationally and locally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. The project
chart of accounts should allow the consolidation of financial information based on the project activities, category
of expenditures, and sources of funds in order to prepare the quarterly progress reports. IICA would also
maintain a register of assets purchased with project funds. The supporting documentation will be kept by llCA
for at least one year after the end of the fiscal year in which the last disbursement for the project takes place and
until it has been examined by the project's auditors. The information will be available at any time for review by
the Government, World Bank Missions and/or independent auditors.



31
Internal controls. A good internal control environment will be ensured by IICA's strong organization
structure, including its internal policies and procedures together with the specific Project Operating Manual. The
Organization structure, the clear delineation of responsibilities together with detailed terms of reference for all
project staff, to be reviewed and cleared by the Bank, provide a sound basis for project management and
operational staff to perform in accordance with high internal control standards. As part of the annual reporting
requirements, IICA would also conduct a physical counting of assets on hand and will compare these with the
accounting records.
Reporting. It will be agreed during Negotiations that IICA would present quarterly progress reports to
the Bank not later than April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year during project implementation,
commencing October 31, 1998. In addition, an annual progress report would be presented by January 31 of each
year during Project implementation. The reports would provide a clear linkage between financial accounting
information and the project monitoring indicators included in the Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement.
Financial accounting information included in the reports would indicate source and application of funds during
the current financial year and cumulatively since the start of the project. Comparisons of actual expenditures
would be shown against budgets agreed upon in Annual Operating Plans at the beginning of each fiscal year and
explanations would be provided for significant variations.
Audits. IICA would hire independent private auditors satisfactory to the Bank under a multiple year
contract to audit on an annual basis the financial statements, the Special Account and SOEs. In addition, the
auditors would prepare a (long-forrn) report on project management. The audit reports would convey the
auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the SOEs, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. Copies of the audit
reports would be provided to the Bank within four months of the end of each state fiscal year. The final version
of the Project Operational Manual will include detailed terms of reference for the auditors, following the
guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook.



32
Annex 5
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
LCSES Social Development Compact                   128
Consultant Trust Funds                             148
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          5
First ]Bank mission (identification)            12/10/1997            12/10/97
Appraisal/Technical Discussions mission dept.    03/30/98             03130/98
Negotiations                                     04/03/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/01/98
Prepared by: Plan Sur, Office of the President, Republic of Colombia
Preparation assistance: Consultant Trust Funds (Spanish, Korean, Swedish)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
William Partridge                  Lead Specialist, Social Development
Martien van Nieuwkoop                   Natural Resources Economics
Robert Crown                         Project Management Design
Maria Clara Mejia                         Social Development
Livio Pino                            Disbursements, Audit
Enzo de Laurentis                            Procurement
Natalia G6mez                           Institutional Finance
Roberto Cucullu                               Counsel



33
Annex 6
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Draft Project Implementation Plan, submitted February 5, 1998 (Plan Sur, Government of Colombia)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Social Aspects and Indigenous Peoples, Peasant Enterprise Zone Project. Maria Clara Mejia (LCSES).
February 12, 1998.*
2.    Aspectos Ambientales (Environmental Aspects), Peasant Enterprise Zone Project. Patricio von
Hildebrand (consultant), February 11, 1998."*
3.    Aspectos Sociales del Proyecto de Reserva Campesina-de El Pato-Balsillas (Social Aspects of the
Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato-Balsillas). Hector Mondrag6n (consultant), February I1, 1998.*
4.    Private Sector Involvement in Peasant Enterprise Zones. Ana Gabriela Mejia (consultant), February 11,
1998.*
5.    Informe de Consultoria para el Soporte Agroeconomico del Proyecto Pato-Balsillas como Experiencia
Piloto de Zonas de Reserva Campesina (Consultant's Reports on the Agroeconomic Support of the Pato-Balsillas
Project as a Peasant Enterprise Zone Pilot Experience). Isabel Robles Bohorques (consultant). February 11,
1998.*
6.    Propuesta de Estrategia de Financiamiento de Proyectos Productivos Campesinos en la Reserva
Campesina de "El Pato" (Proposal for a Strategy to Finance Productive Investments in the Peasant Enterprise
Zone of El Pato). Natalia G6mez (LCCO), February 12, 1998.*
7.     Observaciones para la Memoria Banco Mundial (Observations for the Aide Memoire of the World
Bank). Alfredo Molano Bravo (consultant). February 12, 1998.*
8.     The Political Risks and Potential Benefits ofJlnstituting Peasant Enterprise Zones Amid Colombia's
Violent Conflict. Marc Chernick (consultant), February 20, 1998*
C. Government Documents and Project Reports
1.    Congress of Colombia. Ley 160 de 1994, Reforma Agraria (Law 160 of 1994, Agrarian Reform).*
2.    President of the Republic of Colombia. Decreto Numero 1777 de I Octobre 1996 (Decree 1777 of I
Octob,r 1996) regulating Chapter XIII of Law 160 of 1994 as concerns Peasant Enterprise Zones.*
3.    Colombian Institute of Land Reform (INCORA). Resolucidn Numero 00054 de 18 Dicienmbre 1997, Por
la cual se constituye y delimita la Zona de Reserva Campesina del Guaviare (Resolution 00054 of 18 December
1997 Constituting and Delimiting the Peasant Enterprise Zone of Guaviare).*
4.    Colombian Institute of Land Reform (INCORA). Resoluci6n Numero 00055 de 18 Dicieimbre 1997, Por
la cual se consiizzryey delinita la Zona de Reserva Campesina de la Regi6n de la Cuenca Rio Pato y Valle de



34
Balsillas (Resolution 00055 of 18 December 1997 Constituting and Delimiting the Peasant Enterprise Zone of the
Region of Pato River Basin and the Valley of Balsillas).*
5.    Ministry of Environment. Resolucion Numero 0047 de 19 Enero 1998, Por la cual se amplia y se
redelimita el Parque Nacional Natural Cordillera de Los Pichachos y se sustrae un cirea de la Zona de Reserva
Forestal de laAmazonia (Resolution 0047 of 19 January 1998, Redelimiting the National Park of the Los
Pichachos Mountains and Subtracting an Area of the Amazonian Forest Reserve).*
6.    CEUDES, Sistemas de Produccion de la Region del Pato (Production Systems in the El Pato Region).
Bogota, 1S'97.*
7.    CEUDES, Version Preliminar del Informe Final del Plan de Ordenacion y Manejo Forestal Comitario
para Seis V7eredas de la Regi6n del Pato (Preliminary Version of the Final Report on Environmental Management
of Commual Forests in Six Counties of the Pato Region). Bogota, 1977.*
8.    CEUDES, Metodologiapara la Propuesta de Zonifiaci6n Forestal - El Pato (Methdology for the Forest
Zoning Proposal - El Pato). Bogota, 1997.*
9.    Muanicipio de San Vicente de Caguan, INCORA, Ministry of Environment-Corpoamazonia and Comite
Coordinador de Juntas de Acci6n Comunal, Regi6n del Pato, Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Zona de
Reserva Campesina de la Region del Rio Pato (Sustainable Development Plan for the Peasant Enterprise Zone of
Pato River Region). San Vicente de Caguan, Department of Caqueta, November 29, 1997.*
10.   Ministry of Environrent-Corpoamazonia and Comite Coordinador de Juntas de Acci6n Comunal (El
Pato-Balsillas), Acta de Compromisos, Ordenamiento Territorial Ambiental con Participacion Comunitaria
(Agreement for an Environmental Management Plan with Community Participation), San Vicente de Caguin,
Department of Caqueta, December 8, 1996.*
11.   Foundation Center for Investigation of Sustainable Agricultural Production Systems (CIPAV), Propuesta
de Capacihacidn en Alternativas de Produccion Agropecuaria Sostenible para Reservas Campesinas (Proposal
for Capacity Building in Sustainable Agricultural Production Alternatives for Peasant Enterprise Zones), Cali,
Department Valle de Cauca, December 17, 1997.*
12.   Arnazonian Institute of Scientific Investigation (SINCHI), Estudio de Prefactibilidadpara la
Conformaci6n de una Zona de Reserva Campesina en el Departamento del Guaviare (Prefeasibility Study for the
Formation of a Peasant Enterprise Zone in the Department of Guaviare). Bogota, July 1997.*
13.   Amazonian Institute of Scientific Investigation (SrNCHI), Los Asentamientos Humanos del Guaviare:
Dinamicas y Perspectivas (Human Settlement in Guaviare: Dynamics and Perspectives). BogotA, September
1996.*
14.   Convenio (Borrador) Entre la Presidencia de la Republica de Colombia y el Instituuto Interamericano de
Cooperaci6n para la Agricultura (Draft Agreement Between the Presidency of Colombia and the Interamerican
Institute for Agricultural Cooperation) dated .................1 998 (to be submitted at appraisal).*
*Including electronic files.



35
Annex 7
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                            -                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
liumber of Closed Loans/credits: 156
.i-ti'e Loans
co-PE-46112   IBRD42420    1998   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA               PASTO EDUCATION                    7.20        0.00            0.00          7.20         0.00       0.00
CO-PE-0691    IBRD42430    1998   GOV OF COLOMBIA                      ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION               40.00        0.00            0.00         40.00         0.00       0.00
CO-PE-40102   IBRD41380    1997   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                     REG.REF.TA                        12.50       0.00             0.00         12.09         1.60       0.00
CO-PZ-6094    IBRD41960    1997   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA               FIN MRKTS DEV TA                  15.00       0.00             0.00         14.65         1.99       0.00
CO-FZ-3?29I   18RD39730    1996   GOVERNMENT OF COLOHBrA               gR8AM ENVIRONMENT TA              20.00        0.00            0.00         16.66         9.15       0.00
Co-PE-6972    IBRD4021A    1996   BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN            URBAN TRNSPRT                     59.59       0.00             0.00         55.08        18.59       0.00
C.O-Ft-69i7    IBRD3954A   1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                     POWER MARKET DEVELOP             104.30       0.00             0.00         62.72        39.64      -3.21
CO-PE-6987    IBRD39550    1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                     POWER MARKET DEVELOP             145.00       0.00             0.00        136.54        39.64      -3.21
CO-PE-6694    IBRD39520    1996   GOVERNMENT                           SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL              58.00       0.00             0.00         47.35        37.72       0.00
CO-PE-6894    IBRD39530    1996   GOVERNMENT                           SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL              87.00       0.00             0.00         71.62        37.72       0.00
CO-PE-6880    IBRD38710    1995   GOVERNMENT OF CLM                    AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO              51.00       0.00             0.00         45.34        19.35       0.00
CO-PE-6e93    IBRD38270    1995   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA               ENERGY TA                         11.00        0.00            0.00          5.78         3.13       0.00
CO-PE-6866    IBRD36830    1994   GOV. OF COLOMBIA                     SECONDARY EDUC                    90.00       0.00             0.00         65.36        31.13       0.00
CO-PE-6368    IBRD36920    1994   GOV OF COLOMBIA                      NATURAL RESOURCE MAN              39.00        0.00            0.00         26.04        11.19       8.34
CO-PE-6889    IBRD36690    1994   GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA                  PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN              30.00        0.00            0.00         12.32         6.53       0.00
CO-PE-6e54    IBRD36150    1993   GOV OF COLOMBIA          IA          MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER              50.00        0.00            0.00         37.81        26.30       6.58
CO-PE-685?    IBRD33360    1991   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                     MUNIC DEVT                        60.00        0.00            0.00          5.05         5.05       0.00
Total                                                                                                   879.59        0.00            0.00        661.61       288.73       8.50
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  217.98            6,908.83            7,126.81
of which has been repaid:                   7.45            5,396.91            5,404.36
To:al now held by IBRD and IDA:                  872.14            1,588.35            2,460.49
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               50.99               50.99
Of which repaid               :                0.00                50.99               50.99
Total Undisbursed                :              661.61                76.01              737.62
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
h. Ratsna of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU a highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
NDsbe:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



36
Colombia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Jan-98
(InI US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1963/90               Coltejer                7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1967/70/74/84/86/87/88   Enka                  .38    0.00    0.00    2.29      .38    0.00    0.00    2.29
1969185/88193/95      CF del Valle           16.22    7.43    0.00   31.63   16.22    7.43    0.00   31.63
1977/89/92/94/96      Promigas               15.30    1.13    0.00   49.64    9.50    1.13    0.00   35.15
1981/85/87/89/91/92/94   Leasing Bolivar      5.80     .25    0.00    1.20    5.80      .25    0.00    1.20
1987                  PRODESAL                0.00     .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00
1990/92               ODC                    11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11   11.55    0.00    0.00   27.11
1994/95               Corfinansa              4.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    4.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1995                  Corfinsura             13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Icollantas             14.00     .46    5.00    0.00   14.00      .46    5.00    0.00
1996                  Proyectos              10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    2.15    0.00    0.00
1997                  Suleasing              30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  127.53   16.29    5.00  111.87   82.73   13.44    5.00   97.38
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



37
Annex 8 -
Colombia at a glance                                                               8/28/97
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  Income       Development dlmond,
Popuion mid-1996 (milons)                             37.4       485     1.125
GNP percapha 1996 (US$)                              2.190     3.710     1750                Life expecancy
GNP 1996 (b//ions US$)                                81.9     1,799     1.967
Averge annual growth, 1990.96
PoPUiston                                              1.8       1.7      1t4      GNP                              GM"
Labor tome                                             2.7       2.3       1.8      per                            prrmry
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Povty: headcount index (% ofpopulatiOn)                 19
irban population ( oftotal population)                73         74        56
lill axpey at bnith (ears)                             70         69        67
\rdant mftlt  wer 1.000 6ve births)                     26        37        41A s to saf watr
Chid mainutfition (4 of children under 5)              10                                  A       to .
Access to safe water ('A of populabtion)                96        80        78
i_tey m     ofpopLaon age* +)                           9         13
Grou prkmary enrollment (4 of school-age popuation)   121       1i0       104              Colombia
mle                                                                                    - 05  Lower-middle4ncome grup
FeNale                                                                  101    L
KEYECONNOMIC RATlOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978    1SS        1 1996   1996
Econornlcratios
GOP (bons USS)                               131      34.9      78.1      87.3
Groa domestic MnveslentmGDP                  17.0    19.0       23.5      23.4
ExposM d goods and servIcsGDP                15.8    13.8       174       16.6            Opennes of ecnomy
Gross domet aynga/GDP                        18.8    20.3       20.4      211
Oroe nlorial savtngsGDP                      IOA      16.9      17.2      17.5
Curent aemunt beance/GDP                       _      -4.6      -s.6      -s5.
-ltra peymenttGDP                             1.0      2.5       1.3       1.S     Savins   Iinvestment
rolal debVGOP                                29.7    40.8       321       33.3
Trota debt service/exports                   14.3    40.0       25.0      41.9
Present value of dobVGDP                       _                24.8
PrenrA value of dobexports                     _               131.4                          Indebtedness
1978-4  199646    1996         1996  1991746C
gawPe annual growk-/)
COP                                  3.7      4.2      5.A       2.1       4.1
GNP per oaptta.                      1.1      2.9      1.6       2.0       2.8                                 gu
Exportsofgoodsand aervle             3.1      8.7      2.7       5.2       3.8   _ _
MC1URE ot the ECONOMY
1976    19S8       1995     19SS      Growth raeinof   utannd lnv"emnt (n%)
Agriciftue                                   23.9    17.0       18.9     1S.9      0
Indu-                                        29.2    34.8       23.0      19.5     4     
ManluaftltA                                23.2    21.7       18.8      15.5    ra
Services                                     46.9    48.4        8t.1    64.6 B_
Private consumption                          72.3    69.0       70.4     68.8                                     0
Gnerw gornment consumption                    8.9    10.7        9.2     '1 0.1
IpII od oosand servies                       14.0    12.5       20.0     1.0t 
176485  1986.96      1996      1sis
(average annuat gmth)                                                              Growth rates of esprfu and Importa (%)
Ariltire                                     29      3.1        6.2      14      go
_dtry                                         3.3     3.0        3.7     -1.2
Manifacturing                               25       32        1.0      -2.5     40..
SevIcs                                        4.3     63         6.1       3.6     20 _
Private consumption                           3.6     1.8        5.1     -2.2
Gerlmegovemment consumption                   6.4      6.9       5.5     1 1.0       |                            e r4    n  es
Gos domestic Investment                       5.0     1 1.9      9.8       2.6    4C-a
Impor of goods and services                   5.9    11 .        7.5       0.5
Gros national product                         3.2      4.8       3.5       3.5- p
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates, Figures in hlics are for years other than thes specifed.
The diamonds show tour key ndicator In the country (in bold) compared with Rs incornemgroup average. If data are missing, the dciamond will
be incompleta.



38
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986       1995     1996
Dometc pricos                                                                         Intltlon (%)
tf dange)                                                                            40
Consumer prkes                                22.9      24.0       20.9     21.6     i       O
Impidt GDP deflator                            22.9     24.9       20.8      21.2    20 
Govomment finance*                                                                     ..
(X of GDP)                                                                            a
Cunent rovenue                                          20.3       30.4     31.5             91    *2     n    u'    Is    e
Curent budget balnce                             ..      4.3        6.S      8.1              -     GDP dotd  --CPI
Ove0 l surplusidefcit                            ..    -4.6        -1.4     -2.9
TRADE
1978     198$       1995     1996
(mDuon USS)                                                                           Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Tolwexports (fob)                                ..   3,650      10,201   10,630       c
Coffee                                         ..   1,702       1,832    1,577
Petmoleum                                       ..       .      2,164    2,889
Manactures                                     ..       ..      5,160    4,879      os                            r
Toptal kports (cf)                                               12,921   12,755
Food                                            .                                       DHHFDIFHf
Fuel and energy                                        466       264       240
Capital goods                                  ..   1,165       4,776    4.237
ExportpflceIndex(1987100)                        _         ,,      145       164            o0  II  12 e    3    4        9 es
Import price Index (19trI7100)                   _         ..      267       260                  oE  potu    oD
Tem  of tade (1987.100)                          ,,       ..         64       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS__
11975     915S      1995     1996
(mnlEs USS)                                                                           Cunent acerat balance to GOP ratio (e)
Expoe of goods ad evIes                      2.105    4.642      13.771   14.545   s
Imopts of goods and  ,vI0es                   Z07    4,S99    16,211   16,541
ReAour  balance                                 U       .347     -2,439   -1,997      I -,
Not hnooe                                     -318   -1.710    -2,750   -3,401        *
Not aMnta tandes                                 ..     455        797       614     e
Cramnt account balance,                                                              4        eo    *2   52  |4   3 | 7
be    offm   cawr trene                        ..   1,602    -4,393    4.764
Fraing Rams (ne                                  ..   1.371       4.715    8,356
5huhnettv                          111      231       -322   -1,S72    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-22 1:7
Cttangesin netr.e'm111                                  231     ~          .j,1~
Mema o:_                                                                                     ___
Reseres bkudt gold (mlL USS)                   633    2.202       8,458   10,041
ConvsIon ate OocJS1)                          30.9    142.3       944.5  1,036.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1i7s     1NS        11199    19s
(Mm- US$)
Tol dot outslanding and disbused             3.758   14,248    25,047   29,069
BRD                                          834    2.399      2.548    2,177                           A
IDA                                           23       18         11        10   |                    21773 
GoaiposI8eawmftt       1i(m!Us)
Tald debt sevice                               314    1,980       4,694    6,443   |                          N, 2787
IBRD                                          78      318        604      520                                      E
IDA                                            I        0          1         1                                    1738
CAwnpoelllon d ned resourc nows
Officialg rnts                               1        20         73
Ofildcredlo                                  III      938       .472    1,531
Prt4 credIon                                 216     382       1,109    1,592 2               '
Foin  dieth i     nt          -               37    1.023      2,501    3,253
Pondl equlty                                   0        0        131       -21
16473
World Bank program
Commndments                                  B6       490        207      334       A . IBRD                    E  Ole"_
Dlsbumsments                                 105      590        238       152  8|-10        D-OOlrnwltlsterd   F-Pne        |
Principal repayments                          34      165        415      351       C - IMF                     G . Sh1rl4e0n
"et lows                                      71      424       -177      -199   1                                           1
Interet paymen                                45      153        191       170
Net tmnsfers                                  27      271       -366      .369
Devlopment Economcs                                                                                                     812197



39
Annex 9
Colombia Peasant Enterprise Zones Project
Project Preparation Plan
(January 1998- April 1998)
1.    Role, Responsibility and Staffing for Project Preparation
See attachment 1.
2.    Bank Assistance to be Provided During Project Preparation
i.    The Task Team Leader, visited Colombia in December 1997 to identify the project and to discuss/review
progress of local community committees in formulation of proposals for pilot subprojects, functioning of the
interinstitutional committee supporting the project and proposals for project management arrangements at the community,
project and national levels.
ii.    A mission consisting of all Bank staff and consultants assisting project preparation took place from
January 27 through February 14, 1998. This mission assisted Colombian counterparts in the preparation of the project and
conducted preappraisal reviews of social, environmental, technical, financial, economic, institutional and managerial
arrangernents.
iii    Utilizing SIDA (Swedish Agency for International Development) funds, the Bank provided a grant of
US$ 30,000 to the Colombian project preparation team to defray costs of participation of project beneficiaries in project
planning (travel, lodging, etc).
3.    Arrangements for Local/Foreign Consultant Inputs:
a.    Consultant Trust Funds (Spanish and Korean) are used to strengthen the Bank preparation team and
assist the borrower tearn in the following areas: Environmental Assessment, Social Assessment, Agricultural
Engineering, Private Sector Linkages and Political and Institutional Risk Analysis.
4.    Timetable for Project Preparation
i.    Submission of draft technical studies     February 1998
ii.    Appraisal and Negotiations               March-April 1998
5.    Key Outputs of Project Preparation
i.    Legal instruments creating and delimiting
Peasant Enterprise Zones                 December 1997
ii.    Feasibility-level preparation studies for
.two pilot zones                         February 1998
iii.    Draft Implementation Plan              February 1998
iv.    Draft Legal Agreement for project
implementation by Interamerican
Institute for Agricultural Cooperation -  March 1998



40
6.    Proposed Public Consultation/Participation Process
Preparation of the project involves direct participation of beneficiary communities, nongovernmental
organizations, and representatives of cooperating government institutions in the formulation of draft proposals for pilot
subprojects in Caclueti and Guaviare. This participation process took place during 1996 and 1997, culminating in public
hearings conducted in the pilot project areas in September (Guarviare) and November (El Pato-Balsillas), and the issuance
of legal instruments on the part of INCORA creating the two pilot zones.
Local community-based organizations in each pilot area will be strengthened by tfie project provision of a
Technical Group (TG) which, jointly with the local organization, will form a committee that will take all investment
decisions, supervise execution of subprojects and monitor and evaluate outcomes on the ground.
NGOs which have provided and will continue to provide technical support and capacity building services to the
local community leaders are CEDUES (Corporacion Unidades Democraticas para el Desarrollo, CITCE (Centro de
Investigaciones Teccnol6gicas de la Construccion y Estructura), CIPAV (Centro de Investigaciones para la Agricultura
Sostenible del Vaille de Cauca), and SINCHI (Amazonian Institute for Scientific Investigation).
The project provides a Private Sector Advisory Group (managers of a tropical fruit export corporation, a major
food store chain, etc.) to ensure systematic attention and advice concerning linkages between production systems
developed in Peasant Enterprise Zones and the transport, packaging and processing requirements of the domestic and
international markets. The Private Sector Advisory Group will also introduce beneficiaries to private sector finance
alternatives and commercial business contracting processes, as concerns the commercialization of small-holder
agricultural production in Colombia.



41
Attachment 1
Core Project Preparation Team
Bank                                                   Borrower
Name            Unit               Role                 Name              Agency               Role
W. Partridge      LCSES       Lead Specialist, Social   Dario Fajardo,       Office of       Director, Project
Development, Task     General Manager,      Presidency     Management Group
Team Leader            Plan Sur                            (PMG) in IICA
M. van Nieuwkoop     LCSES         Natural Resources    Constanza Ramirez,      Office of      Assistant Director,
Economist, Task      Assistant to Gen.     Presidency         PMG, IICA
Manager          Manager, Plan Sur
M. C. Mejia       LCSES       Social Scientist, social   Hector Mondrag6n,    Adviser, Nat.    Consultant,
assessment,         Anthropologist    Indigenous Org.   Indigenous Peoples,
resettlement, indigenous                     of Colombia         PMG, IICA
peoples
Alfredo Molano,     Independent      Consultant, Social
Sociologist       Consultant       Analaysis, PMG,
IICA
R. Crown        LCOQE         Technical Adviser,      Dario Fajardo,       Office of      Director, PMG, IICA
project management     Generai Manager,     Presidency
design              Plan Sur
L. Pino        LCOAA            Accounting,           Juliana Botia,    Interam. Inst. for    Financial
disbursements, auditing    Accountant        Agric. Coop.    Management, PMG,
ICCA;               IICA
E. de Laurentis    LCSES            Procurement          Jorge Truillo,    Interam. Inst. for  Administrator, PMG,
Director        Agric. Coop.,          ICCA
Administation         IICA
R. Cucullu       LEGLA        Counsel, legal isssues   Jorge Truillo,   Interam. Inst. for   Administator, PMG,
and arrangements         Director         Agric. Coop.,          IICA
Adminstration         IICA
N. G6mez         LCCCO         Operations Officer,     Jorge Truillo,    Interam. Inst. for  Administrator, PMG,
institutional finance     Director         Agric. Coop.,          [ICA
Administration        IICA
A. G. Mejia     Consultant   Private Sector Linkages  Javier Diaz Molina,   National          Private Sector
President;      Association of     Advisory Group
Exporters
Juan Jose Perfetti   Colombian
Del Carral, Exec.   International
Director        Corporation
P. von Hildebrand    Consultant     Environmental       Favio Arjona, Vice    Ministry of     Federal Support to
Assessment             Minister        Environment    Project, Env. Issuess
Luis Edmundo      Corpoamazonia    Regional Support to
Maya, Director                      Project, Env. Issues
General
1. Robles      Consultant        Agricultural        Eduardo Medina,      Ministry of     Federal Support to
Engineering            Adviser        Agriculture and    Peasant Enterprise
Rural        Zones, Agriculture
Development           Issues



42
Annex 10
Colombia Peasant Enterprise Zones Project
DRAFT Project Implementation Plan
1.    Institutional Arrangements
Organization Responsible for the Project:  Office of the President, Government of Colombia.
Implementation Agreements:  The Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA) will be responsible for
project implementation under a Legal Agreement signed between the Office of the President and IICA. See draft
Agreement (attachrment 1)
Responsibilities for Coordination among Implementing Agencies: An Interinstitutional Committee has been appointed by
the Government of Colombia to coordinate and facilitate all agencies contributing to the Peasant Enterprise Zones pilots,
membership of which includes the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Colombian
Institute of Agrarian Reform, National Department of Planning together with NGOs supporting the pilots and
representatives of local governments.
Participation Arrangements:   Local community-based organizations strengthened by a Technical Group (TG)
supported by the project will take all investment decisions, supervised all subprojects and monitor and evaluate outcomes
on the ground.
Role of Bank during project implementation:  The Resident Mission in Bogota, Colombia will be strengthen by an
additional staff specialist in Social Development to support implementation of the Peasant Enterprise Zones pilots, in
addition to regular supervision mission from headquarters. In both instances, staff supporting implementation will be
those who have assisted project preparation.
Administrative Arrangements for project implementation:  IICA will create a Project Management Group to
administer project resources, prepare, supervise and issue payments of contracts and consultant services agreements,
maintain financial records to be made available to Bank missions and independent auditors, and submit quarterly progress
reports detailing planned and actual expenditures which will trigger quarterly disbursements. The following figure shows
these arrangements.
r   GOC Office of Presidenc 
Interinstituition     .                                                              Mun.Govt
al Committee 
Line Agencies                       Project Management Group (IICA)                    NGOs
Private
Firms
CJACITG                             CJAC/TG                         CJAC/TG
Pilot Z:one #1                      Pilot Zone #2             F     Pilot Zone #3



43
2:     Implementation Schedule
The figure below displays the timebound implementation schedule, including monitoring and reporting requirements and
end-of-project impact evaluation and strategic design study for follow-on action.
Project Activities     1998                          1999                          2000
June   Sept   Dec    Mar   June   Sept   Dec   Mar   June   Sept   Dec    Mar
IICA Mgt. Contract    ---- - 
Monitoring'                   x       x       x       x      x       x      x       x       x      x       x
Concurrent Eval.                      x               x              x              x              x
Final Eval.Contract                                                                         x      x
Final Eval. Report                                                                                 x
Design Study                                                                                               x
Design Report                                                                                              x
Pilot # I
Establish local TG     x
Launch Workshop        x
Subprojects Prep.             x
Subprojects Impl.
Adjust Workshops'                     x              x               x              x              x
Pilot # 2
Public Consultations                  x
Prep. Devel. Plan                             x
Establish local TG                                   x
Launch Workshop                                      x
Subprojects Prep.                                            x
Subprojects Impl.
Adjust. Workshops                                                    x              x              x
Pilot # 3
Public Consultations                                                                x
Prep. Devel. Plan                                                                          x
Establish local TG                                                                                 x
'Disbursements will be made against quarterly reports, indicating projected cash flow, actual expenses, and implementation progress
as measured against agreed indicators.
I Adjustment Workshops will be conducted in the field by the PMG and the beneficiaries every six months, to jointly review progress
on the ground and agree upon any changes in approach or re-design of activities/responsiblities based on results obtained to that point.
Concurrent evaluation reports by an independent specialist will be presented to the workshop to enrich the information available to all
participants.



44
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring of the project inputs and implementation progress would be the responsibility of IICA, as part of its
budget management and reporting system. It would report quarterly, in a form consistent with the requirements
of "LACI'', based on reports from the pilot areas. Project outputs would be monitored as part of this process, and
would be evaluated (with inputs) in bi-annual implementation workshops. An independent concurrent evaluation
would provide additional information to the bi-annual workshop participants. The workshops would include
members PMG staff, CJAC-TG, the Bank, leaders of NGOs and local government entities and would be open to
the community as well. The objectives of the workshops would be to draw conclusions from experience and
modify practices as required.
Overall indicators for project performance monitoring will be agreed at negotiations and recorded in a
supplementary letter to the loan agreement. Specific indicators of project implementation performance and
impact in the respective pilot zones would be agreed at the outset during individual project launch workshops and
used as the basis of the evaluation of the program. In the third project year, a final evaluation of experience would
be undertaken by consultants. This evaluation would cover the economic, financial/fiscal, social and institutional
factors relevant to a recommendation on whether the methodology would serve as a minimal-risk basis for a
follow-on program.
During Technical Discussions it was agreed that IICA would carry out an ex-post annual physical perfornance
review of subproject implementation, through an independent evaluator. The evaluator would assess, on a sample
basis, the success of pilot zones subprojects financed by the project, in terms of the achievement of their specific
objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the investments. For each subproject in the sample,
the audits would focus on the following points: (i) the adequacy of the physical design in relation to the
subproject's objective; (ii) the quality and cost of subproject execution; (iii) the efficiency of procurement
procedures used, including the transparency of the process and the quality of the documentation to complete
SOEs; and l(iv) the targeting of project beneficiaries. The physical performance review would provide an
indication of the effectiveness of procurement done by CJACs, compliance with and/or needed adjustments to
cost indicators, physical/financial indicators and to the formats included in the operational manuals, and the
quality of project investments and the profile of distribution of project benefits. The annual physical performance
review would be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and included in the Operational Manual.



45
Annex 11
Colombia Peasant Enterprise Zones Project
Quality Assurance Plan
Date: March 2,1998    PCD Review Date: n/a                     Appraisal Date: March 30, 1998
Team  Leader: William Partridge                         Task Manager: Martien van Nieuwkoop
Technical Director: Maritta Koch-Weser                  Country Director: Andres Solimano
1.    Quality Approach on Major Issues
(a)    Economic Analysis:  As this applies to the methodology, it will be determined as part of the impact
assessment.
(b)    Financial Analysis:   To be determined as part of the impact assessment.
(c)    Technical/Engineering:      The project will provide each subproject management unit (CJAC)
Technical Group to assist in design and appraisal of proposed subproject activities, to be verified by the Project
Management Unit.
(d)    Institutional Capacity:The project will finance capacity strengthening at the local community level,
including management of subproject components contracting and supervision, financial management and accounting
procedures, and impact monitoring and evaluation. National institutions, nongovernmental organizations and private
sector actors collaborating in delivery of the subproject activities are deemed capable of taking needed actions in an
efficient and effective manner, and are, therefore, not in need of capacity building.
(e)    Environmental Assessment:  Envirdnmental issues are at the core of the project design, and have been
identified and assessed at a diagnostic level by relevant national government institutions and nongovernmental
organizations. Environmental mitigation and management plans will be formulated as integral elements of each
subproject design approved by the CJAC and its Technical Group (TWG) which will include environmental specialist
support, and verified by the PMG which includes an environmental specialist.
(f)    Social Assessment:   Social, political, cultural and institutional factors are integral to the design of the
Peasant Enterprise Zone, and have directed its formation from the beginning. These factors will be the subject of a
locale-specific social assessment preparatory to the design of each pilot subproject by the PMG and the CJAC-TG. Social
development action plans will be formulated as contributions to subproject design approved by the CCCP, assisted by its
Technical Group (TG) which will include social development expertise, and verified by the PMG which includes a social
development specialist.
(g)    Procurement: All goods, works and services will be procured at the local level. The Bank's guidelines
for community-based procurement and disbursement will be utilized by each CJAC-TG, and verified by the PMG. IICA
is experienced with Bank procurement and disbursement policies and will provide technical guidance and capacity
building for each CJAC-TG.
(h)    Operational Quality: The project is a response to needs which have been articulated clearly by local
communities requesting the establishment of a Peasant Enterprise Zone and to the desire of the Government of Colombia



46
to meet those needs. It will assist local communities in establishing conditions for the reduction of violence, poverty and
environmental degradation. It will assist the Govemment of Colombia in piloting approaches to decentralized, demand-
driven, participatory rural development within the context of existing agrarian reformn legislation to which it is committed,
and contribute to the formulation of a national program of peace and development in rural areas struck by violence. The
Bank team will closely cooperate with the PMG to ensure a sustainable and enabling institutional environment for
decentralized and participatory development. A social development specialist in the Bank's Resident Mission will
provide continuous technical support to the PMG to help assure quality.
2.    Internal Quality Support Arrangements and Schedule
(a)    Quality Assurance Team
(i)    Mr. Nat Colletta (SDV): participation and social conflict issues
(ii)    Mr. Gonzalo Castro (ENVGC): environmental management
(iii)   Mr. Marc Chernick (Georgetown University): institutional and political risk
(b)    Role of Country Team
The Country Team has been regularly involved in decisions during early phases of project preparation. The
Director convened a subcommittee to coordinate team work on peace projects in Colombia composed of the Lead
Specialist for Governance, Lead Specialist for Social Development and Sector Leaders for LCSES and LCSHD which
have guided preparation work. The Country Team will review the PAD prior to departure of the appraisal mission, and
will ensure appropriate staffing of technical support functions during implementation.
(c)    Time Schedule for Quality Assurance Function
(i)    Constitution of the QAT          February 1998
(ii)   Review of draft PAD              February 1998
(iii)  Implementation Support           Throughout As Needed
3.    Budget
QAT Member                Dates                Staff Weeks         USS
Nat Colletta              Feb.-March 1998      1.0                 2,800
Gonzalo Castro            Feb.-March 1998      1.0                 2,800
Marc Chernick             Feb.-March 1998      1.0                 2,000
Total (estimate)                                                   7,600
4.    Checklist of Bank Policies
[x] Indigenous Peoples                     [Riparian water rights
[ I Cultural Property                      []Financial management
[x] Significant environmental impacts      []Financing recurrent costs
[x] Natural habitats                      [x] Local cost sharing
[x] Gender issues                          []Cost-sharing above country three-year average
[]Involuntary resenlement                  []Retroactive financing above normal limit
[x] Significant consultation               []Disputed territory
[x] Significant participation              L] Other



47
Annex 12
Colombia: Peasant Enterprise Zones for Peace
Environmental Assessment Summary
General Framework
The proposed project to establish Peasant Enterprise Zones is embedded within the context of sustainable
development, which places fundamental importance on sustainable management of natural resources.
All proposed activities have the following main components in common: land titling, development of new
models for agricultural production, forest conservation, service infrastructure, consolidation of peasant organizations in
the decision-making process and the co-administration of projects.
Each of these elements has direct implications for the environment.
Land Titling.  In the process of changing the legal status of public lands to become private property, the land
acquires a new ecological function (Article 58 of the Constitution of Colombia) and should be managed in a way that
causes the least amount of damage to the environment. With regard to protected areas that are to be regularized, any
party interested in an uncultivated land parcel greater than 50 ha must demonstrate that he or she will either maintain 20%
of the total terrain as forest area or plant trees equaling the same percentage of the total amount of land (Decree 2278/53,
article 14). The samne decree under article 1 5 states that aside from lands in protected areas, at least 10% of the areas
destined to colonization (Amazonian forest reserve, in this instance) should be maintained as forests. In addition, areas of
slopes greater than 40 degrees and areas in the zone of 50 meters on either side of waterways must be kept under forest
cover.
Development of New Farming Activities.    One of the fundamental aims of the Peasant Enterprise Zone is
the stabilization of the colonization process. In large part, the permanent expansion of colonization at the expense of the
forest areas stems from the use of inappropriate production systems, which drain and ultimately destroy the soil.
Therefore, in the Peasant Enterprise Zone it is necessary to develop alternatives to the traditional bush-fallow agricultural
approach. The alternative models should be individually chosen to fit the particular environmental situation and in this
manner ensure ecological soundness.
Forest Conservation.  The feasibility of the Peasant Enterprise Zone is intrinsically linked to forest
conservation, as these forests are the ones that protect the soil, prevent erosion, maintain water supplies, contribute to the
rural economy and are fundamental to protecting the biodiversity of the region. Thus, the subprojects chosen in each
zone must guarantee not only adequate management of the forests in the areas of human habitation and in critical areas
(e.g. slopes, springs) of the Peasant Enterprise Zone, but also in adjacent areas subject to indirect impacts including forest
reserves and national parks.
Service Infrastructure. The development of tubed water supply, sewage systems, access roads, points for storing
or processing products, strategies for waste disposal, electrification and so forth requires detailed planning by the
institutions invplved. In this way, creation or exacerbation of negative environmental impacts can be avoided. In
addition, it is expected that each such activity will comply with the requirements of the Ministry of Environment for
environmental studies necessary to acquire an environmental permit.
Consolidation of Local Community Organizations.  The adequate management of water and soils, points for
storing or processing products, strategies for waste disposal, forest conservation -- all presume a change of mentality
regarding the environment on the part of rural beneficiaries. The presence of strong farmers organizations and leadership
capacity in the Peasant Enterprise Zone provide the mechanisms to foster that change in attitude among the population
and to encourage environmentally sound initiatives without which the zones will not succeed.



48
Specific Framework
Up to the present time, two pilot Peasant Enterprise Zones have been selected: the El Pato-Balsillas and the
Guaviare zones. The focus in this analysis is upon the former, in order to identify the kinds of environmental issues likely
to be encountered generally and the specific recommendations for handling them in the course of formulating
mechanisms for operationalizing them in Peasant Enterprise Zones.
The analysis is based upon a review of documents provided by nongovemmental and governmental organizations
that have conducted environmental studies in the region of El Pato-Balsillas (see Annex 6), plus satellite images of the
region from UAESPNN, the environmental management plan for the Department of CaquetA. technical studies of the
National Parks Departnent "Los Picachos" concerning the nearby national park, and interviews with professionals of the
Ministry of Environment, NGOs and others who have conducted research in the region.
Overview.    The El Pato-Balsillas region corresponds to the Caguan River Basin, which is a tributary of the
Caqueta River. It extends from the apex of the Eastern Mountain Range (over 3,000 meters above sea level) to the vast
forests of the Amazon. The region contains numerous ecological zones.
At its highest reaches, the region contains part of the last (in Colombia) remaining unbroken forest corridor
uniting the high Andean Mountain Range and the Amazon forest. This segment of the region is being protected through
the creation, in the 1970s, of "El Parque Nacional Natural Cordillera de los Picachos" or the Picachos Mountains National
Park, noted for its high biodiversity. The Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato-Balsillas has this park as its northern limit.
Further down but still in its upper reaches, the region contains many examples of previously fertile soils of the altiplano
that have now been completely deforested. The largest of these alitiplano valleys in Balsillas, which falls within the
Peasant Enterprise Zone, which has been devoted to cattle rearing for decades. Other areas are marked by steep slopes
and poorer soils still covered by dense forest. This area is described as irregular with pronounced slopes (more than 50%
of the land area) defined by acidic soils, little soil depth, good drainage and a high aluminum content. This is the region
of most human settlement which occurs in the form of dispersed farms. The lower parts of the river basin have been
almost completely deforested and are also the sites of scattered human settlements as well as one of the two concentrated
populations in the region, some 80 houses known as Guayabal (the other being 60 houses on the road entering Balsillas
valley).
The Issues.   The local economy was in the past heavily dependent upon logging. Cutting forest has been
prohibited by the guerrilla since 1995, and the economy is today based on extensive cattle ranching and subsistence
farming, both compounding the negative effects on the environment of prior human extractive activity. Farms are about
50% wooded at present, with the remainder in pasture and crops. Neither production system is considered sustainable
over the long term due to declining soil quality once vegetation is removed. An unpaved road connecting the region with
the city of Huila and the municipal capital of San Vicente del Cagu3an cuts across the area of El Pato-Balsillas. This road
has little stability and no drainage. Some 15 kilometers still remain to be finished in the lower reaches of the river basin.
During the rainy season, the road is not usable. The Picachos Mountains National Park has been invaded in the past, and
mechanisms are needed to ensure this will be controlled. Introduction of electricity, roads, sewage and other services are
being planned by colonists, which must be licensed by the environmental authority before work is allowed to begin.
Recommnendations.    The Peasant Enterprise Zones should be considered, first and foremost, projects of
environmental recuperation in colonization zones which have been damaged by human activities. This can be achieved
through innovating socioeconomic strategies that are environmentally sustainable. For this reason, an overall
Environmental Assessment (EA, including an Environmental Management Plan for the Zone as its major output) should
be completed. Terms of reference for both the overall EA of each zone and the specific analyses required for
environmental licenses (discussed below) should be agreed at appraisal.
Before committing to new production systems being proposed by colonists, NGOs and government specialists, it
is important that localized, specific environmental analysis be conducted for the major areas of human occupation. The



49
objective should be to evaluated the environmental implications of proposed activities as well as to provide infornation
regarding alternative production systems which can be sustainable in the local environment.
For example, it is clear that much of the poor soils of the sloping uplands region is suitable only for forest.
Efforts to intensify crop agriculture or livestock production on these soils are not going to prove sustainable. Proposals
by an NGO to create a sustainable system for commercial production of wood from the remaining forest in the Peasant
Enterprise Zone (50 year production cycle) are not well grounded in necessary analysis. Sustainability is based on
assumptions of natural regeneration and management of organic stubble matter, which have proven impractical
elsewhere. Other proposals for fruit and nut tree farming appear more sustainable, but these have not been investigated
for economic, social and technical feasibility. Another example is the valley called Balsillas which has historically been
devoted to pasture for cattle. Plans by colonists, NGOs and government specialists envision commercial agriculture in
this area. Yet at this point, soils studies have not been completed nor have hydological studies, so it is not possible to
determine is this activity would be sustainable.
CIPAV has been contracted to provide technical and capacity building services with regard to sustainable
production systems in these two areas. This is quite welcome, as CIPAV is an organization with 15 years successful
experience with innovative production models which are economically viable and ecologically sustainable. It seems quite
reasonable to pursue this kind of strategy, defining production system alternatives only afterward. This exercise will have
important consequences on the size of farms, products and technologies chosen, capturing upstream values, conservation
of soils, water and forests, and so on.
The demarcation of the Picachos Mountains National Park has been completed. Areas previously occupied by
colonists have been subtracted, and a corresponding area (or greater size, in fact) has been added to the park in
compensation. What remains to be done is to establish a buffer zone in the areas of human habitation bordering the park.
For this, support for building a structure to house personnel of the National Parks Department in the region is needed.
As regard basic services, the are several proposals on the table for which specific environmental analyses are
required. Colonists, NGOs and government specialists have proposed installation of a public sewage system in Guayabal,
provision of septic tanks and sanitary services for Balsillas valley, rural electrification and improvement of footpaths into
roads. All of these proposal require an environmental assessment in order to obtain an environmental license from
Ministry of Environment (Law 99/93). Additionally, it is not clear that the completion of the road Neiva-San Vicente has
an environmental license nor that the terms establish by that license, if it has one, are being met. Finally, there is a
proposal for a additional road linking the Neiva-San Vicente one with the Indigenous Community of Altamira. This
proposal also requires an EA.



50
Annex 13
Colombia Peasant Enterprise Zones
Social Analysis Summary
This annex has been structured in two chapters: Chapter one on general social aspects related to the project and
Chapter Two on indigenous peoples and territories located nearby the Zones.
CHAPTER ONE
Social Assessment
Because of the nature of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) a full Social Assessment (SA) has not been
carried out during the preparation stage. Instead, a preliminary social analysis of social, political, cultural and
organization factors has been completed and incorporated into the design of each pilot subproject at a diagnostic
level, by relevant national governmental institutions and non-governmental organizations, in alliance with
beneficiaries of each pilot in this operation.
As part of the implementation process, a full SA for each pilot will be carried out and a Social Development
Plan will be formulated as an integral element of each subproject design to be approved by the community, assisted
by a Technical Group (TG), and verified by the Project Management Group (PMG). Attachment 1 presents terms
of reference for the SA.
Following is a preliminary overview of the social dimensions of the first of three pilots of the project, the
Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato-Balsillas. It describes: a) main social actors and their socioeconomic
characteristics and stakes in the project; b) key social factors for project design and implementation; c) consultation
and participation of beneficiaries in project design and execution; d) socioeconomic and political conflicts
surrounding the establishment of the PEZs and, e) expected contribution of PEZ to the creation of peace conditions.
The second part of this annex presents the core elements of an Indigenous development Plan to be prepared during
project execution. Inclusion of neighbor indigenous groups in both planning and execution of specific interventions
will be a condition "For project implementation.
Project Objectives
The proposal for establishing a Peasant Enterprise Zone in El Pato-Balsillas has the following objectives: (a)
reordering the territory on the bases of a social and environmental sustainable plan; (b) resolution of main conflicts
dealing with land tenure and use of natural resources, in order to reduce the historical incentives for violence; (c)
stabilize the colonization process and neutralize current trends toward concentration of land in the hands of cattle
ranchers, by giving access to land title, credit, and technical assistance to peasants and rural landless families; (d)
prevent further expansion of the agricultural frontier and destruction of the Amazonian natural resources; (e) support
altemative commercial value activities to raise peasants income level and facilitate accumulation of capital in the
hands of peasants associations and other communal organizations; (f) give preferential treatment to the Peasant
Enterprise Zone, by the governmental institutions that encompass the six subsystems created by the Agrarian Reform
Law.
Potential Beneficiaries
According to the Agrarian Reform Law (Ley 160 de 1994), the establishment of a Peasant Enterprise Zone
has the following fundamental objectives: elimination of inequity in land tenure and promotion of social
redistribution by guaranteeing low-income rural families and landless people, access to land, title and social
development opportunities. The direct beneficiaries of a PRZ are then, rural families living in predominantly non-



51
adjudicated public lands (valdios nacionales), areas affected by colonization, violence, illegal crops, or areas in which
there is a need for territorial ordering, land distribution and regulation.
Millions of poor people in Colombia can be beneficiaries of PRZ. Many areas inside and outside the
agricultural frontier might be benefited as well, provided the areas occupied fulfill the requirements established by the
Agrarian Reform Law and related decrees and regulations. Finally, the program might also be a suitable strategy for
more than a million people that have been displaced by violence nationwide, for whom there are no other option than
migration to urban poverty belts or permanence in precarious refugees camps.
Direct Beneficiaries of El Pato-Balsillas Peasants Reserve Zone
In the case of the first pilot project to be tested through this operation, the beneficiaries constitute a group of
approximately 1,000 low-income families located in the El Pato Region, an area under colonization since 1949, and
historic scenario of violence and confrontation. El Pato zone is localized in the Municipality of San Vicente del
Caguan, Departamento del Caqueta in the so-called "transicion andino-amazonica", with an extension of around
90,000 Ha.
Colonization of El Pato was initiated decades ago by indigenous Paeces and peasants displaced by violence
in Tolima, Huila and Cauca Departments. The majority of the population lives in the mountainous zone of "Alto
Pato", which was subtracted from the Amazonian Forest Reserve in 1984. Since then, peasants have been awaiting
government support, property titles and land regularization, a process that just started at the end of 1997 as a
consequence of peasants marches to Bogota and the subsequent establishment of the Peasant Enterprise Zone
requested by thousands of poor peasants and promised by the President of the Republic.
Beneficiaries of the titling and regularization program in El Pato have been identified in each county by the
local community organizations named Juntas de Accion Comunal (JAC). Governmental institutions such as
INCORA have also identified and selected a group of 60 landless families that will be entitled to receive a plot in
Balsillas valley in the first farm already bought by the government to start the land distribution program. This two
groups of beneficiaries define in turn the two-fold strategy titling and regularization of public land already occupied
by colonists and distribution of land purchased to private owners. At this point, some 60% of the farms have already
been titled and registered to their owners.
Socioeconomic and Political Characteristics
Approximately 1,000 families reside in the El Pato-Balsillas zone, the majority of which are colonists
dedicated to wood extraction, subsistence crops, commercial products (in minor scale: lulo, coffee, beans and corn),
and small amounts of livestqck fattened for patrons. The average family income among rural families in the zone is
equivalent to 1.5 minimum salaries. The average size of the plots occupied by family is about 40 Ha. About 25% of
the households are widowed women.
The people of El Pato have lived in isolation with regard to governmental assistance -- lack of public
services, precarious infrastructure and communications, weak presence of the state, armed confrontation and illicit
crops have shaped the region. Regarding public services, El Pato counts two health posts and a few schools to attend
thousands kids spread throughout 90,000 ha. Two small villages Guayabal and Balsillas with approximately 80
houses each, are the only place for trade and services. There is no road that communicates rural counties in El Pato
and the Municipality of San Vicente del Caguan. Commercial exchange and business take place with the nearby
Departament of Huila, centered on the city of Neiva.
The zone has been colonized, bombarded by the army, abandoned and resettled several times during the last
several decades and has historically been an scene of confrontation between the national army and the guerrilla.
Because of its location, difficult access and sociopolitical conditions, El Pato is consider by the Colombian
Government as a "Zonia de Orden Pubhlico". The area has been articulated to only local commercial circuits and has



52
not either been favored by governmental development programs. Occupation of the area by arned groups has left the
civil society caught in the middle, with no alternatives for establishing stability and improving living conditions.
During the 1 980s, the presence of drug dealers and illicit crops added a new element to local conflicts. Illicit
crops are today marginal mainly due to the fumigation carried out by the national arny in 1993 and low prices of
coca leaf. However coca fields accounted for a big portion of forest clearing, as well as timber sales.
In addition to land tenure conflicts, armed confrontation problems and illegal crops, 35 years of irrational
occupation of the territory has taken place with the consequent environmental degradation resultant poverty. El Pato
has been an area of agricultural frontier in permanent expansion, putting pressure on the highly sensitive Amazonian
ecosystem and the Picachos Mountains National Park. Because of the fragile biophysical environment,
transformation of forest into grassland and extensive open-field crops have exacerbated an irrational system of
production that reproduces poverty.
Perhaps what best characterizes peasant communities in El Pato is their level of organization, self
management capacity and genuine initiative. Peasants have participated and have become main actors in several
attempts to establish peace and insertion within the legal institutional framework. Local community-based
organizations have made part of federations and confederations of poor peasants, landless and indigenous peoples.
and have actively f-ought for genuine agrarian reform. In spite of agreements reached with the Colombian
Government, local associations have been subject to attacks by powerful economic groups and vested interests related
to cattle ranching.
But in the imidst of such adverse historical processes, El Pato communities have emerged with an outstanding
strength and self-determination to make reality the promised Zonas de Reserva Campesina
Community Participation
The establishment of a Peasant Enterprise Zone in El Pato-Balsillas area is the response of the Colombian
Government to the petitions posed by thousands families that marched to the city of Bogota in August 1996 to request
govemment action to stop fumigating the area with poisonous pesticides that destroy both illegal and legal crops and
to provide land security and alternatives for social development to the poor. In that occasion, the government of
Colombia signed an agreement, that was nothing else than the governments obligation to comply with the mandate
expressed in the Agrarian refonn Law approved in 1994.
The subsequent negotiation process has been rather difficult. Peasants were threatened and the maximum
leader that organized the peasant marches was assassinated in 1997. In spite of the difficulties, local communities
and governmental organizations have continued the process. Several public audiences resulting in written agreements
have been carried out involving the main social actors. Attachment 2 presents the following records and official
agreements: a) Acta de la Asamblea de Concertacion entre las Instituciones del Sistema Nacional Ambiental y el
Comite Coordinador de las Juntas de Accion Comunal de la Region del Pato; Guayabal; San l'icente del Caguan;
Diciembre 9 de 1996; b) Acta de Compromisos Comunidad-Incora; Guayabal;San Vicente del Caguan, 1996; c) Acta
de Audiencia Publicapara la Formulacion de la Zona de reserva Campesina del Valle del Balsillas y la region del
Pato; Guyabal. Noviembre 29 de 1997.
The prograrn for establishing a Peasant Enterprise Zone in El Pato-Balsillas has, therefore, resulted from a
wide participatory process and has been preceded by a popular initiative at the national and local level. The
Sustainable Development Plan approved by the municipal government, INCORA, and community leaders is in itself a
community development plan to reorder the territory, develop sustainable productive activities improving living
conditions for the poor, strengthening local capacity and empowering peasant beneficiaries.



53
Community Organization
Peasants in El Pato have developed a solid community organization and a well-organized decision-making
system. Participation is understood by community leaders as co-management and empowerment. With no doubt, the
most important assets and key factor for project success is the existent social capital, expressed in social cohesion and
high level of cooperation among the 35 Juntas de Accion Comunal, Presidents Assembly, a multiactive cooperative
(COOMULTIPATO - 48 members), women's association and cultural committee. In 1997, a Coordination
Committee of Juntas de Accion Comunal (CJAC) was created as an executive organism to represent the community
and expedite the process of the establishment the Peasant Enterprise Zone in El Pato-Balsillas.
In addition to the high level of social cohesion, the community of El Pato, influenced in part by the guerrilla
movement, has developed a very complex moral and juridical system that includes punishments for those that cut
forest, rob, rape women or children, etc. Such sociopolitical norms have been recognized by governmental and non-
governmental organizations that work in the area.
Main Conflicts
The zone declared by INCORA as "Zona de Reserva Campesina del Pato-Balsillas" is an scenario of multiple
social conflicts in constant interaction. Some conflicts are internal to the region while others are external and more
related to the course of the war at the national level. Main internal conflicts that currently shape the local life in El
Pato are: (a) land tenure conflicts; (b) land use conflicts; and (c).conflicts related to illegal crops such as coca and
amapola (dramatically reduced since 1993) and (d) administrative and jurisdictional conflicts with the municipal
government and local powers.
The main external conflict is related to the agrarian reform process and its social foundations in front of
which, powerful vested economic, political and military interests have manifested degrees of opposition. On the
other hand, the two-year process of creating the Peasant Enterprise Zone of El Pato-Balsillas has been allowed to go
on by these external armned combatants. The evolution of the armed conflict and peace process at the national level
will undoubtedly affect project outcomes.
Specific actions for non-violent conflict resolution will be designed during the social assessment. Whatever
the strategy will be, it is clear that a series of meetings and negotiations and mediations will be necessary to promote
the idea that the project is not a post-war action, but one to be developed to create conditions for peace, tolerance and
non-violent options for conflict resolution in the midst of ongoing conflict. The project will not take the place of any
of the sociopolitical actors. Instead, it will convoke them in sustaining a common effort, that is, stability and social
development for poor peasants and sustainable use of land and natural resources. The establishment of Peasant
Enterprise Zone is a recognition of the role played by social injustice and inequality in terms of access to land,
market, education, etc. in violence and confrontation, and is a clear expression of government commitment to search
for elements of a peace dialogue. Inclusion of the Ministry of Interior within the Inter-institutional Committee is
important as well to assure peace monitoring (Veedurias Civicas).
The strategy for conflict resolution will require dialogue and negotiations with the following actors:
* Powerful groups (paramilitaries-caKtle ranchers whose interest might appear as threatened).
* Information provided to and consultation with guerrilla leaders.
* Information provided to and consultation with officials of the National Army and Ministry of Defense.
Hypothesis to be Tested During Project Life
In order to develop a replicable model for Peasant Enterprise Zones, the following hypothesis should be
tested during project life:
*   Strengthening of civil society reduces incentives for resolving conflict through violence.
*   Organized communities will influence the decisions of armed groups.



54
* Decentralization of the decision-making process and transference of responsibilities from national to local
levels and from institutions to community organizations for the design and execution of their own
development projects, will contribute to reduce unilateral control by armed groups.
* Improving the material and cultural conditions of peasant families will turn them into allies in the protection
and sustainable use of the surrounding natural resources and protected areas.
* Land regularization in the agricultural frontier will prevent further expansion of the colonization process with
consequent protection of rainforest biodiversity.
Arrangements far Community Participation and Empowerment
In spite of the tradition of community organization in- El Pato, there is a need for improving their institutional
capacity to adequately face the new challenge of managing economic development through environmental and
socially sustainable options. Moreover, because the relationship with the nation state in the region has been plagued
with mutual distrust, a long mutual learning process between the parts will be necessary. The following are elements
of a social development strategy for reinforcing and channeling social capital toward project objectives:
Decision-making and execution. It is clear that the core of the pilot operation will be strengthening the Comitd de
Juntas de Acci6n Comunal (CC-JAC) which represents, in turn, the 35 Juntas at the county level that constitute the
Peasant Enterprise Zone. Helping the Committee to get legal recognition within the municipal institutional
framework will necessarily be the first step to enable the community to participate and be accountable for taking
decisions that truly represent the interests of the beneficiaries. Supported by the Bank, the CC-JAC is preparing the
request for legal registration (personeriajuridica).
Technical Assistance. While decision-making is a function that will rest in community organizations, the technical
assistance will be provided by a Technical Group (TG) assembled by the Project Management Group (PMG), to work
together with peasant representatives. In addition to the technical assistance function, the PMG will facilitate the
interinstitutional coordination among governmental actors, private sector, NGOs, etc. Progressive transference of
responsibilities to community organizations should take place as a condition for co-management and beneficiary
empowermnent.
Administration of Funds. There is great interest among social actors involved in the pilot to transfer responsibilities
for administration of funds to local organizations. Management of expenditures and investments for less that 30,000,
will fall under the responsibility of the CJAC-TG. Amounts over 30,000 will be managed by the PMG. Centralized
administration of these funds is desirable, provided that application of funds and investments will be based in
proposals and decisions made by the community, and that interactions will be characterized by transparency,
accountability, and an open and mutual learning process.
Special emphasis should be paid to facilitating wide discussions among beneficiaries around specific
programs or actions to be financed under this loan. Democratically election of members of the CJAC-TG that will
function at the local level, parity in the composition of such group and open consultation and negotiations will be
keys to the success of the project.
CHAPTER TWO'
Strategic Neighbors: Indigenous Peoples and Territories
According to the Agrarian Reform, indigenous territories can not be declared Peasant Enterprise Zones.
However, indigenous Paez (Naso) that pertain to the Altamira Indigenous Reservation (Resguardo Indigena de
Aliamira), located nearby the already declared Peasant Enterprise Zone in El Pato-Balsillas, have participated in
public hearings and expressed support to the project. They have also expressed aspirations of their own, including
-the construction of a road to link them to the market city of Neiva and participation in fruit production programs and



55
corn processing. Attachment 3 presents a document elaborated by the Colombia Indigenous Organization
(Organzaci6n .ndigena de Colombia, ONIC) expressing indigenous support to the creation of the Peasant Enterprise
Zone.
The Altamira area has an extension of 10,556 ha and is one of the indigenous territories of the Paez ethnic
group. Like peasant, indigenous Paez migrated from their ancestral territory (El Cauca Department) to Caqueta in the
violent period when hundreds of indigenous families were annihilated. To preserve their lives, the Paeces opted to
live in the most isolated territory as far as possible from the war. They moved to El Pato.
They have constituted and elected the members of a Cabildo, the maximum traditional authority, according to
the Paeces' rules. In 1993, the Cabildo requested the government to create a Resguardo Paez de Altamira. The
Resguardo was created in 1996 and it is constituted by 145 persons that pertain to 21 families. Currently, the
resguardo receives and manages funds transferred from the National Budget to indigenous territories as mandated by
the Constitution of 1991 and other related legislation. Although the resources are administered by the municipality,
they are communally owned and it is the Cabildo who decides how to use them.
Indigenous Development Plan
A full participatory process to design an Indigenous Development Plan that makes indigenous beneficiaries
of the development program of the Peasant Enterprise Zone and that protects their rights, culture and territories will
be carried out as part of project execution. The participatory indigenous development plan will be financed under this
loan. As an advance, a strategy for inclusion-development options and protection of indigenous rights has been
prepared with the help of a Colombian consultant who is in turn Advisor to the ONIC and Paeces in the region. The
strategy will be based on the following premises:
*   Indigenous Paeces have achieved a high degree of organization and revival of their culture. Education in
lengua naso (ancestral Paez language) is now transmitted by Paez indigenous teachers in el Cauca. Since the
group of Altamira has been relatively isolated, it is desirable that the project facilitates their interaction with
the Consejo Regional Indigena del Cauca (CRIC) and other Paez organizations and movements, so that they
can benefit from the process of ethno-development and self-empowerment undertaken by other Paeces
groups.
*   The cultural, economic and environmental impact of a new road to the resguardo should be assessed by the
Paeces themselves. Information-sharing with other Paez groups that have already gone through similar
experiences should be supported by the project, prior to any decision.
*   Any strategy put in place with the indigenous of the Resguardo de Altamira should be carefully monitored in
order to learn and adjust the methodology before extending it to the indigenous in Guaviare and other Peasant
Enterprise Zones.
*   As much as possible, project activities aimed at strengthening the autonomy and managerial capacity of
colonists, should be extended to indigenous Paez of Altamira, based of course on previous consultations and
framed within their socio-cultural identity.



MAP SECTION



4r                                                                                                                                   71 -'               4 ,   t
40            >                  I       ;       .7TOLIMA'                                                                                 C70                 40A
(   TOLIMA   $/                                                                        |    V I C H A D A                                 PEASANT ENTERPRISE
/            -t'~' j                                           META                                         I                                       -1-'  ZONES OF EL PATO Y
. _   g  / ~1   x_.  /             M.  E T A                                                   <.,--VALLE DE BALSILLAS AND
GUAVIARE
h / ( - v X O u A, 1 N I A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT SITES
CAUCA1H[L
/                                                                                 0   U   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I  N  A~~~~~~~~~~~~-   RIVERS
s  .   -/ z  eEL  PATO  Y   'sas,,    !    ,2             G                   GUAVIARE UA                        -              /                       DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
) ^ / VALLE DE                                                                                                                                         r -   - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BALSILLAS               ',                                                                           /
- / . . X Z (D l.b A 8 ' iri 2 E , . ,, 7' ', V                           A  
(  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~0,.,, ~~~~~~~MILES
'5,    J                                         X                 .                   >                   J                               r  ~ ~ -               0                    50MILES    100
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,                                                  /}                 0ss                                                                                                                100;  !  o  t  loo  200
.   -'-''',  t   ^   QU0  4 '= j-A        I';.                     " 9  '   . " ---'   .   (--   -   , !  ^._                                  KILOMETERS
75                700
s . \ X -v<; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V Ae U r- E S ><>/
r'--PUTLJMAYO                                                                                                                                                          0                      ,
"N,--., /  .        .    |B R A  Z  I L                                   /
x                                     ,j   '-s       ~~~~~~~~~~~VENEZUELA,
ECUADOR                                                                                                                                                                                    L _  M B I A
@to@M;,>g,                0 /-  - X                        t.-1,    du                  i, cJ        S-E                      _  STA~~~~~~~~~~~~50 
deBoqota
This map was produced by the                                                                                                                .
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                    Arca of sapo
The boundaries, colors, denominoations                                                                                                   ,. _ o0                            ', ,
and anyother information shownon      P E R U                                                                    7.-
this map do not imply, on the part of                                                        A   M   A  Z   O   N   A   S                                           EC DOR    JBRAZIL
The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                                     7U I J    .  ' N  3  . JR
on the legal status of any territory, or                              B                                                                                 ;
any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                                                                        I /
such boundaries.                                                                                                                          7P0          j                                R U 7.
rn                                        J                   \                                                                    I                        _ g   -  (      I ,, v       _-_) 074'  70'  75



