Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4363-CO
Loan Agreement
(Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 30, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4363-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and being of the opinion that 
the Law (as defined below) is of paramount importance for the carrying out of the 
Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modification hereby set forth in paragraph (c) of 
Section 9.07 thereof (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
“ (c) On a date six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project  
and initial operation of the Peasant Enterprise 
Zones (as defined in the Loan 
Agreement) included in the Project, their cost and the 
benefits derived and 
to be derived therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank 
of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Approved Annual Operating Plan” means each set of plans and budgets for 
activities under the Project approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph (c) (iv) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(b)
“Approved Pilot Zone Manual” means a Pilot Zone Manual (as defined below) 
which has been approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) (iv) 
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Board President” means the President of a Communal Action Board (as 
defined below), as elected by the residents of one  or more Veredas (as defined below) 
represented by such Board pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(d)
“Chapter XIII” means Chapter XIII of the Law (as defined below);
(e)
“Committee” means a group of members of a Vereda Presidents Assembly (as 
defined below) chosen by such Assembly as its executive arm, to which group each 
Communal Action Board (as defined below) represented in such Assembly has delegated 
such Board’s legal authority to enter into binding contractual arrangements and other 
transactions under the laws of the Borrower on behalf of such Board, specially in 
connection with the execution of Subprojects under Part B.1 of the Project and in 
respect of the development of the applicable Peasant Enterprise Zone (as defined 
below);
(f)
“Committee Agreement” means each agreement entered into by IICA with a 
Committee pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement;
(g)
“Communal Action Board” means Junta de Acción Comunal, a legal entity 
established and operating, under the laws of the Borrower and its own by-laws, within 
the area of one or more given Veredas (as defined below) and with the purposes of 
representing and protecting the interests of the families and individuals residing in 
such Vereda(s), and the term includes other similar legal entities operating in one or 
more different Vereda(s) within the same Municipio (as defined below) under other 
denominations, such as Asociación de Colonos (Settlers Association) or Asociación de 
Presidentes de Comités de Colonos (Settler Committee Presidents Association); 
(h)
“Cost Sharing Transfer” means a Transfer (as defined below) by means of 
which the Borrower, through the Executing Agency (as defined below), will share with 
the corresponding Committee a proportion of the cost of a given activity to be carried 
out under a Subproject (as defined below), to be determined as established in the 
applicable Pilot Zone Manual (as defined below);
(i)
“Decree 1777” means the Borrower’s Decree No. 1777 of October 1, 1996 
which regulates partially the Law (as defined below) in matters pertaining to Peasant 
Enterprise Zones (as defined below);
(j)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures incurred in any given calendar 
year, pursuant to and under each Tentative Plan (as defined below), if any, or to the 
Indicative Operating Plan (as defined below) or to each Approved Annual Operating 
Plan, which expenditures have been approved by the Technical Group (as defined below) 
or by the Project Management Group, (as defined below) as the case may be pursuant to 
the provisions of the applicable Pilot Zone Manual (as defined below); 
Page  3
(k)
“Executing Agency” means: (i) the Presidency’s Department (as defined 
below), until December 31, 1998, acting with the assistance of the Vice-Ministry (as 
defined below) in all matters related to the obligations of the parties and to the 
coordination of the activities to be performed by IICA (as defined below), both under 
the IICA Agreement (as defined below); and (ii) the Vice-Ministry (as defined below), 
from January 1, 1999 onwards;
(l)
“IICA” means Instituto Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola 
(Interamerican Institute of Agricultural Cooperation), an international legal entity 
established by the Member States of the Organization of American States,  pursuant to 
the provisions of Chapter XV of the Chart of said Organization;
(m)
“IICA Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and IICA to be 
entered into pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b) (i) and 6.01 (a) of this 
Loan Agreement;
(n)
“INCORA” means the Borrower’s Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria 
(Institute for the Agrarian Reform);
(o)
“Indicative Operating Plan” means a tentative operating plan and budget 
for the expenditures to be carried out under Parts A and C of the Project during the 
remainder of 1998, provided for under Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement, and 
issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)
“Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 160 of 1994, and the term includes 
Decree No. 1777 and other Borrower’s Decree(s) regulatory thereof;
(q)
“Municipio” means municipality, a political subdivision of the Borrower;
(r)
“Peasant Enterprise Zone” means a geographical area in the Borrower’s 
territories, selected and established by INCORA’s Board of Directors pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 80 of Chapter XIII and of Decree 1777, with the aim to achieve: 
(i) better access of landless poor to productive land, services and development 
opportunities; (ii) effective participation of rural communities in planning and 
implementing development efforts; and (iii) a more rational natural resource 
management at the agricultural frontier;
(s)
“Pilot Zone Manual” means each of the manuals to be prepared by IICA 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) (i) of Section 3.01 of, and paragraph 3 
(b) of Schedule 1 to, this Agreement in connection with a specific Peasant Enterprise 
Zone and the Subprojects (as defined below) to be carried out for the development of 
such Zone under Part B.1 of the Project;
(t)
“Presidency’s Department” means the Borrower’s Administrative Department  
of the Presidency (Departamento Administrativo de la  Presidencia de la República de 
Colombia), established and governed by the Borrower’s Law No. 55 of 1990 and 
Regulatory Decrees thereof;
(u)
“Project Management Group” means the group of individuals to be appointed 
by IICA for purposes of the Project, and to assist IICA in discharging IICA’s 
obligations under the IICA Agreement, all pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 
said Agreement;
(v)
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual provided for under Section 
3.01 (b) (i) (B) of this Agreement and issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(w)
“Subproject” means a set of activities: (i) to be undertaken by the 
applicable Committee, with the assistance of IICA, for purposes of the carrying out of 
Part B.1 of the Project; (ii) which are geared at the strengthening of local capacity 
for self management  regarding planning and implementation, in a sustainable manner, 
of income and employment generating opportunities in a specific Peasant Enterprise 
Zone; and (iii) included in the cofinancing matrix of the corresponding Approved 
Annual Operating Plan;
(x)
“Technical Group” means a group that shall assist each Committee for 
Page  4
purposes of the Project and which will consist of: (i) three representatives of the 
Vereda Presidents Assembly (as defined below), a representative of INCORA; and (ii) a 
technical manager and a financial expert, both selected by the Project Management 
Group and whose services will be financed under the Loan;
(y)
“Tentative Plan” means the operating plan and budget to be attached to 
the corresponding Pilot Zone Manual pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) (ii) 
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, for the activities to be carried out after said 
plan and budget have been approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
(d) (iv) of such Section, under one or more Subprojects (as defined below) for the 
Peasant Enterprise Zone in question during the remainder of the calendar year in which 
the said Plan and Manual have been approved by the Bank;
(z)
“Transfer” means a non reimbursable transfer of funds by the  Borrower, 
through the Executing Agency in accordance with the provisions of the IICA Agreement, 
to a Committee, which transfer will be made as an incentive or a subsidy or in any 
other manner permitted under the provisions of Article 3 of  Decree 1777 in order to 
supplement the contributions made by such Committee to defray specific Eligible 
Expenditures incurred, or to be incurred,  in the execution of a Subproject;
(aa)
“Vereda” means an administrative subdivision of a given Municipio 
comprising a small rural area within the limits of such Municipio, “Vereda Presidents 
Assembly” means the assembly of Board Presidents of several neighboring Veredas 
partially or totally comprised in a given Peasant Enterprise Zone, and “Veredas” means 
the plural of “Vereda”; and
(bb)
“Vice-Ministry” means the Vice-Ministry of Rural Development in the 
Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture, established and governed by the Borrower’s Decree 
Law No. 1279 of 1994.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million dollars ($5,000,000). Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on January 
15 and July 15 in each year. 
Sections 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
Page  5
out the Project through the Executing Agency with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, environmental and land 
administration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through the Executing Agency, shall:
(i)
enter with IICA into an agreement (IICA Agreement): (A) under 
which IICA shall 
bear the responsibility for the overall management of 
the Project, following 
instructions from and acting on behalf of, the 
Executing Agency unless 
otherwise specifically stipulated for in 
such agreement; and (B) which shall 
have attached thereto a manual 
(Project Operational Manual) which shall 
include: (1) 
procurement procedures, including a detailed description of the 
division of responsibilities among IICA (and, within IICA, the Project 
Management Group), and each applicable Committee and Technical Group; (2) the 
procurement plan referred to in Part (C) 1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
this 
Loan Agreement; (3) standard accounting methods and procedures 
(including 
accounts which shall register separately the 
expenditures under the different 
Parts of the Project and each 
Subproject) and consultant and other contracts, 
and terms of 
reference for environmental and social assessments which could be 
included in specific assessments for each Peasant Enterprise Zone;
(ii)
cause IICA to enter with the Committee operating in the 
corresponding Peasant 
Enterprise Zone into an agreement (Committee 
Agreement) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and 
consistent with the corresponding 
Approved Pilot Zone 
Manual, under which: (A) the functions of IICA and of such 
Committee in 
respect of the execution of the Subproject in question shall be 
established; and (B) the Committee in question shall commit to contributing 
such resources as shall be required for the carrying out of each Subproject, 
including funds other than those to be contributed by the Borrower under 
the 
Cost Sharing Transfer for the Subproject in question; and 
(iii)
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank: (A) not assign, or permit 
the 
assignment of, amend, abrogate, revoke, or fail to enforce, 
or to exercise its 
rights under, the IICA Agreement or any provision 
thereof; and (B) cause IICA 
to comply with each of its obligations 
under the IICA Agreement and each 
Committee Agreement and 
not to assign or permit the assignment of, amend, 
abrogate, 
revoke or fail to enforce any Committee Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, through IICA:  
(i)
submit to the Bank for approval, and carry out the Indicative 
Operating Plan 
for purposes of the carrying out of Parts A and C of 
the Project, and, 
provided such Plan has been approved, shall 
not make changes therein except 
with the prior approval of the Bank;  
(ii)
submit to the Bank on November 15 in each calendar year, starting 
in 1998, the 
plan and budget for the activities to be carried out under 
Parts A and C of 
the Project during the following calendar year, 
together with the 
corresponding plan and budget, if any, 
for each Peasant Enterprise Zone and 
the one or more Subprojects to be 
executed therein during the same year, as 
required by the provisions 
of paragraph (d) below;  
(iii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on every said 
plan and 
budget for the year in question and to request that 
changes or adjustments be 
made to such plans and budgets; and
(iv)
provided the Bank shall have approved a set of the said plans and 
budgets for 
the Project (collectively referred to as Approved Annual 
Page  6
Operating Plan), with 
the aforesaid changes and adjustments 
requested by the Bank, if any: (A) carry 
out the Approved Annual 
Operating Plan in question, without changes thereto 
unless previously 
approved by the Bank; and (B) cause the Committee not to 
change 
said Approved Annual Operating Plan and to provide such assistance to 
the carrying out thereof as shall be required, including contributing the 
funds referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) (B) above.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this Section, the Borrower, acting through the Executing Agency, shall, 
through IICA and with the assistance of the Committee:
(i)
prepare and submit to the Bank for review and approval the manual 
(Pilot Zone 
Manual) that will govern the activities under Subprojects in 
the Peasant 
Enterprise Zone in question and which will include: 
(A) precise baseline 
objectives and specific indicators of 
Subproject implementation and impact; 
(B) provisions for determining 
cost sharing proportions between the Borrower 
and the Committee, 
priority areas to be covered under each Subproject, 
including 
environmental aspects and clearances thereunder and duration and 
evaluation criteria for the activities to be included under such Subproject; 
(C) a ceiling for the aggregate cost of the set of activities under each 
Subproject which shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000, unless 
otherwise 
agreed with the Bank; and (D) model agreements to be used 
with suppliers of 
goods, works or services under Subprojects; 
(ii)
attach to such Pilot Zone Manual, also for review and approval by 
the Bank, a 
plan and budget (Tentative Plan) for the part of the 
calendar year remaining 
after the approval of such Pilot Zone Manual 
pursuant to the provisions of 
(iv) below in this paragraph; 
(iii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the Pilot 
Zone Manual 
and on the corresponding Tentative Plan and to propose or 
request that changes 
or adjustments be made to such Manual and/or 
Plan; 
(iv)
after the Bank shall have approved the said Manual and Plan with 
the aforesaid 
changes and adjustments, if any was requested, carry 
out the Tentative Plan 
and maintain the Approved Pilot Zone Manual 
without making changes thereto 
unless said changes have been 
previously agreed with the Bank; and
(v)
ensure that each plan and budget for the activities to be carried 
out for 
purposes of Part B of the Project (including 
Subprojects thereunder), in each 
Peasant Enterprise Zone for which there 
is an Approved Pilot Zone Manual, are 
submitted to the Bank: (A) as 
part of the set of plans and budgets in 
connection with 
Parts A and C of the Project to be submitted to the Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section; and (B) in a 
timely fashion and in respect of each year following the approval of said 
Manual, until the completion of each Subproject for such Peasant 
Enterprise Zone. 
(e)
The Borrower shall refrain from submitting withdrawal applications from 
the Loan Account in respect of expenditures other than Eligible Expenditures;
(f)
Without limitation or restrictions upon the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph of this Section, the Borrower, through the Executing Agency, shall: 
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the letter 
from the Borrower to the Bank of even date 
herewith and in each Approved Pilot 
Zone Manual the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank, on or about the end of each quarter in the year 
Page  7
in question, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (i) above, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Bank, by a date not later than one month after the 
end of the 
corresponding quarter referred to in (ii) above, or such 
later date as the 
Bank shall request, the corresponding report 
referred to in subparagraph (ii) 
above and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views 
on the 
matter. 
(g)
Without limitation or restriction  upon the preceding provisions of this 
Section and without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 
below, the Borrower shall ensure that the legal framework and institutions be utilized 
for the carrying out of the Project, such as the IICA Agreement and each of the 
Committee Agreements, the Communal Action Boards, Committees and Peasant Enterprise 
Zones in general, and in particular those related to the Zones to be developed under 
Part B of the Project are maintained, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.01 or 9.08, as the case may be, of 
the General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
commence the execution of the studies under Part C of the Project not 
later than October 1, 2001; 
(b)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on a date not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of the Peasant Enterprise Zones including the ones under Part 
B of the Project; and
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof, including IICA and each Committee.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the accounts to be maintained by IICA 
and each Committee, 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
Page  8
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that as a result of events which have 
occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that IICA or the Borrower will be able to 
perform their respective obligations under the IICA Agreement.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
(a)
the IICA Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and IICA 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)
the Indicative Operating Plan and Project Operational Manual have been 
issued by IICA, both in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and have been 
attached to, and made a part of, the IICA Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date of September 30, 1998 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Carlos Esguerra Portocarrero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Andrés Solimano
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultant services
2,400,000
100%
and Training under
Parts A, B.2 and C
of the Project
Page  10
(2)
Goods under Parts A
  200,000
90%
and B.2 (b) of the
Project
(3)
Cost Sharing Transfers
2,000,000
100% of each
Cost Sharing
Transfer
(4)
Operating Costs
  150,000
90%
(5)
Unallocated
  250,000
_________
TOTAL
5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures by the Project Management 
Group and each Technical Group, in respect of travel and per diem, office rental, 
materials, supplies and utilities, office and equipment maintenance and field 
materials; 
(b)
the term “Training” means trainers’ fees, rentals of training facilities, 
per diem or scholarships and study tours for trainees, and acquisition of training 
materials; and 
(c)
the term “Consultant Services” includes the services of the members of 
each Technical Group referred to in subparagraph (x) (ii) of Section 1.02 of this Loan 
Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule (the Table) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1998; and (b) payments made for 
expenditures incurred in respect of Category 3 of the Table unless the corresponding 
Pilot Zone Manual has been issued by IICA, and the Committee Agreement has been 
entered into between IICA and the Committees in question, respectively, both in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts which are not subject to prior review in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the development of: (a) a replicable 
methodology for the establishment and operation of Peasant Enterprise Zones (other 
than those to be developed under the Project) in lands specified in Chapter XIII and 
Decree 1777 as a reasonable incentive to enable the undertaking of economically sound 
and peaceful activities which are conducive to the reduction of poverty in the Zones 
in question; (b) prototype actions to protect rainforest reserves and indigenous 
peoples’ territories neighboring the Zones in question, if any; and (c) a national 
program, including priorities, budgeting and timetable, for the future establishment 
of the aforesaid Zones.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Management of Project Activities and Systematic Dissemination of 
Page  11
Lessons Learned Thereunder
Acquisition and utilization for the Project Management Group of: (a) services, 
throughout the carrying out of the Project and on a full-time basis, of a Project 
manager, an assistant Project manager and an administrator, and of a series of 
technical advisors to be hired for short-term assignments in the field as well as to 
support the concurrent monitoring and reporting functions of the said Group; and (b) 
equipment to enable the said Group to discharge its functions.
Part B:
Development of up to Three Peasant Enterprise Zones
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training and other services, equipment and 
Cost Sharing Transfers, all through the execution of Subprojects in respect of each 
such Zone for:
(a)
participatory planning and implementation of land titling efforts, 
agricultural activities and environmental protection activities, including but not 
limited to: social, environmental and indigenous peoples analyses; identification and 
management of buffer zones, land use in sensitive and indigenous peoples areas; 
resource assessments; adaptive research; social, extension and rural financial 
services; soil and water waste management planning; agricultural production, and 
marketing and commercialization analyses; and small productive investments;
(b)
local capacity building for community and economic development including 
but not limited to: social assessment of the various stakeholder community groups and 
subgroups, including indigenous peoples, women and youth, all at the Vereda level; 
formalization of leadership and administration in a framework of adequate 
participatory and conflict resolution mechanisms; and
(c)
such other activities directly related to the development of Peasant 
Enterprise Zones as may be included in the applicable Subproject.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Project Management Group for the 
development of each of such Zones, by means other than through the execution of 
Subprojects, as follows:
(a)
an environmental assessment and a social assessment for each of such 
Zones; and
(b)
establishment and operation of the corresponding Technical Group, 
acquisition of vehicles and equipment therefor, and training of its members.
Part C:
Evaluation and Strategic Design of Follow-on Actions
1.
Execution of a study on the results reasonably attributable to the Project 
activities, which will focus upon results on the ground as measured against the 
baseline of outcome indicators satisfactory to the Bank, such as accumulation of 
assets, rising of social cohesion, initiation of credit relationships with suppliers 
and number of purchase agreements with private sector buyers.
2.
Execution of a study which will analyze results of the evaluation of the 
performance and evaluation reports under the Project, and the economic effectiveness 
and financial viability of, and social, institutional, political and environmental 
constraints and incentives to, scaling up the establishment of Peasant Enterprise 
Zones and to replicate activities and models developed under the Project.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
Page  12
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn: 
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
Page  13
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin,  applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after July 15, 2013 the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Page  14
(a)
Except as provided in 2 below, goods estimated to cost $35,000 equivalent 
or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Procurement under paragraph (a) above shall be executed through standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
National Shopping Goods under Parts A and B.2 (b) of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 
equivalent, and, subject to the provisions of 4 below, goods under each Subproject 
under Part B.1 of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works Subject to the provisions of 4 below, works under 
each Subproject under Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Contracts for goods or works or services under a Subproject estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $30,000, which will involve activities in an isolated 
area, and to be procured under circumstances which correspond to the circumstances 
described in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, may be packaged to enable their 
procurement by the applicable Committee through comparison of prices or, if such 
comparison is not possible, through direct contracting of suppliers available in the 
vicinity of the area in question. The aggregate amount of contracts so procured shall 
not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $35,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for works, and for goods not governed by paragraph 
2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Part D: 
Procurement Provisions 
Governing National Competitive Bidding 
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
Page  15
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly, after the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-  and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training under Part B.2 (b) of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
The suppliers of services required under Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement 
may be selected on a single-source basis, with the prior approval of the Bank, 
whenever such supplier has experience and characteristics of exceptional worth for the 
assignment. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  16
Services for the Project Management Group and Technical Groups under Parts A and 
B.2 (b) of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
