                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29317

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43630)

                                                  ON A

                                LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                     PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2004




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
ESSD Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective as of June, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                   COP 2926 = US$ 1.00
                              US$ 0.000342 = COP 1.00

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGROPAB         Small Farmers Association of El Pato-Balsillas (Asociación de Agricultores de El
               Pato-Balsillas)
AMCOP          Municipal Association of Colonists of El Pato (Asociación Municipal de Colonos de El Pato)
AOP            Annual Operative Plan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CMDR           Municipal Council for Rural Development (Consejo Municipal de Desarrollo Rural)
COAGROGUAVIARE Agriculture Cooperative of Guaviare (Cooperativa Agrícola del Guaviare)
CORPOAMAZONIA  Amazonian Sustainable Development Corporation (Corporación para el Desarrollo Sostenible
              de la Amazonía)
DNP            National Department of Planning (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
ESAP            Social and Environmental Participative Evaluation (Evaluación Social y Ambiental
              Participativa)
FARC           Colombia Revolucionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia)
GOC            Government of Colombia
IC             Interinstitutional Committee (Comité Interinstitucional)
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICO            Organizational Capacity Index (Indice de Capacidad Organizacional)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IICA           Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (Instituto Interamericano de Cooperación
               para la Agricultura)
INCODER       Colombian Institute for Rural Development(Instituto Colombiano de Desarrollo
              Rural)
INCORA         Colombian Land Reform Institute (Instituto Colombiano de Reforma Agraria)
INDERENA       Colombian Natural Resources Institute (Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
JAC            Local Community Action Board (Junta de Acción Comunal)
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
LIO            Local Implementing Organization (Organización Comunitaria Ejecutora)
MADR           Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural)
MC             Management Committee (Comité Directivo)
MAVDT         Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (Ministerio de Ambiente,
              Vivienda    y Desarrollo Territorial)
MOP            General Operational Manual (Manual Operativo General)
MOZ            Zone-Specific Operational Manual (Manual Operativo Zonal)
NBF            Not Bank Financed
NBI            Nikkei Bond Index
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGB            National General Budget (Presupuesto General de la Nación)

NGO            Nongovernmental Organization
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PEA            Project Executing Agency
PEZ            Peasant Enterprise Zone (Zona de Reserva Campesina)
PLANTE         Program for Substitution of Illicit Crops, IDB (Programa Nacional de Desarrollo
              Alternativo)
PMU            Project Management Unit (Grupo de Manejo de Proyecto)
POAT           Environmental Use Plans (Planes de Ordenamiento Ambiental del Territorio )
PPZRC          Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo de Zonas de
              Reserva Campesina o Proyecto Piloto de Zonas de Reserva Campesina)
SDP            Sustainable Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible)
SINCHI         Amazonian Institute for Scientific Investigations (Instituto Amazónico de Investigaciones
              Científicas )
TG             Technical Group (Grupo Técnico)



                           Vice President:         David de Ferranti, LCRVP
                          Country Director         Isabel M. Guerrero, LCC1C
                 Sector Manager/Director           John Redwood, LCSES
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Natalia Gómez, LCSER

                                         COLOMBIA
                        Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      33

Project ID: P053243                                                  Project Name: Peasant Enterprise Zones Development
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Natalia Gomez                                           TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project             L/C/TF Number: SCL-43630
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (74%); Central
                            government administration (26%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Other rural development
                            (P); Land management (P); Indigenous peoples (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/10/1997                                     Effective: 09/30/1998                09/30/1998
     Appraisal: 03/06/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/15/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Colombia/Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
                      Other Partners:      Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation-IICA, National Department
                                           of Planning-DNP, Colombia Rural Development Institute-INCODER, Ministry of
                                           Environment, Housing and Territorial Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood                                   Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Natalia Gomez
ICR Primary Author:             Natalia Gomez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Project's objective was to develop a replicable methodology for the establishment and operation of a
Peasant Enterprise Zone, PEZ (Zona de Reserva Campesina), in areas of colonization affected by violence
and illicit activities, and of prototype actions to protect rainforest reserves and nearby indigenous
territories. The PEZ would be established in three zones, El Pato-Balsillas in the Department of Caquetá,
Calamar in the Department of Guaviare and a third zone to be identified (Cabrera, in the Department of
Cundinamarca, was added to the Project after two years of initial operations). It was expected that these
three cases would provide the experience to develop a model and national program proposed for
government consideration. Success was defined as: (a) achieving agreement among stakeholders in the
communities that are exercising management capabilities, regularly planning development priorities,
gaining access to state, NGO, and private sector development assistance, and enjoying greater security in
their lives; and (b) achieving agreement among authorities and third parties that economic, fiscal, and
environmental issues are being regularly addressed, and are prepared to scale the experience up to other
regions.

These objectives need to be assessed taking into consideration the strategic context presented in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No.17107 for Colombia, dated October 15, 1997): (i) more than 40 years of
continuing flight of landless poor from the interior of the country to the Amazon and Orinoco basins, where
they have cleared land for farming and survive through subsistence cropping, selling timber, raising cattle;
(ii) lack of power of colonists to defend their occupancy and to attract the basic development services that
would help stabilize newly settled communities; (iii) presence of armed conflict and illicit crops; and (iv)
little presence or control of the State in these areas. The result was a "moving" frontier economy,
inexorably replicating poverty and displacing colonists toward further destruction of forest and water
resources. The PEZ approach showed promise for regulating the advance of the agricultural frontier, and
was an opportunity to develop models for increasing local autonomy and conflict resolution, in a context of
support for productive subprojects that could contribute to the adoption of sustainable practices.

The Project responded well to both the CAS and to priorities of the National Government. The CAS
specifically called for new and innovative operations that would develop and reinforce cross-sectoral
approaches to peace and civil coexistence. Its emphasis on reduction of poverty and promotion of peace
through strengthening of local organizations and communities, and support of local governance and
sustainable production, reflected the twin objectives of the Bank's CAS. Colombia's national government
in 1994 authorized the Peasant Enterprise Zone concept as a tool for agrarian reform (Law 160, 1994)
where land markets do not exist. However, the institutional framework and regulations for establishing
PEZs were not developed until 1996, in response to demands, including massive marches by campesinos.
By providing better access to land, as well as services and development opportunities, by achieving
effective participation of rural communities in development programs, and by supporting more rational
natural resource management at the agricultural frontier, PEZs were expected to stabilize the peasant
economy, contribute to peace consolidation, reduce incentives for violence and foster social justice and
democratic participation. The objective focused on learning and local capacity building which was realistic
given the pioneering nature of the Project for both the Bank and the Government. Nevertheless, the
development objective under-estimated both the complexity of the political, social, and economic dynamics
of the areas, the time required to develop working relationships and trust in the communities and begin to
implement Project activities, and the capacity of the local and community-based organizations.

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                     - 2 -

N/A. The original development objective remained unchanged through the life of the Project.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project financed three main components: A. Project Management; B. Peasant Enterprise Zones
Development, and C. Evaluation and Strategic Design and Follow-on Actions.

Total Project Cost. This amount is the sum of the World Bank Loan plus cofinancing.: US$ 6,500,000

A.      Project Management.

This component included the set-up of a Project Management Unit (PMU) responsible for overall Project
coordination, monitoring and administration. Implementation of this component would enable GOC and
other stakeholders to systematically learn from the experiences of the various PEZ. Under this component
the Project financed technical assistance, equipment, and incremental operating costs.

Total cost: US$650,000; 10% of Project total, all Bank-financed.

The PMU provided administrative and financial services, conducted annual planning processes, developed
the Project's operative manuals, supervised Project execution, oversaw the work of the local implementing
organizations (LIOs) in each Zone, provided technical assistance, and designed and implemented a
monitoring and evaluation system. The PMU staff included a director, an administrator, and experts in
monitoring and evaluation, rural development, and community and institutional development. It also hired
consultants for specific assignments. The Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation-IICA was
sub-contracted out by the Borrower as technical cooperation agency responsible for administrative and
fiduciary tasks.

B.      Peasant Enterprise Zones Development.

This component included: (i) participatory planning and implementation of land titling, agricultural
production activities and environmental protection initiatives; (ii) local capacity building for community
and economic development; (iii) social and environmental assessments of each PEZ; (iv) establishment of
technical groups in each PEZ; and (v) technical assistance to the PMU for the development of each PEZ.
The Project financed technical assistance, training, equipment, incremental operating costs, and grants for
small pilot subprojects.

Total cost: US $5.3 million. 80% of Project total, with $3.7 million in Bank financing and $1.6 million in
national counterpart funds.

Under this component, in each PEZ, the Project transferred funds to local implementation organizations
(LIOs) for the execution of demand-driven subprojects in small-scale infrastructure, agriculture,
environment and social capital building. Particularly, under (i) above, the Project financed the design and
implementation of land use plans (POATs) and land titling in the pilot zones. Under (ii) above, the Project
financed institutional capacity strengthening of local implementing organizations (LIOs) and other
community-based organizations, and financed community development workshops. Under (iii) above, the
Project financed the design, testing and application of the social and environmental participatory
assessment (ESAP) in the three PEZ, and the update of the PEZs Sustainable Development Plans. Under
(iv) above, the Project financed the operation of Technical Groups in each PEZ. Under (v) above, the



                                                    - 3 -

Project financed financial and technical assessments of subprojects; technical assistance for the
commercialization of PEZ products and extension services for the adoption of sustainable production
practices.

C.       Evaluation and Strategic Design of Follow-On Actions.

This component included an end-of-Project development impact assessment and strategic design study to
enable the GOC to apply the concept of PEZ on a wider scale based on sound economic, social and
environmental criteria.

Total cost: US$650,000; 10% of Project total, all Bank financed.

Under this component an external evaluation of the Project was contracted with an independent academic
institution. Other studies financed under this component include, the study on Project's impact on
indigenous communities and territories next to PEZs. Other outcomes of this component were the Project's
monitoring and evaluation system and subproject ranking tool, the dissemination of Project's methodology
useful for adoption and replication, such as PEZ characterization studies (monographs), web page,
institutional video and the publication of tools and methods developed by the Project.

The Project components were well designed, with clear results linked coherently to the Project's
development objective. The design envisioned a process in which environmental and social analysis,
sustainable development planning, and environmental land use planning, would set the stage for
prioritization and selection of sustainable production and environmental protection subprojects. Capacity
building through the provision of technical assistance and the implementation of community-driven
subprojects executed by local implementing organizations, following a "learning-by-doing" approach,
paved the way for continuing learning and strengthening of community organizations. Supporting local
self-governance, particularly through flexible decision-making procedures that delegate authority to the
level closest to the community, resulted in empowered community organizations. A monitoring and
evaluation system was conceived for assessing impact and results, including a Project's external
development impact assessment.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components remained unchanged through the life of the Project. However, the actual budget
spent per component varied slightly in comparison with the budget programmed in the PAD. This,
however, did not amount to a restructuring of the original components or a change in Project objectives.

Components actual costs (100% Bank financed):

A. Project Management: $865,000
B. Development of Peasant Enterprise Zones: $2,956,000
C. Evaluation and Strategic Design and Follow-on Actions: $340,000

A cancellation total of US$836,302 from the proceeds of the Loan at Project's closure, affected mainly
Component B, where a larger number of subprojects could have been executed. Time constraints, local
implementation capacity and intensification of the armed conflict, were the main factors hindering
implementation of more subprojects at the local level. The Project contributed to the organization of a bank
of subprojects that in total comprised 531 community-identified subprojects. However, not all of them were
expected to be financed by the Project, nor to be executed during the Project's implementation period.


                                                     - 4 -

Before Project's closure, 145 subprojects were approved and 122 were actually implemented and
completed. The cancellation of the remaining balance of the proceeds of the loan at Project closure, did not
affect the main achievements of the Project which were the development of a replicable methodology for the
establishment and development of PEZ, and the execution of prototype interventions in several areas that
resulted in demonstrative subprojects to be replicable by community organizations in the future.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

At the time of the Project design, it was not required to establish a rating for quality at entry.

The Project objectives were consistent with the Colombian Government priorities and strategy. This
Project reflected the highest priority on Colombia's development agenda, the reduction of poverty. The
specific poverty issue identified in the PAD was the continuing flight of landless poor from the interior of
the country to the Amazon and Orinoco basins, where they have cleared land for farming and survive
through subsistence cropping, selling timber, and raising cattle.         There have been distinct waves of
colonization, and the colonists include both relatively long-standing communities and new settlers.
Colonists in general lack the power to defend their occupancy and to attract the basic development services
that would help stabilize newly settled communities. The result is a "moving" frontier economy, inexorably
replicating poverty and displacing colonists toward further destruction of forest and water resources.
Colombia's 1991 constitution established the precept that the state is to provide conditions for improving
the incomes and quality of life of the rural landless poor. In 1994, the GOC established the policy and legal
framework for accomplishing this through its Agrarian Reform Law (Ley 160 de 1994). Its two main
instruments were a market-based land redistribution program where land markets exist, and the creation of
Peasant Enterprise Zones in areas where land markets do not exist. PEZs were expected to contribute to
peace consolidation, reducing incentives for violence and fostering social justice and democratic
participation, by providing better access to land, as well as services and development opportunities, by
achieving effective participation of rural communities in development programs, and by supporting more
rational natural resource management.

At the time of Project design, the Government had decreed the first PEZ in response to campesino demands
in 1996. But there was no institutional and regulatory framework for implementing the policy, and a
scarcity of proven methodologies for formulating sustainable development alternatives, securing
development investment resources, providing for technical assistance to commercialize production, and
establishing rational natural resources management systems. The Project contributed to the establishment
and development of the first three PEZs in the country. The Borrower adopted a "learning and innovation"
approach to formulating a model to achieve these objectives. The strategy entailed empowering colonists to
join in identifying development priorities for the PEZs, formulating sustainable development plans, securing
financing from public institutions and nongovernmental organizations, and implementing and evaluating
development subprojects.

Correspondence with CAS. The Project fit well within the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No.
17107 for Colombia; dated October 15, 1997). Its emphasis on reduction of poverty and promotion of
peace through strengthening of local organizations and communities, and support of local governance and
sustainable production, mirrored the main objectives of the CAS. This reflected the highest priority on
Colombia's development agenda, the reduction of poverty. The CAS specifically called for new and
innovative operations that would develop and reinforce cross-sectoral approaches to peace and civil
coexistence.

Design and preparation in accordance with Bank's experience. The Project provided support to the GOC



                                                      - 5 -

to develop a model for PEZ which systematically builds on social capital, is responsive to initiatives taken
by community-based organizations and demonstrates the efficacy of locally initiated, designed and managed
development investments. The Project built on the Bank's experiences with the earlier Colombia Caquetá
Land Colonization I and II Projects, Colombia Natural Resources Management Project and the Pronatta
program, and with two projects that were under preparation at the same time, Magdalena Medio Regional
Development Project and Land Reform Project. Particularly lessons included the importance of shifting
from promoting colonization to consolidating and making secure already functioning colonist communities,
from centralized planning and control to local participation to establish priorities and manage interventions,
and from forest clearing to creating more sustainable production systems and management of remaining
natural resources. Other lessons from Bank's support for development in situations of conflict indicated that
programs work best when there are cohesive communities with strong social capital and cooperate in their
mutual development, where flexible procedures for taking decisions are established, where authority is
delegated to field-level stakeholders to design investments, and where partnerships for development are
promoted.

The PAD's social analysis summary (Annex 13 of the PAD) suggested the following hypothesis to be tested
during the life of the Project considering its learning and innovation nature:
·       Strengthening civil society reduces incentives for resolving conflict through violence.
·       Organized communities influence the decisions of armed groups.
·       Decentralization of decision making and responsibilities from national to local level and from
public institutions to community organizations for the       design and execution of their own development
projects, help reduce unilateral control by armed groups.
·       Improving the material and cultural conditions of peasant families will turn them into allies in the
protection and sustainable use of the surrounding            natural resources and protected areas.
·       Land regularization in the agricultural frontier will prevent further expansion of the colonization
process with consequent protection of rainforest biodiversity.

The Project provided a richer understanding of the assumptions behind the hypothesis, and shed light on the
key enabling conditions under which each hypothesis might prove to be true. The Project's intervention
model demonstrated that: (i) the decentralization of the decision making process and transference of
responsibilities from national level to local community organizations for the selection and execution of their
own development subprojects, was successful in empowering local stakeholders; (ii) community-driven
processes were respected by the armed groups operating in the zones; (iii) the control of Bank resources by
local, non-governmental organizations (at a level not previously attempted in Colombia), created a space in
which local communities strengthened democratic processes, applied transparent rules and avoided
corruption, building responsive local organizations that, at the same time, were respected by irregular
armed groups; and (iv) the tools and processes applied throughout the Project (e.g., ESAP, POATs,
Operating Manuals) were effective in building local confidence and skills, and were also effective in
resolving conflicts among different communities and diverse interest groups. In sum, the Project validated
the hypothesis in its area of influence as far as the communities were able to work together towards
common goals and avoid the interference of armed groups in its internal affairs regarding the management
of the Project. However, the expectation that the Project and the communities would have an impact on the
armed conflict per se was overly optimistic, perhaps motivated by the climate created by the peace
negotiations at the time of Project preparation. The factors affecting the armed conflict are well beyond the
context of the PEZs areas and out of the control of local communities. The Project, however, contributed to
the mitigation of the impact of the conflict on vulnerable populations.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Outcome: Satisfactory.


The overall Project outcome and achievement of its objectives as stated in PAD (as defined in the Project
Appraisal Document Report No. 17991-CO, dated June 5, 1998) are rated as satisfactory. Project
objectives were achieved despite worsening security conditions in parts of the Project area and unexpected
difficulties due to internal and external factors (detailed in Section 5).


Main achievements are as follows:


l The Project developed a replicable methodology for the establishment and operation of Peasant
    Enterprise Zones in colonization areas affected by violence and illicit activities. It also developed a set
    of prototype actions to develop economic and productive subprojects, to protect the environment and
    rainforest reserves and to strengthen the capacities of community-based organizations.


l Three pilot PEZs were established and demonstrated the effectiveness of investing in local decision
    making and management in conflict areas in order to build confidence between the communities and the
    State. The participatory intervention model demonstrated benefits in building social cohesion. The
    learning-by-doing approach, proved useful in strengthening local management capacities and in
    promoting the adoption of sustainable production technologies.


l The Project addressed the local demand for land titling, developed cost-effective subprojects that show
    substantial promise to improve the economic conditions of beneficiary families, and that enhanced
    communities awareness of environment conservation and management of natural resources.


l It strengthened social capital in the PEZ communities by providing a framework and clear "rules of the
    game" and transparent processes for communities to participate in local development planning,
    including the prioritization, selection, implementation and monitoring of subprojects.


l The Project produced tools and methods for assessing institutional capacity and Project and
    subprojects performance (see Section 4.2 below). It also provided a model for including environmental
    and social criteria in land use planning and titling.

These Project outcomes represent a substantial success in terms of community organizations exercising
management capabilities, regularly planning development priorities and gaining access to strategic
partnerships to continue the development agenda. 122 subprojects were implemented and completed under
the Project, but the implementation -following the Project's intervention model- of the remaining portfolio of
subprojects totaling 531 in the three PEZs, is the objective of the communities after the Project's closure.
These outcomes and lessons are also highly relevant to the current CAS and national priorities for peace
and development work in rural areas. The knowledge gained through this Project, particularly about
appropriate design, selection, and management of locally driven sustainable subprojects will be broadly
applicable by the recently created Colombian Institute of Rural Development (INCODER), and will be
integrated into plans for 14 additional Rural Development Zones and Special Rural Development Zones. In



                                                       - 7 -

addition, the three pilot PEZs will continue to receive attention from INCODER as priority areas of
intervention. Though the new administration decided not to adopt a PEZ program at the national level, the
concept of special development zones, and integrated peace and development projects in rural areas, remain
vital, and has committed to transfer the methodology and learning from this Project to those efforts.
Particularly, the methods, systems and tools developed by the Project (such as the institutional capacity
index, the monitoring and evaluation indexes, and the subprojects ranking tool), will serve as a framework
for the follow-on Bank-financed Peace and Development Project, as well as in the European
Union-financed Peace Laboratories Projects in various regions of the country.

Details of the achievement of each of the Project's objectives are provided in Annex 1.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A.      Project Management.        A PMU was set up in IICA with overall responsibility for Project
coordination, monitoring and administration. Project management was rated as satisfactory throughout
implementation, with the exception of a six-month period in 2000 when implementation activities
deteriorated as a result of the resignation of the first Project director and technical team, related to an
unresolved conflict in one of the PEZs. The team was rebuilt and management was again rated satisfactory
at the next supervision mission. Key outputs of this component included:

    - Establishment of clear and transparent rules and procedures. These rules were codified in a General
    Operating Manual and in Zone Specific Operating Manuals, which themselves became a tool of
    community empowerment as local organizations developed skills in working in this open and
    accountable manner. The PMU also coordinated and consolidated annual operating plans (AOPs) that
    guided Project execution, taking into consideration local priorities defined in a participatory manner by
    local communities.

    - Technical support to the communities and local implementing organizations (LIOs). LIOs
    implemented annual plans of action; organized the prioritization and selection of subprojects; and
    executed, monitored and evaluated subprojects. LIOs also managed financial resources and presented
    statement of expenditures to the central level and to Project beneficiaries. The Project was structured so
    that each LIO and other community organizations receive assistance from the PMU and also from local
    technical advisors organized as a Technical Group (TG) in each PEZ. The PMU through IICA
    contracted specialized technical assistance to strengthened LIO's capacities and three individuals to
    serve as the core of the TG (a director, an administrative/financial expert, and a rural development
    expert).

    Institutional development of decentralized agencies. IICA transferred resources to the LIOs in
    accordance with activities approved as part of annual operating plans, transferring at the same time
    fiduciary responsibilities to the local level and making community-based organizations accountable
    before their community and the Borrower. Democratic processes and local self-governance were
    fundamental both to the sustainability of the economic development process, and to the linkage of peace
    and development, by installing community responsibility and confidence to exercise local leadership in
    establishing norms for civic life.

    Methodologies and tools for development of Peasant Enterprise Zones, and for sustainable rural
    development more generally.       The Project developed and tested methods for participatory processes
    that helped rural residents identify their own priorities and opportunities. Main products included a: (i)
    methodology for participatory assessment and planning; (ii) a general operating manual and



                                                    - 8 -

    zone-specific operating manuals as normative instruments for the community-driven prioritization,
    selection, execution and supervision of subprojects; and (iii) a process and format for producing annual
    operating plans. The Project also produced management tools useful to community development
    projects more broadly. These include: (i) an organizational capacity index; (ii) a monitoring and
    evaluation system for managing and supervising community subprojects; and (iii) a subprojects ranking
    tool. Although the monitoring and evaluation system only became fully operational in the third year of
    the Project, the system resulted in a valuable tool for community learning, and for capturing lessons
    from subprojects under implementation.

B. Peasant Enterprise Zone Development. Implementation progress was rated as satisfactory for most
of the Project period, and throughout the final two years. Outputs included:

    - Democratic selection by the local communities of the implementing organization (LIO) in each PEZ
    and strengthening of community based organizations. In El Pato-Balsillas (Caquetá), the Community
    Action Council Coordinating Committee was selected by the community to serve as the LIO. In
    Calamar and Cabrera, a cooperative (Calamar) and a syndicate of small farmers (Cabrera) became the
    LIOs. Each LIO entered into a contract with IICA for carrying out local planning and subproject
    selection in accordance with the established procedures, and for monitoring compliance. LIOs helped
    develop Zone-Specific Operating Manuals that formed the "rules of the game" for transparent
    development processes. Technical responsibility was shared with local technical groups consisting of a
    director, an administrator, three representatives of the LIO, and a representative of INCORA. The
    learning-by-doing approach contributed to the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the LIOs
    which were accountable for subproject's management at the local level.

    - Implementation of subprojects supporting small-scale infrastructure development, agricultural
    production, organizational strengthening, environmental protection and natural resources
    management. Local communities used these new processes and rules of the game to identify 531
    potential subprojects, of which 145 were approved and 122 were completed by the time of Project
    closing. A diverse portfolio of subprojects, duly identified and designed by community organizations,
    comprised 45% in community infrastructure; 26% supporting productive activities, 13% in improving
    local organizations capacities, and 15% environmental activities. 80 to 90 percent of the subprojects
    supported activities directed toward reducing poverty. On average, 184 families benefited per
    subproject, at a cost of roughly $41.50 per family. In Cabrera, women's groups in particular benefited
    from subprojects, while in Calamar, youth groups were the main beneficiaries of subprojects, and small
    producers in El Pato-Balsillas. Environmental protection can be measured in terms of the preparation
    of sustainable development plans, land use plans, adoption of organic and other sustainable agricultural
    technology (e.g., minimum tillage) and implementation of reforestation and watershed conservation
    subprojects; in addition, environmental education programs were developed in the PEZs. In total, 17
    environmental subprojects were implemented.

    - Regularization of land holdings and land titles. Some 570 land titles were granted to family
    agricultural units through the life of the Project.        There was progress toward incorporating
    environmental criteria into land titling processes. With counterpart funds, INCORA invested about
    $1.4 million in the acquisition of land through a market-based approach (three farms were purchased in
    the PEZ of El Pato-Balsillas, benefitting more that 100 families) and granted several titles in both El
    Pato-Balsillas and Calamar zones. The transfer of Project methodologies and tools to INCODER
    represents an opportunity for continued efforts to develop better integration of environmental protection
    with agrarian reform in the next generation of rural development and peace projects.



                                                    - 9 -

   - Establishment of technical assistance programs for rural development and environmental
   protection. Technical Groups were established in each PEZ, and LIOs received technical assistance,
   training, equipment, and incremental operating costs, in addition to funds transferred for subprojects.
   After the completion of a key study on promising products in each PEZ, technical assistance was
   provided to small producers in the definition and implementation of a commercialization strategy. 60
   small producers of El Pato-Balsillas zone benefitted from apprenticeships in other zones.

   - Access to additional sources of financing for community-based development subprojects. The
   amount of counterpart resources contributed to local subprojects by LIOs was more than double what
   was expected at Project design. Over the life of the Project, communities themselves contributed
   11.8-18.5 percent of the total costs of subprojects (an average of 15% across the three pilot zones).
   About 6 percent of the total subproject financing came from sources other than the Project or the
   community (including municipal financing). This amounted to some $90,000 in Calamar and $13,000
   in Cabrera. In El Pato-Balsillas, subproject implementers were not able to access funds beyond those
   provided by the Project and recipient communities. However, other public institutions/programs (Social
   Solidarity Network, Ministry of Environment, Corpoamazonia and                  PLANTE) contributed to
   INCODER's market-based land redistribution project in this PEZ with an amount of $170.000 in
   complementary programs (food security and environmental management). All these additional sources
   of financing represent a significant achievement, given the poor institutional and financial offer in these
   zones, and the continuity of the conflict that provides disincentives to local investments.

C. Evaluation and Strategic Design of Follow-On Actions.

   Monitoring and Evaluation System. It took some time to establish a fully functional monitoring and
   evaluation system that was both appropriate to the context and useful for management. During the first
   stages of Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation efforts were partially useful, hindered
   mainly by the lack of data and a design that was overly complex. However, these problems were
   worked out and by the Project's third year, the monitoring and evaluation system was fully functional
   and represented one of the Project's most important methodological contributions. In particular, an
   innovative and efficient subproject monitoring and ranking tool proved effective in consolidating
   Project results and lessons. This system and tools have been disseminated to other projects and has
   been particularly useful in the design of the Peace and Development Project's monitoring and
   evaluation system.

   External Evaluation. A final external evaluation of the Project's impact and results, including a survey
   of Project beneficiaries perceptions, was completed at the end of 2003. Principal findings included:

       (i) The establishment of three PEZs, following a decentralized and participatory model of
             intervention in these zones, was an important accomplishment of the Project. Establishing three
             PEZs was only a conceptual figure in the Colombia Agrarian Reform Law at Project design.
       (ii) The decentralized and participatory model for the development of PEZ operationalized by the
             Project proved to be effective in empowering communities with autonomy and capacity to
             engage in the development of Peasant Enterprise Zones.
       (iii) Empowering community-based organizations to manage financial resources, and making them
             accountable before their communities for the investments, resulted in a powerful tool for
             avoiding corruption and ensuring a transparent and efficient use of public funds. Beneficiary
             Committees promoted by the Project proved to be an effective mechanism for social control of



                                                    - 10 -

             public expenditures.
        (iv) Subprojects supported by the Project contributed to reducing rural poverty, strengthening
             institutional and organizational capacities and in building social capital at the local level.
             Subprojects also addressed community priority initiatives defined by locally-based
             organizations.
        (v) The Project lacked an integrated planning and management system. Nevertheless, the
             individual instruments designed and tested by the Project, (e.g., Operative Manuals,
             Zone-Specific Operative Manuals, Environmental and Social Participatory Assessments,
             Institutional Capacity Index, Land and Environmental Use Plans), are important
             methodological contributions. It is critical that the government (particularly INCODER)
             adopts these tools when establishing and developing other PEZ and other special rural
             development areas.
        (vi) The Project resulted in an important learning experience demonstrating that it is feasible to
             work with the communities in the midst of the conflict; despite the adverse security conditions,
             it is feasible to set the institutional grounds and organizational capacities to promote rural
             development.
        (vii)     The end of Project activities is a matter of concern in territories where the armed conflict
             continues and the presence of the State continues to be weak. However, the capacity built in
             community-based organizations is a key factor for sustainability and continuity of the
             development process in these territories.

    Other outcomes. The required study of the Project's relation with nearby indigenous areas was carried
    out. It examined the effects of agricultural commercialization, environmental conditions, and food
    crops, and found no adverse impacts of the Project in these communities, nor in their territories. Other
    results from this Component, include: a Project's web page which was installed and operating in
    INCODER; a Project institutional video; and a Project's final document, which includes the PEZs
    conceptual and operative framework, the PEZs methodology, Project lessons and results, and main
    tools user manuals.

Details of the achievement of each of the Project's objectives are provided in Annex 1.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable to a Learning and Innovation Loan.

The Project's final evaluation (see main findings in above section) documented that subproject investments
were cost-effective in terms of the investment and expected economic benefit for participating families. Of
the 59 projects examined for effectiveness and efficiency of implementation by the final evaluation, 50 were
rated efficient (achieving results within the projected time period) and 48 as effective (achieving results
equal to or surpassing those projected at design). The median size of subprojects was US$7,000 and the
median number of families benefited per project was 184. The average monetary investment per family
benefiting was $41.50, a highly effective investment in terms of ratio of costs and benefits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable to a Learning and Innovation Loan.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Strengthening of local institutions and community-based organizations in the PEZs was one of the Project's


                                                     - 11 -

most important accomplishments. The technical capacity and social capital at the end of the Project was
demonstrably more developed that it had been at the beginning. The application of the organizational
capacity index (ICO) to relevant community-based organizations in the three PEZ (28 in Cabrera, 7 in El
Pato-Balsillas and 15 in Calamar), provided an institutional characterization of the organizations (legal
nature, territorial coverage, number of associates), and information on their technical capacities (facilities,
business techniques, management, financial and administrative skills), and strategic capacities (planning,
communication, monitoring and evaluation). The overall assessment of the community-based organizations,
contributed to the design and implementation of a capacity building strategy for these organizations,
resulting in a 63% increase in their organizational capacity as indicated the application of the ICO in a
second round. The innovations introduced through the Project, including the participatory social and
environmental analysis (ESAP), the participatory selection processes for choosing community-based
implementing organizations, and the selection and operation of beneficiary committees (an instrument for
local participation and social control of Project's investments), proved to be effective in building social
capital and institutional development. By the end of the Project, the LIOs all showed improvements in their
administrative and technical structures, in the qualification of their staff, in their basic operational
infrastructure, capacity to implement subprojects, and ability to support processes of local self-governance.
Other important achievements in this area include the closer relationship established between citizens and
governmental entities and the regaining of credibility of local communities in governmental interventions,
after many years of traditional centralized and ineffective programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The expansion of the armed conflict and control by the guerrilla group FARC in key parts of the Project
area, exacerbated by the breakdown of national peace negotiations in 2002, had serious consequences for
the Project in several ways. The generally deteriorating security situation caused additional displacement.
The FARC's threats against municipal governments and mayors effectively removed them as partners and
supporters of Project activities. The hope of private business and NGO investment in development did not
realize as expected, mainly explained for the continued insecurity in the zones PEZs and the lack of
presence of the State. Nonetheless, the development of methods and tools, and building community skills
and confidence in self-governance provided ongoing value justifying continued investment even in the face
of severe challenges.

Another key factor affecting implementation was the heterogeneity of the PEZs. The diversity of conditions
(geo-logistical, political, economic, human and social capital endowments) combined with the dynamic of
the armed conflict, resulted in great variation in the rhythm, timetable and cost of development activities
among zones. Getting from a promising concept to three fully realized working models, from which general
policies and operating mechanisms could be drawn, required substantially more time than the Project
allocated. Because each of the zones had unique characteristics, and the institutions involved had differing
agendas on key issues, a trust-building phase was necessary before operations could begin as programmed.
Community development is a complex undertaking even in the best of conditions. With the added elements
of extreme poverty, isolation, and armed conflict, the progress made by this Project, was considerable.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Project required a high level of cooperation, information sharing, and flexible application of policies by
key agencies at several levels: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development; Ministry of Environment,
Housing, and Territorial Development; INCORA, members of the Management Committee, and providers



                                                     - 12 -

of services such as health, education, and infrastructure.          At the Ministry levels, inter-institutional
cooperation was less than expected. This was partly attributable to budget constraints and the national
government's downsizing at a time of fiscal crisis, and partly due to the fact that structures for
inter-institutional cooperation were set up in a somewhat artificial way, and not well integrated into the
regular structures and ways of doing business in the agencies.

The Management Committee's intervention in operational and administrative matters rather than operating
at a more strategic governance level was also contributing factor, reducing the PMU's autonomy and in
some cases slowing operations. MADR's need to review and approve accounts managed by an external
agency (IICA) added another layer to the process and at some times delayed the disbursement process.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Project got off to a slow start due to the difficulty of recruiting qualified personnel, the complexity and
challenges of working in conflict zones and the ambition of the undertaking. A trust-building phase was
necessary before operations could begin as programmed. Implementation was characterized by periods of
progress and episodes of backsliding. Hiring and professional development of personnel, and development
of information management systems, could have been handled more expeditiously.

IICA needed stronger personnel to carry out it's financial management function resulting in delays in the
Project accounting and financial reporting. Normal accounting difficulties attributable to the remoteness
and inexperience of the LIOs also disrupted the flow of funds while discrepancies were resolved. However,
overall Project personnel at all levels demonstrated a high degree of professionalism and commitment,
under very difficult circumstances and this was a strong contributing factor to the Project's successes, and
to generating outcomes and lessons that could be used in future efforts.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The Project's total cost was $6,600,000, including loan and counterpart funds. The Project received fresh
counterpart funds in an amount of $182,000 and was complemented with about $1.43 million from the
investment budget of INCORA's allocated to PEZ. Component A. Project Management cost was originally
$650,000 (100% Bank financing). However, $865,000 were actually spent under this Component,
representing 13% of the Project's total cost. Component A. originally designed budget was surpassed due to
the recruitment of additional support staff not considered in the original budget in accord with PAD, but
considered necessary during Project's implementation due to the complexity of the undertaking and the need
to keep a closer supervision and support to local implementing organizations. Component B. PEZ
Development cost was $3.7 million (70% Bank financing). $2,956,000 were actually executed out of the
proceeds of the loan. $1.43 million were invested by INCORA in the 3 PEZ between 1999 and 2002 in
purchase of land through a market-based approach and in land titling programs. This represented 67% of
total Project's cost. Component C. Monitoring, Evaluation and Follow-up Actions cost was US$650,000
(100% Bank financing). $340,000 were actually spent due to the reduction of activities under this
Component (e.g., strategic design study for scaling up the establishment of PEZ). Component C. cost
represented 5.2% of total Project's cost. $836.302.34, corresponding to 13% of total Project cost or 16.7%
of total loan amount, were cancelled.

Other financing:
- Actual community cofinancing by PEZs: (i) El Pato-Balsillas: $130,000; (ii) Calamar: $90,000; and (iii)
Cabrera: $45,000
- Financing from sources other than community or Project: (i) Calamar: $95,000; (ii) Cabrera: $15,000;



                                                     - 13 -

and (iii) El Pato-Balsillas: $170.000
All these additional contributions represent a significant achievement, given the poor institutional and
financial offer in these zones, and the continuity of the conflict that provided disincentives to local
investments.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Normally not applicable for a LIL. However, it is possible to assess the sustainability of this project as
likely, based on several factors:
    ·    Community organizations are likely to sustain the transparent practices they developed to plan and
         manage local development subprojects. The locally based technical assistance teams supported by
         the Project will continue to reside in the communities which should benefit future development
         initiatives.
    ·    Local implementation organizations and other community-based organizations empowered by
         the Project are now well established and are likely to remain in leading local development
         processes.
    ·    Productive subprojects are expected to continue to generate economic returns for the participants
         and beneficiaries.
    ·    Sustainable practices including organic farming and minimum tillage techniques promoted and
         adopted as part of the technical assistance program are likely to continue to be applied and
         disseminated, since they showed preliminary positive results in terms of environment protection and
         reduction of production costs.
    ·    Methodology for the establishment and development of PEZs and instruments developed by the
         Project and lessons regarding the management of PEZs and rural development zones, are likely
         to be used by INCODER. INCODER has formally adopted the methodology and instruments for
         regular interventions in rural development areas, and has also adopted the 3 pilot PEZ as priority
         areas within its institutional mandate. However, additional technical support and training to
         INCODER staff will be required to optimize use of the methodology and instruments.
    ·    Adoption of a PEZ program at the national level is not likely at this time. This was due in part to
         differences in policy toward the guerilla and the peace process in the current administration as
         compared to the two former administrations (one involved in the planning phase of the Project and
         the other in the Project's implementation phase until mid 2002), resulting in the decision to apply
         the methodology and the diverse instruments developed by the Project into the peace and
         development work in rural areas, and to invest in extracting lessons from the Project more
         generally applicable to INCODER's work. The concept of integrated peace and development
         projects remain vital and much of the learning and outcomes from this Project will be transferable
         to those efforts, particularly to the Peace and Development Project which has already adopted
         elements of the Project's monitoring and evaluation system and the organizational capacity index.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

INCODER has adopted the three PEZ as areas of priority attention in its overall rural development
programs. The tools and instruments developed for the management of this Project have been transferred
to INCODER. Although additional PEZs are not being actively pursued, other types of special rural
development zones, including those associated with the national peace and development strategy are being
pursued. These programs also combine development with peace efforts as well as integrated development
and environmental protection. The Peace and Development Project has adopted key elements of the



                                                   - 14 -

Project's monitoring and evaluation system. The Organizational Capacity Index developed and tested by
the Project has been used in the Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project, in the
Productive Partnerships Support Project and will be used in the Peace and Development Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory.    The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the Project is
considered satisfactory. The Bank was approached by the GOC in 1996 and asked if it was interested in
supporting the operation of the concept of Peasant Enterprise Zones provided in Law 160 (the Colombia
Agrarian Reform Law), in response to the demand of peasant organizations from the Amazonian and
Orinocan river basins, that, provoked by the combination of rural violence and aerial spraying of herbicides
on their crops, mobilized marches on the capital city to seek relief. Convinced that this was a good
opportunity to work more closely with civil society, improve the poverty impact of Bank lending, and
promote environmentally sound management of natural resources in fragile areas, Bank management
agreed to take on the challenge and risks of pursuing an innovative Project in regions in Colombia affected
by violence and armed conflict. The Project's design was consistent with national priorities and with the
Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank team worked closely with the Administrative Department of the
Presidency of the Republic during Project preparation and made a significant contribution to the design of
the Project by encouraging the GOC to adopt a learning and innovation approach and helping to define the
learning priorities. The design was technically, economically, and socially sound, based on identified best
practices in rural development, particularly in zones of conflict, and was appropriately structured to
operate flexibly and adapt in response to field experiences. However, the Project proved to be overly
ambitious based on the high expectations for successful peace negotiations and the reduction of the armed
conflict. The challenge of developing effective inter-institutional coordination mechanisms should have been
foreseen (especially as there was a change of national administrations between design and effectiveness,
and another during the life of the Project) and additional mechanisms should have been developed to
address this weakness.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. One of the main concerns in approving this Project was whether the Bank would be able to
adequately supervise the Project, due to the difficult security conditions in the Project areas. Despite
worsening conditions in various zones throughout the life of the Project, the Bank conducted regular
supervision, with clear reporting of progress on both implementation progress and development impact.
PSRs were updated regularly. At times, when it was difficult to visit some Project areas, community
leaders and beneficiaries were invited to close secure locations in order to participate in Bank supervision
missions. Bank staff made consistent efforts to engage institutional partners and to assure compliance with
covenants. Key individuals remained involved throughout the life of the Project and thus were well
positioned to capture lessons and share outcomes and learning. Bank staff attended to key implementation
issues with early diagnosis of problems, regular reports of issues to be addressed, and follow-up on actions
identified as necessary. The final external evaluation offered particular praise for the flexibility on the part
of the Bank that had made it possible to develop approaches that were responsive to the unique situation of
each of the three regions but still consistent with overall policies and guidelines.

The Bank approved an extension of the Project's closing date for two years, as per Borrower's request in
December 2001. An external mid-term review was not carried out due to Management Committee delays in
hiring an external firm and later for security reasons. However, the Bank team carefully assessed the


                                                     - 15 -

Project's performance and approved the Government's request based on: (i) despite a slow start Project
implementation was on track and proceeding at high pace; (ii) there were components of the Project
methodology that still needed to be tested and applied, and activities proposed to do so were focused and
relevant (even though there were substantial advances in the consolidation of the local organizations and in
communities capacity to implement subprojects, two key activities required further development and
application: adoption of sustainable production approaches in selected localities and full implementation of
the monitoring and evaluation system); and (iii) requirements for an extension were met (even though fiscal
restrictions of the central Government slowed Project's allocations, the Government assigned the total
amount of funds required to complete Project activities, including both the loan and counterpart funds).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. The Bank was innovative and courageous in supporting this operation and despite difficult
conditions, was able to consistently provide the Project team the resources and technical support they
needed. The Bank staff and consultants produced a flexible Project that responded to Colombia's need to
develop models on which to establish and develop PEZs. The Bank's constructive and open-minded attitude
helped build an effective partnership with the MADR, IICA, DNP, PMU, TGs, LIOs and other
community-based organizations and Project beneficiaries. Consistent with the Learning and Innovation
designation of this loan, the Project was administered flexibly but remained consistent with all policies and
covenants. The overall objective of developing a replicable model was kept front and center, even when
Project implementation ran into difficulties due to security problems in the three pilot zones. The Bank's
decision to approve the extension of the Project's closing date after a careful assessment of the Project
implementation conditions proved to be a correct one.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The design was technically, financially, socially, and environmentally adequate for the
requirement of a learning and innovation Loan. Key agencies demonstrated commitment to the Project and
to providing counterpart resources and services.          During design and through negotiations, the
Administrative Department of the Presidency was the lead agency in the Colombian Government
responsible for the Project. At effectiveness, after a change in governments, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (MADR) became responsible.               The GOC wisely agreed to delegate the
administrative and fiduciary responsibilities of the Project in IICA with oversight by MADR and an
inter-institutional Management Committee.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Implementation performance was rated satisfactory throughout the Project period, with one
exception, as noted above. The Project's Management Committee was presided by the Vice Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development and composed by representatives of an inter-institutional set of public
entities (National Planning Department, Inter-American Institute for Agriculture Cooperation, Ministry of
Environment, Housing and Territorial Development and INCORA) and by one representative of the Project
beneficiary communities. The Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department provided
permanent oversight of the Project in their respective areas, fiscal and technical. The Vice-Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, in his role of Director of the Project, responded promptly to Bank
recommendations and provided support when corrective measures were needed. The Management
Committee was not fully successful in providing the strategic framework for developing cross-sectoral
collaboration and at times, dedicated too much attention to operational and administrative matters, reducing



                                                   - 16 -

autonomy of       the PMU. IICA's support remained focused mainly on administrative and fiduciary
responsibilities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. MADR's commitment to the Project was permanent, although oversight capacity was limited
mainly due to budget and staff cutbacks. This resulted in the MADR's decision to delegate more
responsibility to IICA, the Project Management Unit and the local Technical Groups for the overall Project
supervision. IICA contributed to the establishment of a technically competent Project Management Unit,
Technical Groups, and sustainable LIOs. Flow of funds and reconciliation of accounts was an ongoing
problem, although there were no adverse findings in annual audits.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. Despite the difficulties outlined above, the implementation team did achieve the development
objectives in the selected zones, established them as areas for priority attention in the ongoing national
administration of rural development, and produced tools and methodologies applicable across a range of
rural development and peace projects. The Project highlighted the difficulties of melding objectives and
programs across agencies, and over time with the succession of new administrations. The institutional
arrangements that placed operational management outside of government weakened the Project's ability to
create inter-institutional linkages and cooperation that might have brought more development resources to
the zones, and created a better climate for cross-sectoral interventions. On the other hand, this had strong
operational advantages (e.g., expediting contractual and administrative procedures, facilitating the flow of
funds to the local level, and enhancing efficiency of operations). Despite the cancellation of a remaining
balance of US$836,000 of the loan, mainly due to low absorption capacity of local implementation
organizations and the intensification of the conflict, the Project development objectives were achieved.

8. Lessons Learned

The Project developed a viable model for establishing and developing PEZs and for introducing
self-governance and locally managed sustainable development in rural areas affected by armed conflict,
extreme poverty, fragile ecosystems and lack of state presence. The tools and processes applied throughout
the Project helped to build local confidence among communities and between communities and
governmental institutions. The processes and tools employed by the Project were helpful in resolving
conflicts at the local level (e.g., competing priorities between different communities). Decentralization of
the decision making process and transference of responsibilities from national to local levels and from
public institutions to community organizations for the design and execution of their own development
subprojects, proved to be successful. Control of Bank resources by local, nongovernmental organizations
had not been previously attempted, creating space in which local communities strengthened democratic
processes.

Key lessons drawn from Project experience include:

Implications of commitment to community empowerment and local self-management
    a. Substantial time is required to develop the model of intervention. The first two years of the
        Project were mainly devoted to building the foundations upon which the model of intervention
        could be developed. Each instrument in the intervention had to be designed to first develop the
        favorable conditions for Project implementation as well as to achieve the desired results.
    b. Sequencing of interventions is important. Responding quickly to local priorities and community
        expectations is crucial in building trust and establishing the conditions needed to operate


                                                      - 17 -

        effectively. Local residents' main motivation for participation in the Project (considering decades of
        governments abandonment and lost of trust in public interventions) was to empower their
        communities through access to improved infrastructure and economic development opportunities.
        The learning agenda (which required among other things, information and baseline data) was not a
        priority for participating communities. Having raised expectations of rapid access to development
        resources, the Project could not afford to lose trust or momentum by putting those aspects of the
        Project "on hold" for the completion of studies and capacity building. Therefore, the Project
        adopted the "learning-by-doing approach" and initiated the transfer of funds for priority
        subprojects selected by the communities. Specific tools and approaches for entry and
        trust-building, and a better structure for simultaneous assessment and capacity building developed
        by the Project, will benefit other rural and peace development programs.
   c. Approaches need to be flexible and be customized in response to differences in the target areas.
        The Project demonstrated that there is not a single design or approach that can be externally
        developed and then applied in diverse zones. Each area had different characteristics, capacities, and
        priorities. The Project's design built in responsiveness to local priorities which enabled adjustments
        to local differences.
   d. Value of setting clear "rules of the game" according to explicit principles. An operative
        framework established by the general operational manual and by zone specific operating manuals,
        was key in setting clear and transparent rules of the game for Project's implementation and in
        building trust in management at the central and local levels. This helped to build a more open and
        participatory community relationships with the local, regional and national institutions and among
        community members as well, and a dynamic of accountability and respect for agreed Project
        guidelines.
   e. The "learning-by-doing" approach proved effective in building capacity. The Project validated
        the effectiveness of the "learning-by-doing" model it introduced. LIOs increased their capacity to
        manage administrative and financial functions and to execute subprojects, precisely by assuming
        implementation responsibilities and responding to GOC and community expectations, with the
        support of the PMU and TGs. On the job training and experience demonstrated that LIOs
        capacities were strengthened over time.
   f.   Value of investing in participatory processes. There was a direct correlation between successful
        outcomes in subprojects and excellent participation, and failure to achieve outcomes with
        fair-to-poor participation or lack of information about participation. Similarly, subprojects ranked
        high for participation also tended to rank higher in probable sustainability. Sustainability also
        improved in correlation to the responsiveness of the Project to locally perceived needs.
   g. Importance of making information and technical assistance available. Both the decision process
        and subproject outcomes were more satisfactory in areas where information dissemination was a
        key element of management strategy. There were also design standards that needed to be upheld to
        afford a reasonable chance for successful outcomes, requiring substantial investments in technical
        assistance and quality control. Technical assistance was less successful when it consisted of
        simple information dissemination, and more useful when technicians entered into substantial and
        ongoing dialogue with communities in the preparation, implementation, and monitoring of
        subprojects. A basic entrepreneurial capacity of the community organization and the ability to
        evaluate economic, financial, social and environmental aspects, are key elements for subprojects
        success and sustainability.

Conclusions presented in letters f. and g. of this section, resulted from the application of the subproject
ranking tool developed by the Project and comprised in the Project's monitoring and evaluation system.

Implications of working in conflict zones.


                                                     - 18 -

    a. Limited presence of government institutions. A central theme of this Project was developing
        community capacity to access resources and services offered by local, regional and national public
        agencies, as well as NGOs and eventually the private sector. However, the intensification of
        conflict existing in these zones limited both the availability of these resources and services and
        undermined 'campesinos' confidence in working with the relevant agencies.
    b. Uncertainty resulting from change in security conditions and other external factors. Security and
        public order varied considerably over time in the Project communities. This created a high level of
        uncertainty, and demonstrated the need to take into account, in the design and implementation of
        Project activities, a high probability of interruptions and failure in the normal operations of
        subprojects, and to build in flexibility to alter plans and schedules in accordance with changing
        situations.
    c. Limitations on capacity for supervision and provision of technical assistance.                  Project
        management staff's access to the zones was limited at times. Bank staff were often unable to visit
        the zones, mainly for security reasons, and often conducted supervision by convening key actors in
        departmental or the national capital. The Bank maintained close communication with the PMU and
        TGs and in all supervision missions had direct contact with representatives of local implementing
        organizations and with Project beneficiaries.

Implications of programs that cross sectoral boundaries and require inter-sectoral coordination.
    a. Inter-sectoral coordination cannot be taken for granted. It takes planning, design, analysis and
        technical support. This Project created inter-institutional committees but had no mechanisms or
        resources to address the obstacles to their working as planned. A clear understanding of the
        policies and priorities of the institutions involved, thoughtful assessment of potential incentives for
        participation, and attention to orienting and supporting the committees in their roles would all have
        been helpful. An Inter-institutional Committee was conceived as a national forum for learning and
        exchange of experience, including institutions involved in agrarian reform, rural development,
        environment conservation, both government agencies and NGOs. Its role was to assure the
        coherence of policies and support directed toward the PEZs, and generally to promote the
        commitments to develop the PEZs. The Committee had indeed functioned, although informally,
        during the design phase of the Project. However, it was never made an official body. At the local
        level, inter-institutional committees functioned until the break in the peace process at the beginning
        of 2002, which made it impossible to convene them again.
    b. Understand the costs and benefits of the institutional arrangements and implementing
        mechanisms. An innovative implementation arrangement that took this Project away from its
        "natural" government sponsors and placed it under the control of an independent agency (IICA)
        had strong advantages: expediting contractual and administrative procedures, facilitating the flow
        of funds to the local level, and enhancing efficiency of operations outside the bureaucratic
        structure. But, it also had costs. The learning agenda could have been better appropriated by the
        MADR and INCODER and tailored to their needs. It is important to note that despite the
        institutional difficulties, INCODER ultimately adopted the three zones as priority areas, and will
        continue to apply the methodological tools developed by the Project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    Translation and summary of comments from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,
    included in its entirety as Annex 8.




                                                      - 19 -

The Project originated in an intention to address the social and environmental problems associated with
spontaneous colonization and resettlement in the Andean and Amazon piedmont regions. This was of
strategic importance both to the colonists and to the state, given the destabilizing factors present in the
areas, including illicit cultivation and trafficking in narcotics, guerrilla influence, and growing poverty.
The Agricultural Reform Law No. 160/94, incorporating the concept of Peasant Enterprise Zones,
established this instrument for socioeconomic rural development.           This pilot Project supported the
establishment and development of the first three zones, and with support from experts in various
disciplines, the development of methodologies for sustainable rural development. Specific objectives were
to provide landless campesinos with access to productive land and opportunities for development; effective
participation in rural community processes of planning and implementing development; and more rational
management of natural resources in the agricultural frontier. The Project was organized as described in the
body of this report, under the leadership of the Management Committee and Management and Technical
Groups at the central level (PMU) and at the local level (TGs). The Project was implemented in accordance
with the described components.

Major achievements included:
    1. Effective participation by communities in development of their own initiatives, through adoption
        of the Project, formulation of subprojects, and strengthening community organizations to play
        various roles in rural development. This was reflected in the diverse portfolio of subprojects, duly
        identified and designed by community organizations, who in coordination with Project
        management, identified priorities for investment. 122 subprojects were implemented; 45% resulting
        in infrastructure development; 25% supporting productive activities, and 14% environmental
        activities.
    2. Development of the methodology and instruments for organizing and developing Peasant
        Enterprise Zones. This body of knowledge and tools is readily transferable to additional zones.
        Instruments of monitoring and evaluation, community participation and empowerment, as well as
        methodologies for participatory assessment (ESAP) and measuring organizational capacity (ICO)
        will be widely useful.
    3. Communities have gained confidence in the programs of the national government, despite the
        adverse climate including the presence of guerrilla in the zones and the weakness or absence of
        national institutions.
    4. Maintenance of community institutional structure and development of local leaders for
        socioeconomic development of their communities.
    5. Incorporation of environmental sustainability and natural resource protection criteria in the
        planning processes for development of the zones and of subprojects.

Lessons learned:

    1. Communities have a considerable capacity to respond to development programs when the
       implementing agencies integrate community initiatives and employ learning-by-doing structures. It
       is important to build credibility and legitimacy by recognizing the communities' socioeconomic
       interests and desire to effectuate sustainable use of natural resources, recognizing the value of
       forests not only in their protected state but also in terms of their potential production of goods and
       services.

    2. Where communities coexist with armed groups, mechanisms focused on restoring property rights
       can contribute to a reduction of conflict, but they cannot in themselves resolve the conflict.




                                                     - 20 -

Transfer of knowledge and application of results:

The Project's final external evaluation done by the Javeriana University, which benefited from the
participation of the communities involved in the Project, concluded that the pilot Project model and
methodology was extremely relevant for development of colonization zones and specifically areas on the
agricultural frontier, and shows that Peasant Enterprise Zones are a valid instrument that should be
incorporated into Colombia's policy framework for interventions in areas with predominantly untitled lands
and presence of spontaneous colonization.        MADR, through INCODER, is committed to continued
attention to the pilot Project zones, to give continuity to the process, and also assumes the responsibility to
apply the methodology and tools developed through the Project to additional zones. These would include
not only Peasant Enterprise Zones but also Rural Development Zones and Special Rural Development
Zones.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Translation and summary of comments to the final draft of the Project's ICR from DNP and IICA.

- National Planning Department
DNP's Rural Sustainable Development Unit is in agreement with the content of the draft ICR regarding the
qualitative and quantitative results achieved through the implementation of the Project, particularly with:
(a) the development and application of the replicable methodology for the establishment of a PEZ; and (b)
the implementation of prototype interventions in different areas which become demonstrative and replicable
sub-projects. We want to highlight these achievements despite the difficulties of the Project's areas and the
changing conditions. Additionally, it is important to mention that among several innovations introduced by
the Project, one remarkable feature is the transfer of investment resources from central to local levels to be
managed directly by local community-based organizations. This reduction of mediation in the management
of public resources and the implementation of financial reporting mechanisms have become a new
outstanding approach in World Bank financed operations. Finally, it would be very useful for other rural
development projects, which are executed in armed conflict areas, to identify the factors and strategies used
by the PEZ communities to "shield" the Project against the armed groups.               Specifically, how the
communities did to make the armed groups to respect the processes and initiatives promoted by the Project?
What strategies and agreements were implemented to avoid the interference of those groups in the
administration of the Project? What lessons can we learn about these strategies that can be applied in other
projects?

- IICA
We have read and revised the document which stands out as a report that reflects clearly and objectively all
the actions developed during the preparation and application of the methodology for the establishment and
development of the Peasant Enterprise Zones. Many advances were made from a methodological point of
view, as well as in the design and validation of tools during the execution of the Project, which should be
applied by other rural development projects. It is remarkable the importance given by the Bank, through
this learning and innovation Project, to the participation of beneficiaries in the decision making processes
and in the management of resources, as well as in the technical assistance required for the execution of
subprojects. It was very satisfactory for IICA, as a technical cooperation organism, having contributed to
build a methodology for the development and implementation of Peasant Enterprise Zones.




                                                     - 21 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Agreed in side-letter to Loan Agreement:

1. Increased access to external financial      100% increase over 1998 availability of      230% (Calculated as index of community
resources by Coordinating Committees of        external resources.                          subproject cofinancing). Actual community
Communal Action Boards measured                                                             cofinancing by zones:
following agreed social capital indicator.                                                  El Pato-Balsillas: $130.000
                                                                                            Calamar: $90.000
                                                                                            Cabrera: $45.000

                                                                                            Financing from sources other than
                                                                                            community or Project:
                                                                                            El Pato-Balsillas: $170.000
                                                                                            Calamar: $95.000
                                                                                            Cabrera: $15.000

2. Increased opportunities for poverty         Significant positive change as compared to   Index of Unsatisfied Basic Needs (NBI) is the
reduction measured following established       reported baseline level.                     fundamental poverty indicator; measurements
poverty indicator.                                                                          are made at regular intervals. NBI Index
                                                                                            used as indicator and measured through
                                                                                            implementation of the ESAP at beginning of
                                                                                            Project. The M&E system generated data
                                                                                            indicating that 64% of subprojects were
                                                                                            linked to achieving poverty reduction
                                                                                            objectives in terms of the NBI.

3. Reduced level of conflicts measured         50% - Fifty percent reduction as compared to The Project planned to use land titling as an
following developed conflict indicator.        baseline level                               indicator but discovered it to be unsuitable for
                                                                                            this purpose. No other indicators were
                                                                                            developed.Tools developed by the Project
                                                                                            (including Zone-Specific Operating Manuals
                                                                                            and POATs) served as conflict reduction
                                                                                            instruments. Participatory processes,
                                                                                            decentralized decision making, consensus
                                                                                            building, transparent rules of the game, and
                                                                                            local accountability, helped develop a conflict
                                                                                            reduction intervention model in PEZs.

4. Actual use of natural resources in          Substantial compliance with agreed land use POATs developed in each of the zones.
comparison with agreed environmental           plan defined as baseline.                    Project records indicate compliance.
management plan for each Peasant
Enterprise Zone.

Other impact indicators:

5. Number of eligible beneficiary families                                                  1100 families, distributed as follows:
which realize economic benefits associated                                                  El Pato-Balsillas: 500
with the implementation of subprojects.                                                     Calamar: 300
                                                                                            Cabrera: 300

6. Development of a replicable methodology                                                  The Project developed a replicable
for the establishment and operation of a                                                    methodology for the establishment and
Peasant Enterprise Zone (Zona de Reserva                                                    development of PEZ for areas of colonization
Campesina) for areas of colonization affected                                               affected by violence and illicit activities. Three
by violence and illicit activities, prototype                                               pilot PEZs were successfully established and
actions to protect rainforest reserves and                                                  demonstrated the effectiveness of investing
nearby indigenous territories, and                                                          in local decision making and management
development of a proposal for a national                                                    systems to build confidence and promote
program ready for government consideration                                                  adoption of sustainable production
based on the development of a "model" from                                                  technologies. The Project addressed the
experience in three cases, one in the                                                       demand for land titling (570 titles granted),
Department of Caquetá, a second in the                                                      and developed cost-effective subprojects that
Department of Guaviare and a third zone to                                                  show substantial promise to improve the




                                                                  - 23 -

be identified where local communities,                                       economic circumstances of beneficiary
non-governmental and governmental                                            families (122 subprojects completed). It
organizations have already agreed to initiate                                strengthened social capital in the PEZ
PEZs.                                                                        communities by providing a framework and
                                                                             clear "rules of the game" for open and
The Project will be considered successful                                    transparent processes leading to
when stakeholders in the community agree                                     prioritization, selection, implementation and
that they are maintaining their management                                   monitoring of development processes. The
capabilities, are regularly planning and setting                             Project produced tools and methods for
their development priorities, are gaining                                    assessing institutional capacity and project
access to regular support from existing state,                               and subprojects performance. It provided a
NGO and private sector programs, and are                                     model for inclusion of environmental and
enjoying a greater level of security in their                                social criteria in land use planning and titling.
lives.                                                                       Key elements of the developed methodology
                                                                             include: (a) participatory social and
                                                                             environmental assessments; (b) regional
                                                                             plans for environmental land use; (c)
                                                                             strengthening of local institutions; and (d)
                                                                             participatory processes for identifying,
                                                                             selecting, implementing, monitoring, and
                                                                             learning from sustainable production and
                                                                             environmental protection subprojects.

                                                                             The Project developed tools for application of
                                                                             the methodology including:
                                                                             · Methodology for Participatory Social and
                                                                             Environmental Assessment (ESAP);
                                                                             · Institutional Capacity Index (ICO);
                                                                             · Operational Manual and Zone-Specific
                                                                             Operational Manuals;
                                                                             · Methodology and formats for Annual
                                                                             Operating Plans
                                                                             · Monitoring and Evaluation System
                                                                             · Subprojects evaluation and ranking tool

7. Proposals to extend model and prototype                                   Project outcomes and lessons relevant to
actions to new regions are received                                          current national priorities for rural
                                                                             development and peace and development
                                                                             work.
                                                                             Methods and tools developed by the Project
                                                                             have been adapted as a framework for the
                                                                             follow-on Peace and Development Project, as
                                                                             well as in the Peace Laboratories projects in
                                                                             various regions of the country.
                                                                             Knowledge about design, selection, and
                                                                             management of locally driven sustainable
                                                                             development projects will be broadly
                                                                             applicable to INCODER's work, including
                                                                             application in 14 additional Rural
                                                                             Development Zones and Special Rural
                                                                             Development Zones. Pilot PEZs continue to
                                                                             receive attention from INCODER.
                                                                             Documentation of lessons learned, and PEZ
                                                                             methodology prepared for dissemination.


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Provision of juridical status to each           3                            Status granted to organizations in El
Coordinating Committee of Communal Action                                    Pato-Balsillas and Calamar by 12/31/98.
Board.                                                                       Status achieved in third zone (Cabrera) by
                                                                             2001.


Technical groups of the Project are operating 3                              Achieved
in the PEZs
Completion of zone-specific environmental       3                            Achieved




                                                          - 24 -

and social assessments


Number of approved subprojects              80               145 approved; 122 implemented


Number of executed subprojects              80               122


Subproject success rate based on results of 90%              The subproject evaluation and ranking tool of
technical audit                                              the Project's M&E system, applied to a
                                                             sample of 40 subprojects, ranked 12
                                                             subprojects as highly satisfactory; 18
                                                             subprojects as satisfactory; 5 subprojects as
                                                             fair; and 5 subprojects as unsatisfactory,
                                                             considering the combination of quantitative
                                                             criteria [efficiency (time and budget); efficacy
                                                             (outputs and beneficiaries), and effectiveness
                                                             (implementation)], and qualitative criteria
                                                             (sustainability, management, and
                                                             participation).

                                                             Project's final external evaluation, indicated
                                                             that 48 of the financed subprojects
                                                             completed by December 2002 had produced
                                                             results equal to or exceeding projections at
                                                             time of financing. This number was expected
                                                             to be increased over time since more than 40
                                                             subprojects were still in progress at that time.


Number of environmental management plans                     17
agreed
Establishment of conflict indicator                          See notes above.


Establishment of social capital indicator                    Index of Organizational Capacity developed in
                                                             2002.


Establishment of poverty indicator                           Unsatisfied basic Needs Index (NBI) used as
                                                             indicator and measured through
                                                             implementation of the ESAP at beginning of
                                                             Project. The M&E system generated data
                                                             indicating that 64% of subprojects were
                                                             linked to achieving poverty reduction
                                                             objectives in terms of the NBI.


Third PEZ established                                        Cabrera, added to Project in 2000.


1End of project




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate         Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                        US$ million     US$ million
Project Management                                           0.65               0.93         141.5
Development of Peasant Enterprise Zones                      5.30               4.49          84.7
Monitoring and Evaluation                                    0.65               0.36          53.8

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.60               5.78
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00
                           Total Project Costs               6.60               5.78
                    Total Financing Required                 6.60               5.78


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB               QCBS2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                              Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.20            0.00        0.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         2.40            0.00        2.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Grants for pilot zones            0.00           0.00         2.00            0.00        2.00
subprojects
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Incremental Oparating             0.00           0.00         0.15            0.00        0.15
costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Unallocated/Cancelled             0.00           0.00         0.25            0.00        0.25
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00         5.00            0.00        5.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)            (0.00)     (0.00)
This table refers only to the loan

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB               QCBS      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.00             0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.00         0.10             0.00       0.10
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.09)           (0.00)     (0.09)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00         2.60             0.00       2.60
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.47)           (0.00)     (2.47)
4. Grants for pilot zones            0.00          0.00         1.31             0.00       1.31



                                                - 26 -

  subprojects
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.31)            (0.00)           (1.31)
  5. Incremental Oparating                 0.00               0.00              0.32             0.00              0.32
  costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.29)            (0.00)           (0.29)
  6. Unallocated/Cancelled                 0.00               0.00              0.84             0.00              0.84
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.84)            (0.00)           (0.84)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              5.17             0.00              5.17
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
  This table refers only to the loan
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Project Management             0.65                                  0.87         0.06                  133.8
Development of Peasant         3.70         1.60                     2.96         1.54                  80.0      96.3
Enterprise zones
Monitoring and Evaluation      0.65                                  0.34         0.02                  52.3
Cancelled                                                            0.83




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/14/1998              11     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2); LEGAL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (1);
                                             SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (1);
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             COORDINATION (1);
                                             AGRICULTURE (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/14/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             SOCIAL ANALYSIS (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             ANALYSIS (1)


 Supervision
              12/04/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT
                                             (1);

              02/10/1999                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL EXPERT
                                             (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL EXPERT (1)

              12/21/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

              05/18/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

              11/06/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

              06/14/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              12/14/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 29 -

                                            INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               06/16/2002              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            INSTITUTIONAL EXPERT (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               12/05/2002              2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)

 ICR
               11/24/2003             7     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            RURAL DEVELOPMENT.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                            SCIENTIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            AGRIBUSINESS
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    40                        192.5
  Supervision                            111                         295.5
  ICR
  Total                                  151                         488.1




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Carrizosa Umaña, Ana Fernanda. Junio, 2001. Informe Final de Gestión en el Área de Desarrollo Rural e
Inversiones. *

Castro Adriana. Marzo, 2002. Resultados y Aprendizajes del Desarrollo de Subproyectos del PPZRC. *

CIPAV-Funcación Centro para la Investigación en Sistemas Sostenibles de Producción Agropecuaria.
Octubre, 2002.     Consulta sobre Sistemas de Producción:    Sostenibilidad y Reducción de Impactos
Ambientales en Tres Zonas de Reserva Campesina: El Pato Balsillas (Caquetá), Calamar (Guaviare) y
Cabrera (Cundinamarca).*

Contraloría General de la República. Mayo, 2003. Informe de Auditoría.*

Cortés, Abdón y Fajardo, Darío. 1999. Guaviare: Población y Territorio. Sinchi.

Departamento Nacional de Planeación ­ DEAGRO. Análisis del Instrumento de las ZRC como Respuesta
al Problema de Colonización.

Fajardo, Darío. Diciembre, 2000. Memorias del Taller sobre Avances Metodológicos del PPZRC.*

IICA. Mayo, 2002. Sistema de Monitoreo, Seguimiento y Evaluación (S&M) del Proyecto PPZRC.*

IICA. Junio, 2002. Perfil Descriptivo de los Subproyectos 1998-2001.

IICA. Julio, 2002. Evaluación Socioeconómica y Ambiental Participativa ­ ESAP. Metodología Aplicada
ZRC Cabrera. Caracterización Ambiental.

IICA e Instituto Sinchi. Noviembre, 2003. Evaluación de Impacto ZRC sobre Resguardos Indígenas La
Yuquera, El Itila, Barranquillita, Altamira.*

IICA, Ministerio de Agricultura y Procálculo-Prosis. 2003.    Formulación del Plan de Ordenamiento
Ambiental del Territorio de ZRC de El Pato-Balsillas.

IICA. 2000. Convenio de Cooperación Técnica.*

IICA. 2000-2003. Informes de Ejecución Parciales y Finales. *

IICA. 2000, 2001, 2002. Manual Operativo.*

IICA. 2002, 2003. Plan Operativo Anual.*

IICA. 2002. Informe de Avance y Estado Subproyectos.*

IICA. 2002. Perfil Descriptivo de los Subproyectos.*

IICA. 2003. Resultados y Aprendizajes Básicos del Desarrollo de Subproyectos del PPZRC.*

IICA. 2004. Desarrollo Comunitario en el PPZRC. Documento Metodológico.*


                                                  - 33 -

INCODER. Noviembre, 2003. ZRC, Instrumento para Lograr la Paz y Ordenar el Territorio.*

INCORA. Acuerdo 024 de 1995.

INCORA. Ley 160 de 1994.

INCORA. Procedimiento para la Constitución de una ZRC.

INCORA. Zonas de Reserva Campesina.

Medina, Eduardo; Pulgarín, Sergio Iván y González, José Jairo. Octubre, 2002. Monografías de las ZRC
de Calamar, Cabrera y El Pato-Balsillas.*

Ospina, Juan Manuel. Diciembre, 2003. Las Zonas de Reserva Campesina: Una estrategia para el Cierre
de la Frontera Agrícola y las Áreas de Amortiguación del Sistema de Parques Naturales Nacionales.*

Pontificia Universidad Javeriana. Noviembre, 2003. Evaluación Externa del Proyecto Piloto Zonas de
Reserva Campesina.*

Rodríguez, Patricia. Mayo, 2002. Validación Conceptual del Índice de Capacidad Organizacional ICO.*

Rodríguez Sergio y Fonseca, Olga. Julio, 2000. Índice de Capacidad Institucional ICI.*

Sylvestre, Angela, Nieto, Jeannette y Zarama, Juan Fernando. Sistema de Información para la Gestión de
Proyectos de las ZRC. Caso de Estudio: ZRC El Pato-Balsillas, Caquetá.*

Vargas Sarmiento, Patricia. ZRC y Titulación. Interpretaciones Prácticas de la Ley 160 de 1994.

World Bank. 1997. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Colombia.*

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$5.0 million to
Colombia for a Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project. June 5, 1998.*

World Bank. Loan Agreement for the Peasant Enterprise Zones Development Project. June 30, 1998.*

World Bank. 1999 to 2004. Project Status Reports (PSRs).*

World Bank. 1998 to 2003. Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports.*

___________________
* Documents available in IRIS.




                                                  - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

                     Presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
                                          (translated from Spanish)


 I.    Legal Basis for the Decision to Create and Develop Peasant Reserve Areas

 The economic development model adopted by Colombia implied an overall vision of the rural area and
 rural production, particularly peasant and agricultural production, as a supplementary element of
 industrial and urban development.         This vision and model for development, coupled with the
 characteristics and size of the rural area, spelled a weak State presence and limited government services
 in rural areas, especially in the more isolated regions, which were set up as national territories and forest
 reserves.

 Various forms of territorial occupation and appropriation, inherited largely from the practices of the
 Spanish colonial era and derived from the redemption of government bonds with large tracts of vacant
 land belonging to the nation, are among the factors that led to highly concentrated land ownership and
 dominance in the areas nearest to the country's centers of development.

 This concentration gave rise to dwarf and micro holdings in the Andean area (the most densely
 populated region of the country). It also prompted the expulsion or migration of large sectors of the rural
 population to the so-called national territories and other areas of Orinoquia, Amazonia, Magdalena
 Medio, Catatumbo and Urabá. These regions have a predominance of vacant or "free" land, as some
 settlers call it, where a peasant colonization process was instituted.

 Although the efforts of peasants to colonize vacant lands and forest reserves had the backing of
 government institutions, this support usually lagged behind the settlement frontier and, with few
 exceptions, these projects were structured economically on the basis of production practices imported
 from the settler's place of origin. The impact, in environmental and socioeconomic terms, was
 devastating.

 The "slash and burn" cycle used by settlers to plant temporary subsistence crops, then carve out
 pastureland, and sell the resulting "improvements" to other sectors with far more economic and financial
 capacity, led to a situation where land became increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few.
 Moreover, the dynamics of the settlement process came into conflict with the environment and with
 people's need to improve the quality of their lives.

 The location of these settlement frontiers, the precarious living conditions endured by their inhabitants,
 and the government's obvious difficulty in establishing a comprehensive and effective presence led to
 what are now familiar situations, which are further aggravated by the presence of illicit crops, drug
 trafficking and illegal armed groups who are determined to seize power by force.

 This is the context in which a set of norms was adopted to create and operate peasant reserves and to
 develop, to the extent that concerns such areas, the constitutional principles associated with the social
 and ecological functions of ownership, with participation for peasants and their need for access to land,
 as well as the need to protect the production of food and raw materials, to plan how natural resources
 are to be used and managed, to guarantee their sustainable development, and to prevent and control the



                                                   - 35 -

factors that spoil the environment.

Article 79, Law 160/94 clearly specifies the reason and need for organizing peasant settlement efforts
from a social, productive and environmental standpoint. In this sense, it serves as a basis for Article 80
of the same law, which indicates "peasant reserve areas are geographic sectors selected by the
Executive Board of INCORA, bearing in mine the agricultural-ecological and socioeconomic
characteristics of the region. The regulations for these areas shall indicate the minimum and maximum
tracts of land to be awarded in the form of family agricultural units, the number of such units that may
be awarded or owned, and the requirements, terms and obligations binding on the occupants."

In peasant reserve areas, action by the State shall be guided by these principles. It shall also obey the
rules and criteria on organization of the nation's territory from an environmental standpoint, effective
exercise of the social, economic and cultural rights of peasants, their participation in instances for
planning and regional decision-making, and the characteristics of the production systems being used. To
regulate the maximum extent of private property any individual or legal entity may own - as a whole and
undivided - in any peasant reserve area that might be established, INCORA shall proceed to acquire any
land in excess of the authorized limits, doing so by means of the procedure provided for in Chapter VI
herein, or through expropriation."

Decree 1777/96 issued regulations under Law 160 for peasant reserve areas. It indicates they can be
established in "geographic areas with agro-ecological and socioeconomic characteristics that require
ownership of rural holdings to be regulated, limited and organized so as to achieve: (i) the best possible
access to productive land, services and development opportunities for land-less peasants; (ii) effective
participation of rural communities in planning and carrying out development projects; and (iii) a more
rational management of natural resources on the agricultural frontier.

Agreement 024 of 1997 concerns the operational aspects of establishing peasant reserve areas from a
legal standpoint and outlines the criteria for selecting sectors where these areas can be created. It also
sets forth the objectives and principles that guide this effort, the exceptions, the administrative
procedures required to create them, the sustainable development plan, and the public hearing.

II.  ORIGIN OF THE PROJECT

v SettingUpPeasantReserves
The reasons for occupying areas that expand the agricultural frontier date back to the mid-19th century
when quinine, rubber, furs and other products and by-products were being extracted from the upper
Andean forests and the Amazon foothills.          These activities intensified midway through the 20th
century, when the rural Andean population was restructured through expulsion and migration - primarily
peasant - to areas of supervised land settlement or squatter take-over. This generated a cycle of
temporary settlements that multiplied settlement areas to the detriment of natural resources in
environmentally fragile and strategic regions. It also reproduced a concentration of land, in this case
primarily for extensive cattle raising.

The devastating effects of this type of colonization, which transformed forests into pastures, transferred
the slash and burn practices of Andean regions to areas with fragile ecosystems, and provoked a
concentration of land ownership, due to the poor economic results for small producers, led to a search
for ways to stem the tide of colonization and its ensuing socioeconomic deterioration for the population
and resources. Another factor was growing environmental awareness on the part of public institutions
and the general population, sparked by the peasant protests organized in the eighties as a reaction to the


                                                 - 36 -

eradication of the illicit crops that had been grown in the Amazon region and sectors of the Andes since
the mid-seventies.

The idea of peasant reserves was added to the New Agrarian Reform Act (Law 160/94) in a situation
marked by the institutional reforms of the nineties, which stemmed from the new constitution, the Rio
Summit on Environment and Sustainable Development, and the changes in policy and mechanisms for
agrarian reform. Pursuant to the law and the regulations issued under it, INCORA created several
peasant reserve areas in 1996: El Pato-Balsillas in the municipality of San Vicente del Caguán
(Department of Caquetá); Guaviare, which includes the municipalities of San José del Guaviare, El
Retorno and Calamar in the Department of Guaviare; Sur de Bolívar in the municipalities of Arenal and
Morales (Department of Bolívar); and Bajo Chembí and Comandante in the Department of Putumayo.
Later, in November 2000, the Executive Board of INCORA set up a peasant reserve in the municipality
of Cabrera (Department of Cundinamarca).

Social, economic and legal experts from the Amazon Scientific Research Institute (SINCHI) conducted
preliminary studies to support the decision by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to
contract a so-called "learning and innovation" loan with the World Bank. The idea was to provide a
methodological basis and pilot experience for the development of peasant reserve areas. The Director
General of SINCHI spearheaded this effort. SINCHI is an agency established under Law 99/1993,
which also created the National Environmental System and its institutes for research on sustainable
development.     The concept of peasant reserves is of strategic importance to settlers and the national
government at a time when the factors that threaten to destabilize the nation, such as drug trafficking in
vast areas of the countryside where there is considerable guerrilla influence and growing poverty and
unrest among peasants on the agricultural frontier, make action for socioeconomic development and
build-up in local and regional democracy imperative.

The loan was for US$5 million, with US$1.6 million in matching funds from the national government.
Eventually, the bulk of the US$1,616,196 million in matching funds (US$1,434,447) was used to
purchase and award land to peasants in the Pato-Balsillas area and to award titles to tracts of vacant
land already occupied by settlers in Pato-Balsillas (Department of Caquetá) and Calamar (Department
of Guaviare). As to the loan, US$4,161,698 was used to carry out the subprojects and to administer the
project.

v WhytheProjectisConsideredaSolution
Peasant reserve areas are conceived as a means of sustainable socioeconomic development for peasant
communities and colonists in regions of the country with large tracts of vacant land, which is precisely
where settlement occurs. Yet, as relevant as this concept may be, the country has no prior experience
with anything of this nature. When the law provided for these areas, the objectives were clear and
peasant organizations demanded that institutions be set up. This suggested the need for a pilot project,
which was planned and funded at the same time the regulations for Law 160/94 were issued.

According to policy recommendations and the guiding principles outlined in Law 160/94, peasant
reserves are intended to make room for concerted political, economic, environmental, social and cultural
action between the State and peasant organizations, to control the concentration or fragmentation of
property in zones with considerable social unrest, to encourage small rural holdings that are socially,
economically and environmentally sustainable, to stabilize land settlement on new agricultural frontiers,
and to become an instrument for territorial environmental organization.

A public policy of this scope and dimension offers a tremendous opportunity to consolidate the dynamics


                                                  - 37 -

of rural society and those of indigenous communities on the basis of social, cultural and territorial
respect. Peasant reserves are a formidable tool for guaranteeing good relations between both these
societies, with the understanding that cultural differences are assumed and the specific needs of each
group for territorial, social and cultural oneness are recognized.

As conceived in the loan, the Pilot Project for Peasant Reserve Areas is intended to produce: (a) a
replicable method for establishing and operating areas of this type (different from those to be established
under the project) on the land specified in Chapter XIII and Decree 1777, as a reasonable incentive for
the development of peaceful and economically sound activities that help to reduce poverty in such areas;
(b) prototype actions to protect tropical rain forest reserves and indigenous territories adjacent to the
zones in question, if such be the case; and (c) a national program with property, budgets and timetables
for the establishment of peasant reserves in the future.

III. THE OUTCOME AND THE LESSONS LEARNED

v Accomplishments
1. Effective participation by the community in planning and implementing its own initiatives was
possible through socialization of the project, the design of subprojects and a build-up in community
organizations for negotiations and dialogue with the various institutions and programs that support rural
development.

Community participation in the pilot project is evident in the presentation of an extremely varied
portfolio of subprojects, all duly identified, designed and planned by community organizations. These
organizations defined the investment priorities in conjunction with the Project Management Group.

One hundred twenty-two (122) zone subprojects were conducted during the five years of the project.
This includes 55 in El Pato-Balsillas, 31 in Calamar and 36 in Cabrera, with an investment of $4,393,9
million: 41% for El Pato-Balsillas, 36% for Calamar and 23% for Cabrera. The bulk of the investment
(45% of the projects) was spent on the subproject for infrastructure; 25% was used to carry out
productive projects, 16% to strengthen the community, and 14% for environmental projects.

2.   Obtaining a method or the methodological tools required to organize and develop these areas was
another accomplishment. It includes the experiences of the pilot project that are applicable to the peasant
reserves that had already been established or are in the process of being set up. The methodology is one
of the end results delivered by the executor upon conclusion of the project.

Innovative instruments applicable to similar projects were designed to measure and evaluate community
participation and empowerment. The Organizational Capacity Index (ICO) and the Participatory
Socioeconomic-Environmental Evaluation (ESAP) are two examples and are used to gauge the
administrative and management capacity of community organizations. The ICO makes it possible to
register socioeconomic parameters and to detect weaknesses in the organization's installed capacity, its
mechanisms for internal management, office techniques, the development of strategic plans, and resource
management. Once the organization's shortcomings are identified, a strategy to overcome them through
institution building is designed and implemented.

The Participatory Socioeconomic-Environmental Evaluation (ESAP) is the preliminary assessment or
diagnosis that reflects the technical-environmental components of the areas and those for an increase in
the community's social capital and institution building, which are evaluated prior to intervention in the
zone. The ESAP is also used to prioritize investment initiatives. It contemplates indicators of poverty,


                                                  - 38 -

social capital, conflict and environmental problems.

The purpose of this tool was to extract elements from the lessons learned, so they could be incorporated
into the strategies for operating future peasant reserves, based on available information about the
subprojects that were developed (e.g., infrastructure, production and strengthening the zones).

3.    The communities associated with the three zones where the project was conducted regained
confidence in government programs, despite an adverse climate created by the presence and influence of
guerrilla organizations and a weak or nonexistent government presence.

4. An institutional presence was established in peripheral zones, despite the presence of illegal armed
groups. Also, leaders were forged to manage their communities in a sustainable way, both socially and
economically.

5. Criteria on environmental sustainability and the protection of natural resources were brought to bear
in development planning for the peasant reserves and the subprojects, particularly with respect to the
forest.

v LessonsLearned
The following are the overriding lessons derived from the Pilot Project for Peasant Reserve Areas:

·     The capacity for communities to respond to development initiatives where the components and the
support provided by public agencies are defined jointly has a reference in the community initiatives
structured on the basis of training-action.

·     There is also the importance of legitimizing the presence of communities through recognition of the
lands they occupy as areas susceptible to a new form of development that combines their socioeconomic
interests with the need to make sustainable use of resources and recognizes the value of protecting forest
systems, as well as their productive potential in terms of goods and services.

·     While communities must coexist with armed groups that pretend to take over the functions of the
State, given its absence or weakness, and although mechanisms to balance and guarantee the right to
land help to reduce the ingredients for conflict, any concept or project of this type is unable to influence
the war, since the peasants are not party to the armed conflict, even though they are exposed to the
presence of illegal armed groups and see their children forcibly recruited into their ranks.

·     Executing pilot projects through units for administration and implementation that are outside the
institutions established to this effect creates problems when it comes to incorporating experiences in a
more direct and immediate way. It also results in a loss of experience acquired by team members for the
benefit of the State's institutional framework.

·     Technical and administrative support from World Bank exports is crucial to progress in initiatives
of this type, given the extent of their knowledge and the possibility of a comparison with similar
experiences in different countries and regions. Hence, it could and should be a part of pilot projects.
Again, in this case, care should be taken to avoid creating units outside the institutional framework of
the State.

v TransferoftheExperienceandUseoftheResults



                                                  - 39 -

 The outside evaluation of the Pilot Project, conducted by the Javeriana University with the participation
 of the communities in question, concluded that both the areas and the model instituted as part of the pilot
 experience are important and relevant to the development of settlement areas, specifically those located
 on the agricultural frontier. In short, the indication is that peasant reserve areas are a valid tool and
 should be part of government policy and mechanisms for intervention in areas with a predominance of
 vacant land and the presence settlements on the colonization frontier.

 Through the Colombian Institute for Rural Development (INCODER), the Ministry of Agriculture and
 Rural Development has assumed a commitment to serve the areas involved in the Pilot Project by
 lending continuity to the process. It is also committed to applying the method and instruments generated
 during the pilot stage, in order to set up or develop existing areas and those planned for the future.

 In accepting this responsibility, INCODER has made the establishment of Special Rural Development
 Zones part of its operational scheme for Rural Development Zones. This includes use of the
 methodology obtained as the main outcome of the Project. Attention provided through the Special Rural
 Development Zones implies the participation of the departments and their agricultural offices as agents
 of the Ministry of Agriculture and operators responsible for the programs of INCODER and the
 objectives of its mission.



Original version in Spanish:


                      MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y DESARROLLO RURAL

                     PROYECTO PILOTO DE ZONAS DE RESERVA CAMPESINA
                                           Informe de Gobierno

I      EXPLICACIÓN DEL PROYECTO

   Ø        Bases jurídicas que determinaron la creación y desarrollo de las Zonas de Reserva
   Campesina
   El modelo de desarrollo económico adoptado por Colombia determinó una visión del área rural y de
   la producción rural en general y especialmente de la producción agropecuaria y campesina, de
   elemento subsidiario del desarrollo industrial y urbano.

   Esta visión y modelo de desarrollo concomitantemente con las características y extensión del
   territorio determinaron a su vez una débil presencia de la autoridad y de los servicios del Estado en
   el área rural, especialmente en las regiones más apartadas que se concibieron como territorios
   nacionales y áreas de reserva forestal.

   Las formas de ocupación y apropiación territorial heredadas en buena parte de las prácticas de la
   colonización española y derivadas del pago de deudas con títulos de deuda pública redimidos con la
   adjudicación de grandes extensiones de terrenos baldíos de la nación, entre otros factores,
   determinaron alta concentración de la propiedad y del dominio de las tierras en las de las zonas más
   cercanas a los polos de desarrollo del país.

   Esa concentración origina       presencia de minifundio y microfundio en el área andina, (la más
   densamente poblada del país) y la expulsión o migración de grandes masas de población rural hacia
   los llamados territorios nacionales y otras áreas con predominio de baldíos o "tierra libre", en el
   lenguaje de algunos colonos, de la Orinoquia; Amazonía; Magdalena medio; Catatumbo, y Urabá,
   principalmente, instaurando procesos de colonización campesina.



                                                    - 40 -

Aunque los procesos y proyectos de colonización campesina de los territorios de baldíos nacionales
y zonas de reserva forestal contaron con apoyo de las instituciones del Estado, este apoyo siempre
estuvo a la zaga del avance de las puntas de colonización y salvo excepciones, se estructuraron
económicamente a partir de prácticas de producción muy propias de las áreas de origen de los
colonos, con efectos devastadores, en términos ambientales y socioeconómicos.

El conocido ciclo de explotación aplicado por los colonos, de tala, quema, siembra de cultivos
transitorios para subsistencia, instalación de pastos y venta de la "mejora" así constituida, a
segmentos con mucha mayor capacidad económica y financiera determinó procesos de
concentración de la tierra y una dinámica de avance de puntas de colonización en conflicto con la
oferta ambiental y con las necesidades de la población de mejorar su calidad de vida.

Las condiciones de ubicación de esos frentes de colonización, las muy precarias condiciones de
calidad de vida de las poblaciones de esas áreas y la manifiesta dificultad para el Estado de hacer
presencia integral efectiva, determinaron situaciones hoy bien conocidas que adquieren
características aún más críticas por la presencia de cultivos ilícitos, narcotráfico y grupos armados al
margen de la ley en pos de la toma del poder por la vía armada.

En este contexto se genera el conjunto de normas que sirven de sustento a la creación y puesta en
marcha de las zonas de reserva campesina, y que desarrollan en lo que les atañe, principios
constitucionales que hacen relación a la función social y ecológica de la propiedad, a la participación
y a la necesidad de procurar el acceso a la tierra de los sectores campesinos, así como a la
necesidad de proteger la producción de alimentos y materias primas, planificar el manejo y
aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales y garantizar su desarrollo sostenible, así como prevenir y
controlar los factores de deterioro ambiental.

El articulo 79 de la ley 160/94 establece claramente la motivación y necesidad de organizar social,
productiva y ambientalmente los procesos de colonización que adelanten las comunidades
campesinas y en este sentido sirve de fundamento a lo dispuesto en el artículo 80 de la misma ley
en donde se establece que : "Son Zonas de Reserva Campesina las áreas geográficas
seleccionadas por la Junta Directiva del INCORA, teniendo en cuenta las características
agroecológicas y socioeconómicas regionales. En los reglamentos respectivos se indicarán las
extensiones mínimas y máximas que podrán adjudicarse, determinadas en unidades agrícolas
familiares, el número de éstas que podrá darse o tenerse en propiedad, los requisitos, condiciones y
obligaciones que deberán acreditar y cumplir los ocupantes de los terrenos.

En las Zonas de Reserva Campesina, la acción del Estado tendrá en cuenta, además de los
anteriores principios orientadores, las reglas y criterios sobre ordenamiento ambiental territorial, la
efectividad de los derechos sociales, económicos y culturales de los campesinos, su participación en
las instancias de planificación y decisión regionales y las características de las modalidades de
producción.
Para regular las áreas máximas de propiedad privada que podrán tenerse por cualquier persona
natural o jurídica, o en común y pro indiviso, en las zonas de reserva campesina que se
establezcan, el Instituto procederá a adquirir mediante el procedimiento señalado en el capítulo VI
de esta ley o por expropiación, las superficies que excedan los límites permitidos".

Mediante el decreto 1777 de 1996 se reglamenta la ley 160 en lo que respecta a las zonas de
reserva campesina y se establece que las ZRC podrán constituirse en "áreas geográficas cuyas
características agro ecológicas y socioeconómicas requieran la regulación, limitación y
ordenamiento de la propiedad o tenencia de los predios rurales"., con el fin de lograr: (i) mejor
acceso de los campesinos sin tierra a la tierra productiva, servicios y oportunidades de desarrollo;
(ii) participación efectiva de comunidades rurales en la planificación y puesta en marcha de los
esfuerzos de desarrollo ; y (iii) un manejo más racional de los recursos naturales en la frontera
agrícola.




                                               - 41 -

   El Acuerdo 024 de 1997 se ocupa de los aspectos operativos legales de la constitución de las ZRC,
   fijando los criterios de selección de las áreas objeto de ZRC, los objetivos y principios orientadores,
   las excepciones, el trámite administrativo hacia su constitución, el plan de desarrollo sostenible y la
   audiencia pública.

II     ORIGEN DEL PROYECTO

   Ø Implementación de las Zonas de Reserva Campesina
    Las causas de ocupación de áreas de ampliación de frontera o de colonización que se inician desde
   mediados del siglo XIX con los procesos de explotación de la quina, el caucho, las pieles y otros
   productos y subproductos de los bosques alto andinos y del piedemonte amazónico, que se
   intensifican a mediados del siglo XX con la recomposición de la población de las áreas rurales del
   área andina, con expulsión y migración de población principalmente campesina hacia núcleos de
   colonización dirigida y áreas de colonización espontánea, generan un ciclo de asentamientos
   transitorios que multiplican las puntas de colonización en detrimento de los recursos naturales de
   regiones ambientalmente frágiles y estratégicas reproduciendo además el fenómeno de
   concentración de la tierra con predominio de explotaciones ganaderas de carácter extensivo.

   El carácter devastador de este tipo de colonización, que transforma el bosque en pradera y traslada
   prácticas andinas de tala y quema a regiones con ecosistemas frágiles y el fenómeno de
   concentración de tierras que se deriva de sus pobres resultados económicos para el pequeño
   productor, unidos a la creciente toma de conciencia ambiental tanto de las instituciones públicas
   como de la población en general, catalizados por movilizaciones campesinas en la década de los 80
   que se presentan como reacción a la represión a los cultivos ilícitos que desde mediados de los
   setenta se establecieron en la amazonia colombina y en algunos sectores de la cordillera andina,
   llevaron a la búsqueda de fórmulas para detener el avance de las puntas de colonización y el
   subsiguiente deterioro socioeconómico de la población y de los recursos.

   En el contexto de las reformas institucionales de la década del noventa enmarcadas en la nueva
   constitución, en el marco así mismo de la cumbre de Río sobre Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo
   Sostenible y en el de la reformulación de la política e instrumentos de reforma agraria, se incorpora
   al texto de la Ley 160/94       Nueva Ley de Reforma Agraria       la figura de las Zonas de Reserva
   Campesina.

   En desarrollo de la Ley y sus normas reglamentarias el INCORA, crea en 1996 las ZRC de: El Pato
   - Balsillas, en el municipio de San Vicente del Caguán, en el departamento del Caquetá; Guaviare,
   conformada por los municipios de San José del Guaviare, El Retorno y Calamar, en el
   departamento del Guaviare; Sur de Bolívar, en los municipios de Arenal y Morales, en el
   departamento de Bolívar , y la del Bajo Cohembí y Comandante, en el departamento del Putumayo.

   Posteriormente en el mes de noviembre de 2000, también por Junta Directiva del INCORA se
   conforma la Zona de Reserva Campesina en el Municipio de Cabrera en el departamento de
   Cundinamarca.

   Investigadores de las disciplinas sociales, económicas y del derecho del El Instituto Amazónico de
   Investigaciones Científicas ­ SINCHI , liderados por el Director general de este Instituto creado por
   la ley 99 de 1993 que a su vez crea el Sistema Nacional Ambiental y sus institutos de investigación,
   para el desarrollo sostenible adelantan los trabajos preliminares que sirven de soporte a la decisión
   del Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural, de contratar un empréstito de los catalogados por el
   Banco como de "Aprendizaje e innovación" para darle bases metodológicas y de una experiencia
   piloto al desarrollo de las zonas de reserva campesina. La figura de las Zonas de Reserva
   Campesina adquiere importancia estratégica tanto para las comunidades de colonos como para el
   Gobierno Nacional, en una coyuntura en que la presencia de factores de desestabilización del
   Estado como el narcotráfico, en amplios sectores del territorio rural con alta influencia de la guerrilla
   y la creciente pobreza e inconformidad de las comunidades campesinas de las áreas de ampliación
   de frontera hacen imperativas acciones de desarrollo socioeconómico y fortalecimiento de la



                                                  - 42 -

   democracia local y regional.

   El crédito ascendió a US$ 5 millones con una contrapartida del gobierno Nacional, de US$ 1.6
   millones. Finalmente el aporte de contrapartida fue de US$ 1´616.196 destinados principalmente,
   (US$1´434.447), a procesos de adquisición y dotación de tierras a campesinos de la zona del Pato
   ­ Balsillas y a titulación de terrenos baldíos ocupados por colonos de las zonas del Pato-Balsillas, en
   el departamento del Caquetá y de Calamar, en el departamento del Guaviare. De los recursos del
   empréstito se utilizaron US$ 4´161.697.96, en desarrollo de los subproyectos y en la administración
   del proyecto.

   Ø Porque el Proyecto se considera una solución
   Las Zonas de Reserva Campesina se conciben                        como instrumento para el desarrollo
   socioeconómico sostenible de las comunidades de campesinos y colonos de las diferentes zonas del
   país en que predominan los terrenos baldíos, en donde precisamente se ubican las áreas de
   colonización.

   No obstante la pertinencia de la figura de Zonas de Reserva Campesina, el país no tenía
   experiencia alguna en el tema, en el momento de su creación por la Ley, si bien es cierto se tenían
   claros los objetivos y      los campesinos y sus organizaciones reclamaban el establecimiento de
   instituciones de esta índole. Esto llevó a que surgiera la necesidad de contar con un proyecto piloto
   cuya formulación y gestión de recursos financieros se efectuó                  simultáneamente con la
   reglamentación de los artículos pertinentes de la ley 160/94.

   De acuerdo a los principios orientadores señalados en la Ley y las recomendaciones de política, las
   Zonas de Reserva Campesina pretenden entre otros objetivos, crear espacios de concertación
   política, económica ambiental, social y cultural entre el Estado y las organizaciones campesinas;
   controlar la concentración o fragmentación de la propiedad en zonas de alto conflicto social;
   fomentar la pequeña propiedad rural, social, económica y ambientalmente sustentable; estabilizar
   los procesos de colonización de las nuevas fronteras agrícolas; ser un instrumento de ordenamiento
   ambiental territorial.

   Una política pública de estas dimensiones y de estos alcances, se presenta como una gran
   oportunidad para consolidar tanto las dinámicas de la sociedad rural como de las comunidades
   indígenas, sobre la base del respeto social, cultural y territorial. Las Zonas de Reserva Campesina
   son un instrumento formidable para garantizar las buenas relaciones entre ambas sociedades, en el
   entendido de que se asuman las diferencias culturales y se reconozcan las necesidades específicas
   de cada grupo, por la integralidad territorial, social y cultural.

   Como esta concebido en el empréstito el desarrollo del Proyecto Piloto de Zonas de Reserva
   Campesina, generará: (a) una metodología reproducible para el establecimiento y operación de las
   Zonas de Reserva Campesina (distintas de aquellas que se deben desarrollar bajo el proyecto) en
   los terrenos especificados en el Capítulo XIII y el Decreto 1777 como un incentivo razonable que
   permita emprender actividades pacíficas y económicamente sólidas que propicien la reducción de la
   pobreza en zonas en cuestión;          (b) acciones prototipo para proteger las reservas de bosques
   tropicales húmedos y los territorios de los pueblos indígenas, adyacentes a las zonas en cuestión, si
   los hubiere; y (c) un programa nacional incluyendo propiedades, presupuestos y cronogramas, para
   el establecimiento futuro de las zonas antes mencionadas.

III    RESULTADOS Y LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

   Ø Logros
        1. Efectiva participación de la Comunidad en la formulación y desarrollo de sus propias
      iniciativas a través de la socialización del proyecto, la formulación del los subproyectos y el
      fortalecimiento de las organizaciones comunitarias para la gestión e interlocución con las
      diferentes instituciones y programas de apoyo al desarrollo rural.




                                                    - 43 -

   La participación de la comunidad        en la ejecución del Proyecto Piloto, se refleja en la
   presentación      de un portafolio muy amplio de subproyectos, debidamente identificados,
   diseñados, y elaborados por las organizaciones comunitarias, quienes en coordinación con el
   Grupo de Manejo del Proyecto, definieron las prioridades de inversión.

   En los cinco años de ejecución del proyecto se desarrollaron 122 subproyectos zonales de los
   cuales 55 se ejecutaron en la zona del Pato-Balsillas, 31 en Calamar y 36 en Cabrera, con una
   inversión de $4.393.9 millones: 41% del valor de la inversión para El Pato Balsillas, 36% para
   Calamar y 23% para Cabrera,

   La mayor proporción, de inversión, (45% de los proyectos), se destinó a los subproyectos de
   infraestructura, el 25% a desarrollo de proyectos productivos, el 16% a fortalecimiento
   comunitario y el 14% a proyectos ambientales

   2. Obtención de la metodología o instrumentos metodológicos para la organización y desarrollo
   de las ZRC. La cual recoge la experiencia del Proyecto Piloto y que pueden ser transferidas a
   las zonas ya creadas o a las que están en proceso de constitución. La metodología es uno de los
   resultados finales que se entrega por el ejecutor a la conclusión del mismo.

   Se diseñaron instrumentos de medición y evaluación de la participación y empoderamiento de
   la comunidad, que resultan novedosos y aplicables a proyectos similares: El Índice de
   Capacidad Organizacional (ICO) y la Evaluación Socioeconómica Ambiental Participativa ­
   ESAP, los cuales se utilizan para       medir la capacidad administrativa y de gestión de las
   organizaciones comunitarias. Registra los parámetros socio-económicos, y permite detectar las
   debilidades de las organizaciones en su capacidad instalada, mecanismos de gestión interna,
   técnicas de oficina, elaboración de planes estratégicos y gestión de recursos. Identificadas las
   deficiencias que pueden presentar las organizaciones se diseña y pone en marcha una
   estrategia de fortalecimiento organizacional para superarlas.

   La Evaluación Socioeconómica Ambiental Participativa, ESAP, es el diagnostico preliminar que
   refleja tanto los componentes técnico ambientales de las zonas: como los componentes de
   incremento de Capital Social y Fortalecimiento Institucional de las comunidades el cual se
   evalúa antes de iniciar la intervención en la zona. Se aplica también a la priorizar de iniciativas
   de inversión. Esta herramienta contempla el comportamiento de indicadores de pobreza, capital
   social, conflictos y problemática ambiental

   El propósito de esta herramienta era el de derivar elementos de las lecciones aprendidas, para
   incorporarlos en las estrategias de operación de futuras ZRC, a partir de la información
   disponible sobre el desarrollo de los subproyectos ejecutados: de infraestructura, productivos y
   de fortalecimiento de las zonas.

   3. La recuperación de la confianza en los programas del Gobierno por parte de las comunidades
   vinculadas a las tres zonas de aplicación del Proyecto, no obstante el clima adverso propiciado
   por la presencia e incidencia de la guerrilla y la débil o nula presencia del Estado.

   4. La presencia institucional en zonas periféricas pese a la presencia de actores armados al
   margen de la ley y la formación de líderes para la gestión del desarrollo socioeconómico
   sostenible de sus comunidades.

   5. La incorporación de criterios de sostenibilidad ambiental y protección de los recursos
   naturales, especialmente del bosque en los procesos de planeación del desarrollo de las zonas y
   de los subproyectos.

Ø Lecciones Aprendidas
Las lecciones más importantes que nos deja la ejecución del PPZRC son en principio las siguientes:




                                               - 44 -

La capacidad de respuesta de las comunidades a procesos de desarrollo cuando se definen
integralmente sus componentes y el apoyo de las diferentes entidades del estado             tiene como
referencia las iniciativas de la comunidad, estructuradas a partir de procesos de capacitación-acción.

La importancia de legitimar la presencia de las comunidades a través del reconocimiento del
territorio que ocupan como área susceptible de un nuevo esquema de desarrollo que conjuga sus
intereses socioeconómicos con la necesidad de hacer un uso sostenible de los recursos y de
reconocer el valor no solo protector de los sistemas boscosos sino de su potencial productivo en
términos de bienes y servicios.

Si bien es cierto las comunidades coexisten con la presencia de grupos armados que pretenden
suplantar funciones del Estado, ante la ausencia o debilidad del mismo, y aunque los mecanismos
que buscan equilibrar y asegurar los derechos de propiedad sobre la tierra contribuyen a reducir
factores de conflicto, no puede atribuirse a este tipo de figuras o proyectos la capacidad de
instrumentos para conjugar la guerra, en cuanto los campesinos no son actores del conflicto armado,
si bien es cierto se ven sometidos a la presencia de grupos armados al margen de la ley y ven a sus
hijos vinculados a la fuerza, a sus filas

El desarrollo de proyectos piloto a través de unidades de administración y ejecución externas a las
instituciones que existen al efecto, genera dificultades para la incorporación mucho más directa e
inmediata de las experiencias y conlleva pérdida de las experiencias vivenciales de los integrantes
de los equipos a favor de la institucionalidad del Estado.

El apoyo técnico y administrativo de los expertos del Banco Mundial a este tipo de proyectos,
además de ser definitivo para la obtención de logros y avances, por la riqueza de su conocimiento y
posibilidad de comparar la experiencia con experiencias similares de diferentes países y lugares,
bien puede, y se recomienda se incorpore, a proyectos piloto, en los que debe evitarse crear
unidades al margen de la institucionalidad del Estado.

Ø Transferencia de la experiencia y aplicación de resultados
La evaluación externa del Proyecto Piloto por parte de la Universidad Javeriana, que contó con
participación de las comunidades involucradas en el proyecto y que concluye en la pertinencia e
importancia tanto de las zonas como del modelo desarrollado en la experiencia piloto, para el
desarrollo de zonas de colonización y más específicamente de zonas ubicadas en la frontera
agrícola , señala la figura de las Zonas de Reserva Campesina como una herramienta válida, que
debe ser incorporada al instrumental y política del Estado Colombiano para intervenir en áreas con
predominio de baldíos y presencia de asentamientos de punta de colonización.

El Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural asume a través del Instituto Colombiano de Desarrollo
Rural - Incoder, el compromiso de atención de las zonas que participaron en el Proyecto Piloto, para
darle continuidad al proceso, igualmente asume el compromiso de aplicar la metodología e
instrumentos generados en el Proyecto Piloto, para la constitución y desarrollo de las diferentes
zonas que existen o que se constituyan en lo sucesivo.

El Incoder al asumir esta responsabilidad formula como mecanismo de atención dentro de su
esquema operativo de Zonas de Desarrollo Rural, la constitución de Zonas Especiales de Desarrollo
Rural, en las que incorporará la metodología obtenida como resultado principal del Proyecto.

La atención a través de las áreas especiales de desarrollo rural, lleva implícita la vinculación de los
Departamentos y sus Secretarías de Agricultura, como agentes del Ministerio de Agricultura y
operadores y responsables de los programas y aplicación de los objetivos misionales del Incoder.




                                               - 45 -

- 46 -

