Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/13/2005 
Report No.:  AC1277
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Mexico 
Project ID:  P085593 
Project Name:  MX Tertiary Education Student Assistance 
Task Team Leader:  Andreas Blom 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 15, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: September 13, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSHE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Tertiary education (80%);Secondary education (10%);General public 
administration sector (10%) 
Theme:  Education for the knowledge economy (P);Other financial and private sector 
development (S);Export development and competitiveness (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
181.10 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
119.57
119.57 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed program supports the Government's strategy to expand access and 
completion of tertiary education in a sustainable, equitable and efficient manner. This 
will be pursued through the development of a coherent student assistance system 
consisting of student loan and grant programs, compensatory interventions to improve 
access for disadvantaged students, and the development of the national tertiary education.   
 
3. Project Description 
In the first phase of the APL, this objective will be pursued through support for: (i) 
PRONABES national scholarship program and development of the regulatory framework 
for tertiary education student assistance; (ii) the development of a program of student 
loans in the state of Quintana Roo; (iii) academic and social assistance to disadvantaged 
groups through (a) design and test of an early interventions program to expand the pool 
of talented low-income upper-secondary students able to enroll in tertiary education, and 
(b) assistance to tertiary education indigenous students; and (iv) development of the 
national tertiary education policy framework.   
 
Page  2
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
All the United Mexican States.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Juan Martinez (LCSEO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The Safeguard policy that is triggered by the project is the Indigenous Peoples (O.D. 
4.20, being revised as OP 4.10).  A Social Assessment was carried out in December 2004 
-
March 2005 and full details are presented in Annex 10 of the PAD.  An IPDP has been 
carried out for the Program and is also included in Annex 10.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
a)  The Borrower undertook an analysis of the current situation, and the field work 
carried out extensive consultations with indigenous population.  
 
b)
The Government of Mexico (GOM) has already a strategy and a department for the 
inclusion of indigenous peoples in education programs.  In addition, the National 
Development Plan 2001-2006 elaborated by SEP clearly states its commitment to 
increase equity and, in particular, inclusiveness of indigenous students in the tertiary 
education sector.  
Page  3
c)  The GOM has sufficient capacity to address the inclusion of indigenous peoples.  
There are specific policies deployed in order to offer appropriate tertiary education for 
Indigenous people.  In addition there are a number of Universities with intercultural 
components within the curricula.  
 
d)
Especifically, the proposed project will support a program to improve the education 
outcomes for indigenous students who are enrolled in tertiary education institutions.  The 
program is implemented by the National Association of Universities and Tertiary 
Education Institutions  (ANUIES).  It provides academic support, remedial courses, peer 
tutoring, and information classes on the application process and financial aid for 
indigenous students.  
 
e)  An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has been prepared (Annex to this 
document) and will be executed during program implementation.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The social assessment was performed by a team of social anthropologists and a linguist 
with experience in rural and indigenous social issues in education bicultural relations and 
marginality.  Field work took place in seven Mexican states, visiting an average of three 
communities and three universities in each state.  
 
Research implied observing, discussing and gathering opinions in community focus 
groups, gathering data through open interviews with parents, students and leaders, and 
applying a questionnaire to 370 individuals self ascribed as Indigenous people: 92 were 
parents, 30 local leaders, 142 students at tertiary level, and 106 students at upper 
secondary level (bachillerato and preparatoria).  
 
The key findings are:  
 
(i) the indigenous people support the PRONABES national scholarship program; (ii) the 
program is compatible with the social and cultural practices of the indigenous people; 
(iii) it reduces, but does not resolve, the indigenous people?s lack of finance to pursue 
tertiary studies; (iv) indigenous people face difficulties complying with PRONABES 
paperwork requirements, and (v) the proposed expansion of the PAEIIES program is 
effective in assisting indigenous students to access and complete tertiary education 
through academic assistance, information campaigns and assistance with paperwork.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/28/2004 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/12/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/13/2004 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in 
consultation with the Indigenous People? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit? 
Yes 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andreas Blom 
04/13/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Juan Martinez 
02/28/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Ms Maria E. Castro-Munoz 
03/21/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
04/13/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Eduardo Velez Bustillo 
04/13/2005 
Comments:   
Page  5
