                                          Document of 

                                       The World Bank 


                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                        Report No: 53003-MX




                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                             ONA

                       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING 

                                      OF 

                TERTIARY EDUCATION STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT 

                          (LOANS 7346-ME AND 7349-ME) 

                        APPROVED ON DECEMBER 13,2005 


                                IN THE INITIAL AMOUNT OF 

                                     US$ 180 MILLION 


                                              AND 


                              A RESTRUCTURED AMOUNT OF 

                                    US$ 171 MILLION 



                            TO THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES 



                                       February 10,2010 





I his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the
 T
i   performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
          Bank authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANUIES   National Association of Universities and Higher Education Institutions
         (Asociacion Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones de Educacion
         Superior)
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
BANOBRAS National Bank of Public Services and Works (Banco Nacional de Dbms y
         Servicios Publicos, s.N. C)
GOM      Government of Mexico
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
PDO      Project Development Objective
PRONABES National Scholarship Program for Higher Education (Programa Nacionaf
         de Becas para fa Educacion Superior) 

SEP      Secretariat of Public Education (Secretaria de Educacion Publica) 





                       Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                     Country Director:       Gloria M. Grandolini
                      Sector Manager:        Ching boon Lee
                        Sector Leader:       Christoph Kurowski
                    Task Team Leader:        Erik A. Bloom
                                         2
3

                                                     MEXICO


                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                 Page
ANNEX 1: Proposed Changes ............................................................................................ 9 

ANNEX 2: Appraisal Summary Update ........................................................................... 12 

ANNEX 3: Updated Critical Risk Framework ................................................................. 13 

ANNEX 4: Results Framework and Monitoring .............................................................. 14 





                                                           4

                                                                                Status: Submitted to SECPO




    Sector Manager/Direct~ _ _ - - - - 1 - - - " " - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
    Country Director                     Gloria M. Grandolini
~.O-r-i-i-n~al-B-o-m-d-A-r-o-v-al-D-a-t-e-----~-12~/-13-n~0-0-5~-~~------------------~

[9;i ginal Closing Date:                            03/0112010
 Current Closin Date                               03/0112010
  Proposed Closing D(l~te~["_if_ap...Lp_li_ca~b.~le__']_ ___+_:1:=2~/3~1~/2::::0~1~1-=---:--_ _ _----,-___________---1
                                ......
. EA                                                            C-Not
                                                                C-Not

i   Revised EA Completion Date



    2. Revised Financin2 Plan (USS)
    Source                                                     Original                          Revised
    BORR                                                           119.57                             119.57
    IBRD                                                           180.00                             180.00
    Total                                                          299.57                             299.57




'--..                        -----------------------------
    4. Impiementin2 A2ency
'--_ _ _Organization1--I_ _=Dt;partment                                     I               Location


    5. Disbursement Estimates (USSm) _
    Actual amount disbursed as of 02/17/2010                                                             82.41
             Fiscal Year                              Annual                               Cumulative
    2009                                                          0.00                                  82.41
    2010                                                          0.00                                  82.41
                                                              Total                                     82.41
    6. Policy Excel!tions and Sllfeguard Policies 

    Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies? 



r---
    Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,                 N
    please select from the checkli st below.




    7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
    Orh~inall<:::':I:l'"rent
                        Pro.iect Development Objectives/Outcomes
    The program supports the Government strategy to foster the sustainable and equitable expansion
    oftertiaryeducationthroughstudentass istance. This would be pursued through the development of a
    coherent studentassistancesystem,compensatoryinterventionsfordisadvant aged students, and the
    development of the national tertiary educationpolicy. Inthefirst phaseofthe APL, thisobj ecc dive woul d
    be achieved through support for: (a) PRONABESnationalscholarshipprogramanddevelopment of
    theregulatoryframework for t rtiarye duc ation student assistance; (b) development
    ofthenationaltertiaryeducation policyframework; (c)academic and socialassi stanceto disad vantaged groups
    through (i) design andtestof anearlyinterventions programto expand thepool of talented low-incomeupper
    sec 0 ndaryst udents able to enroll intertiaryeducation,and(ii) assistance totertiary education indigenous
I
    students;a nd (d)the piloti n g of a sta te-Ievel studentloans programinoneMexican state.




    7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]

    The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower#s strategy to foster the sustainable, equitable and
    efficient expansion of tertiary education through student assistance through the development of a coherent
    student assistance system consisting of grant programs and compensatory interventions for disadvantaged
    students and supporting the national tertiary education policy.




                                                         11
I. Introduction

1.     This Restructuring Paper responds to the request of the Government of Mexico
(GOM) and introduces the following changes in the Mexico Tertiary Education Student
Assistance Project (P085593, Loans 7346-ME (approved by the World Bank Board on
December 13,2005 and signed on April 7, 2006) and 7349-ME (approved by the World
Bank Board of Directors on the same date but not signed due to the reasons explained in
paragraph 5 below) and accompanying amendments to the Project's legal documents:
         change the formulation of the Project Developmcnt Objective to reflect the
           elimination of student loan program as a mechanism of student assistance;
         eliminate the student loan program (Component 4) and private sector
           participation (Component 5) and recognize that Subcomponent 2.1 will not be
           financed with the World Bank loan because the Government's Secretariat of
           Labor has fully implemented all of the elements in this subcomponent with its
           own financial resources;
         reallocate funds from these (sub)components to other components;
         adjust result indicators to reflect these changes.

2.    In addition, the closing date of Loan 7346-ME is extended by 22 months from
March 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011.

II. Background and Reasons for Restructuring

3.      The original objective of the Project was to support the Borrower's strategy to
foster the sustainable and equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through
student assistance through the deVelopment of a coherent student assistance system
consisting of student loan and grant programs, compensatory interventions for
disadvantaged students, and supporting the national tertiary education policy. It was
designed as a three-phase APL.

4.     As designed, Phase I of the APL had the following components:
       1) Support for the PRONABES national scholarship program and the
          development of a national regulatory framework for tertiary education student
          assistance
       2) Institutional strengthening 

       3) Support to disadvantaged students 

       4) State-level student loans 


5.       It was anticipated that Phase II of the APL would partly overlap with Phase I and
expand State-level student loan programs. Phase II was intended to provide additional
support for the promotion of private investments in student loans should the need arise; it
also included an additional Project component: Component 5- promotion of private
investment in student loans. Phase III of the APL was expected to (a) continue to support
the strengthening of PRONABES; (b) continue to support the scaling-up of state-level
student loans programs; (c) further expand the interventions to assist disadvantaged
students, and (d) continue to support the development of the tertiary education policy and
institutional capacity-building at national and state level.

                                            6
6.      APL 1 was expected to be financed by two loans. The first loan of US$171.0
million (7346-ME) was to the United Mexican States and covered Components 1, 2, and
3. It was signed on April 7, 2006 and declared effective on October 24,2006. The second
loan ofUS$9 million (7349-ME) was expected to be made to the National Bank of Public
Services and Works (BANOBRAS); BANOBRAS was expected to on-lend the Loan
proceeds to the State of Quintana Roo to finance said State's student loan program
(Component 4). However, the newly elected State authorities never reached final
agreement on the legal and financial terms of the on-lending arrangement. No other State
expressed interest in such a program either. The second loan was therefore never signed
and the IBRD withdrew the loan offer on June 17, 2007, 18 months after Board approval.

7.      In addition, after launching the Project, institutional and political barriers made it
clear that the original scope of the Project was too broad. In particular, it was difficult for
a relatively small office in the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP) to coordinate and
lead programs in other areas of the Secretariat and other federal-level secretariats and at
the State level. The National Scholarship Program (PRONABES) director, who was
expected to manage the Project, has no authority outside of this program. The Project was
declared effective at the beginning of the term of a new administration and
implementation was very slow as the new team took over. At the same time, the
economic crisis has increased the demand for PRONABES scholarships, thus leading
GOM to shift its focus to this and other scholarship programs. PRONABES has seen a
significant increase in its size since the program was first proposed and now has an
annual budget ofUS$107 million compared to US$77 million in 2005.

8.       The Project does not have the capacity to implement all of the components
initially designed, particularly the student loan program, as described above. Therefore
the Government requested that Component 4 be formally eliminated (which confirms the
de facto elimination of the component when the offer of the second loan was withdrawn)
and a subsequent reallocation of Loan proceeds. In addition, the Government does not
intend to pursue Phases II and III of the APL which were initially intended to continue to
provide support to the cancelled student loan component.

9.      The Labor Market Observatory envisaged under Component 2.1 has been
developed and implemented by the GOM's Secretariat of Labor with the support of the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The Bank did provide some technical support
for the Observatory as part of project preparation and supervision but most of the work
was carried by the GOM with the IDB. The Labor Market Observatory is functioning
adequately and does not need any additional funding or technical support from the World
Bank. Ther efore, the objectives of Component 2.1 have been successfully met. The
Government has requested that the Bank acknowledge this development in the
implementation completion report.

10.    Finally, there have been delays in initiating Component 3.2 (expansion of the
indigenous students' assistance program) because of coordination problems between SEP
and the National Association of Universities and Higher Education Institutions
(ANUIES). These delays have not materially impacted the implementation of the
Indigenous People's Development Plan (IPDP) as ANUIES had alternative financing. To


                                              7
compensate for the slow start, the Borrower has requested an extension of the closing
date from March 1,2010 to December 31, 2011.


III. Benefits and Risks

11.     The original program was highly ambitious and could not be implemented due to
a lack of demand at the state leveL The proposed restructuring will refocus the operation
and allow it to better carry out its broad objectives, including full supervision of the IPP,
increased technical dialogue, and improving the operation of higher education
scholarship programs.

12.     The Project is expected to reach the same development targets as originally
envisaged (number of graduates from tertiary education in Mexico and share of 18-24
year-old students in tertiary education from households classified at the two lowest
quintiles of the income distribution). Reallocation of Bank loan proceeds will not affect
the overall size of the various project components; it will only slightly change the share
of Bank financing versus counterpart financing. Increased Bank funding of the
scholarships program benefits additional students and therefore allows more people to
pursue higher education.

13.   The restructl,lfing poses no additional risks. There are no overdue audits for Loan
7346-ME and the audits received so far have been satisfactory to the Bank.

14.    Safeguards: The restructuring will not trigger new safeguard requirements. The
environmental classification for the Project is C. Since all the activities are part of the
Project's original design, the safeguards applied will remain unchanged.




                                             8

                                           ANNEX 1: 

                                       Proposed Changes: 


a.  What are the proposed changes, as applicable, in the project's development objectives,
    outcomes, design, and/or scope?

Project Development Objective: The original Project Development Objective was: "to
support the Borrower's strategy to foster the sustainable and equitable and efficient
expansion of tertiary education through student assistance through the development of a
coherent student assistance system consisting of student loan and grant programs,
compensatory interventions for disadvantaged students and supporting the national
tertiary education policy." The revised PDO is: "The objective of the Project is to support
the Borrower's strategy to foster the sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of
tertiary education through student assistance through the development of a coherent
student assistance system consisting of grant programs and compensatory interventions
for disadvantaged students and supporting the national tertiary education policy."

Key outcome indicators of Phase 1 will remain unchanged (number of graduates from
tertiary education in Mexico and share of 18-24 year-old students in tertiary education
from households classified at the two lowest quintiles of the income distribution).

Project Design and Scope: The student loan program (Component 4) and private sector
participation (Component 5)1 will not be implemented. In addition, Component 2.1 will
not be financed with the World Bank Loan because the Secretariat of Labor has fully
implemented all of the elements in this subcomponent; it will not be formally eliminated
and will be reviewed in the Implementation Completion Report.

b. What are the other complementary changes, as applicable:

Institutional arrangements                                             Yes      X No
If, yes, please explain:


Financing mechanism/Conduit                                            Yes      X No
If, yes, please explain:


Outputs                                                             X Yes
If, yes, please explain:

Implications for the indicators: All seven intermediate results indicators for Component
4 will be eliminated. The restructuring will have no impact on the other indicators or
targets.

Project Costs and financing plan (include summary tables) _X_Yes

I No activities were planned for component 5 in Phase I of the APL. Component was to become active in
Phase III of the APL.
                                                 9
If, yes, please explain:

Reallocation of funds: Funds from components and subcomponents that will not be
implemented will be moved to the scholarship program component. This will allow the
GOM to increase the number of scholarship beneficiaries and therefore, the number of
students attending higher education. In total $3.8 million (2% of the loan amount) will be
reallocated as follows:

      Transfer $428,500 from Category 1 (goods) and Category 7 (unassigned) to
       Category 3 (scholarships), since no resources are needed in either category.
      Transfer $1,606,882 from Category 4 (subsidy to ANUIES) to Category 3
       (scholarships), due to savings in Component 3.2.
      Transfer $1,812,875 from Category 2 (consultancies) to Category 3
       (scholarships), due to savings in various components including subcomponents
       2.1 and 3.1.


Category                   Original amount          Amount after          Change +/(-)
                                                    restructuring
(1) Goods                            210,500                         0             (210,500)
(2) Consultants'
services and training               3,254,000                1,441,125            (1,812,875)
(3) Scholarship
grants provided by
SEP pursuant to Part
A.l of the Project                161,960,000              165,808,257             3,848,257
(4) Grants provided
by SEP pursuant to
Part C.2 of the
Project                             4,930,000               3,323,118            (l,606,882)
(5) Front-end fee                     427,500                  427,500                      0
(6) Premia for
Interest rate caps
and collars                                  0                       0                     0

                                 ~
(7) Unallocated                                                      0             (218,000)
TOTAL                                                      171,000,000                     0

Financial management                                                Yes     X No
If, yes, please explain:


Disbursement arrangements                                           Yes     X No
If, yes, please explain:


Procurement                                                         Yes     X No
If, yes; please explain:

                                                 10 

Closing date                                               X   Yes
If, yes, please explain:

                       Implementation delays, especially in Components 3.1 and 3.2
require an extension of the closing date. Loan closing date is therefore postponed by 22
month (to December 31, 2011) to allow time to supervise technical elements in
Component 3.


Implementation schedule                                    X    Yes      No
If, yes, please explain:

See above




                                          11 

                                     ANNEX 2:
                             Appraisal Summary Update:


 Do the proposed changes result in significant change of impact (from original Appraisal
                       Summary of the PAD) in the following:

Economic and financial analysis                         Yes    X    No
If, yes, please explain:

Economic and Financial Analysis. The proposed changes do not modify the original
economic and financial aspects of the Project as appraised. The cost-benefit analysis
focused on PRONABES beneficiaries because 90% of the total project costs are devoted
to the financing of scholarships. This component will not be altered by these proposed
changes. According to the sensitivity analysis the economic rate of return (ERR) ranges
from 5% to 10% depending on assumptions. The cost-benefit estimations do not take into
account the positive externalities from investment in tertiary education, such as improved
technology absorption, which would increase the ERR.


Technical                                               Yes     X   No
If, yes, please explain:

Technical. The Project will reduce its focus on student credit to finance tertiary
education. Although the Government continues to support the use of credit as a means to
promote access, it is moving away from the state-to-state approach. At the same time, the
economic crisis has reduced interest in student loans among many sectors. This change in
approach has no impact on the PD~ in Phase I but complicates plans to proceed to Phase
II and III.

Social                                                  Yes     X   No
If, yes, please explain:


Environment                                             Yes    X    No
If, yes, please explain:


Exceptions to Bank Policy                               Yes    X    No
If, yes, please explain:




                                           12 

                                 ANNEX 3: 

                      Updated Critical Risk Framework: 



New Risks Identified During ImplementationlRestructuring That Might Jeopardize 

       Achievement of the Restructured Project DOs or Outcome Targets: 




N/a




                                      13
                                                              ANNEX 4:
                                                  Results Framework and Monitoring
                                    The following intermediate results indicators will be dropped:
Component 4: Support for State-level student loan program (State of Qunitana Roo)

       Coverage of student loans
       Tertiary education absorption rate (undergraduate)
       Terminal efficiency (undergraduate)
       Retention rate in tertiary education (undergraduate)
       Tertiary education coverage rate by income level
       Default rate
       Efficiency in operational costs

All other indicators will remain the same.
