                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002186



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-73460 IBRD-73490)



                                        ON

                                      LOANS

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$171 MILLION
                                 TO THE

                           UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                    AND IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9 MILLION

                                  TO BANOBRAS

                                      FOR A

           TERTIARY EDUCATION STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                 IN SUPPORT OF

 THE FIRST PHASE OF THE TERTIARY EDUCATION STUDENT ASSISTANCE
                            PROGRAM



                                   June 29, 2012



Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2012)
                   Currency Unit = Peso (MXN$)
                        MXN1.0 = US$0.08
                         US$1.0 = MXN13.11

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    ANUIES    National Association of Universities and Higher Education Institutions (Asociación
              Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones de Educación Superior)
      APL     Adaptable Program Loan
 BANOBRAS     National Bank of Public Services and Works (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
              Públicos, S.N.C.)
      CIDE    Center for Research and Teaching in Economics (Centro de Investigación y
              Docencia Económicas)
CNPRONABES    National Coordination of PRONABES (Coordinación Nacional del PRONABES)
   CONEVAL    National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (Consejo
              Nacional de Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social)
      CURP    National Identification Number (Clave Única de Registro de Población)
      DGAJ    Directorate General for Legal Affairs at SEP (Dirección General de Asuntos
              Jurídicos de la SEP)
    DGAPRF    Directorate General for Budget Administration and Financial Resources (Dirección
              General de Administración Presupuestal y Recursos Financieros) at SEP
   DGENAM     Directorate General of Teacher Education and Training (Dirección General de
              Educación Normal y Actualización del Magisterio)
     DGEST    Directorate General of Technological Higher Education (Dirección General de
              Educación Superior Tecnológica)
     DGESU    Directorate General for Higher University Education at SEP (Dirección General de
              Educación Superior Universitaria)
        GPA   Grade Point Average
       IADB   Inter-American Development Bank
  ICEEQROO    Student Loan Institute of the State of Quintana Roo (Instituto de Crédito Educativo
              del Estado de Quintana Roo)
      IPDP    Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
       MIS    Management Information System
      MOP     Project Operational Manual (Manual de Operaciones)
     NAFIN    National Financier (Nacional Financiera)
       PAD    Project Appraisal Document
     PAEES    Tertiary Education Student Assistance Project (Programa de Asistencia a
              Estudiantes de Educación Superior)
    PAEIIES   Program for Assistance to Indigenous Students in Tertiary Education Institutions
              (Programa de Apoyo a Estudiantes Indígenas en Instituciones de Educación
           Superior)
   PHRD    Program for Human Resources Development, grants financed by the Government
           of Japan
     PND   National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012)
PRONABES   National Scholarship Program for Higher Education (Programa Nacional de Becas
           para la Educación Superior)
     PSE   Education Strategy (Programa Sectorial de Educación 2007-2012)
    SEMS   Under-Secretariat for Upper Secondary Education at SEP (Sub-Secretaría de
           Educación Media Superior)
     SEP   Secretariat of Education (Secretaría de Educación Pública)
     SFP   Secretariat of Public Service (Secretaría de la Función Pública)
    SHCP   Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
           Público)
     SOE   Statement of Expenditures
    STPS   Secretariat of Labor and Social Protection (Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión
           Social)




                         Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                       Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                        Sector Director: Keith E. Hansen
                        Sector Manager: Reema Nayar
                   Project Team Leader: Erik A. Bloom
                      ICR Team Leader: Erik A. Bloom


                                    ii
 
                            UNITED MEXICAN STATES
            Tertiary Education Student Assistance Project in Support of
        The First Phase of the Tertiary Education Student Assistance Program

                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes ....................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46




                                                             iii
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           MX (APL I) Tertiary
Country:                Mexico                   Project Name:
                                                                           Educ Student Ass
                                                                           IBRD-73460,IBRD-
Project ID:             P085593                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           73490
ICR Date:               06/29/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           UNITED MEXICAN
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:
                                                                           STATES
Original Total
                        USD 171.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 171.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 171.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
 Secretaria de Educacion Publica (SEP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/14/2004      Effectiveness:          10/24/2006           10/24/2006
Appraisal:            04/15/2005      Restructuring(s):                            03/01/2010
Approval:             12/13/2005      Mid-term Review:        4/15/2008               06/23/09
                                      Closing:                03/01/2010           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                     5
Secondary education                                                    5                     5
Sub-national government administration                                10                  10
Tertiary education                                                    80                  80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  15
Education for the knowledge economy                                   33                  50
Export development and competitiveness                                17                  5
Indigenous peoples                                                    17                  10
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                             16                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Erik A. Bloom                        Andreas Blom
ICR Team Leader:           Erik A. Bloom
ICR Primary Author:        Todd W. Crawford
                           Abril Alicia Ibarra Castaneda




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's strategy to foster the sustainable
and equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through student assistance
through development of a coherent student assistance system consisting of student loan
and grant programs, compensatory interventions for disadvantaged students, and
supporting the national tertiary education policy.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised objective of the Project was to support the Borrower's strategy to foster the
sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through student
assistance through the development of a coherent student assistance system consisting of
grant programs and compensatory interventions for disadvantaged students and
supporting the national tertiary education policy.

Project Indicators: Adjustments to some indicators were agreed with the Government
based on the availability of new data but these were not included in a formal restructuring
process (see para. 36). The following table discusses progress against these informally
revised targets as well.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of graduates from tertiary education in Mexico
Value
quantitative or   296650                    432000                             475584
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2003                01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  End of Project target informally revised to 478000.
(incl. %
                  Original target met. Informally revised target almost met.
achievement)
                  Share of 18-24 year-old students in tertiary education from households classified
Indicator 2 :
                  at the two lowest quintiles of the income distribution
Value
quantitative or   5.5                       7.5                                20.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2003                01/03/2009                       12/31/2011
Comments          Baseline informally revised from 5.5% to 10% and end of Project target
(incl. %          informally revised from 7.5% to 20%.
achievement)      Target met.




                                                  iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                        Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                         Revised
                                          approval                        Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                         documents)                        Target Years
                Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries from poor households (income less than
Indicator 1 :
                1 minimum salary)
Value
(quantitative   16.64                      20                                 18.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
                Note: While targets were specified for ind 1-4, benef. came from households
Comments
                with below 4 min. salaries. PRONABES successfully increased the proportion of
(incl. %
                scholarships to students with income under 1 min salary, but fell short of the
achievement)
                targeted proportion.
                Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries from poor households (income less than
Indicator 2 :
                2 minimum salaries)
Value
(quantitative   44                         40                                 40.2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
                PRONABES allocated 40 percent of scholarships to students with income
(incl. %
                between 1 and 2 minimum salaries thus achieving the targeted proportion.
achievement)
                Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries from poor households (income less than
Indicator 3 :
                3 minimum salaries)
Value
(quantitative   28.1                       33                                 31
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments        PRONABES successfully increased the proportion of scholarships to students
(incl. %        with income between 2 and 3 minimum salaries, but fell short of the targeted
achievement) proportion.
                Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries from poor households (income less than
Indicator 4 :
                4 minimum salaries)
Value
(quantitative   6.22                       7                                  10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
                PRONABES allocated a higher proportion than targeted of scholarships to
(incl. %
                students with income between 3 and 4 minimum salaries.
achievement)
                Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries that were in the OPORTUNIDADES
Indicator 5 :
                program during upper secondary education
Value
(quantitative   8.72                       10                                 17.9
or Qualitative)



                                              iv
Date achieved     10/01/2004                01/31/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  Informally revised end of Project target: 20%.
(incl. %
                  Original target met. Informally revised target not met.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries that are female
Value
(quantitative     55.8                      56                                 56.71
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/01/2004                01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries that are Indigenous
Value
(quantitative     5.2                       10                                 12.55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/01/2004                01/03/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  Baseline informally revised from 5.2% to 6%.
(incl. %
                  Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Terminal efficiency
Value
(quantitative     n/a                                                          n/a
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2004                                                    12/31/2011
                  This indicator could not be measured during the Project's time frame as data on
Comments
                  PRONABES beneficiaries was available after MIS was implemented-2008-09
(incl. %
                  school year. Will be measured starting 2013 (ftnt 13, para 37. See Table 1 for an
achievement)
                  alternate estimate)
Indicator 9 :     Retention rate of PRONABES beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     65.3                      75                                 87.3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/01/2003                  09/01/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments          The retention rate is defined as the sum of the number of grants renewed in t and
(incl. %          the beneficiaries that graduated in t divided by the number of grants in t -1.
achievement)      Target exceeded.
Indicator 10 :    Number of studies
Value
(quantitative     0                         4                                  2+
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  09/01/2004                 01/03/2009                          12/31/2011
               Informally revised target of 3 largely met. Studies: perceived returns to
Comments
               secondary schooling, PRONABES impact eval. design. Also design of FM,
(incl. %
               MIS, revised PRONABES application, improved targeting to Oportunidades
achievement)
               recipients and Indigenous students.
               Number of PAEIIES beneficiaries (academic and non academic support to
Indicator 11 :
               indigenous students to enable completion of their degree)


                                                  v
Value
(quantitative   n/a                        3500                                11918
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2004                   01/03/2009                          12/31/2011
                When Project funds first became available for PAEIIES in 2009, it had approx
Comments
                9,600 beneficiaries. End of Project target informally revised to 10,000. The
(incl. %
                Project continued to support the existing beneficiaries but also enabled program
achievement)
                expansion. Original
Indicator 12 : Change in retention rate of PAEIIES beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative   n/a                        25                                  20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/15/2004                   01/03/2009                          12/31/2011
Comments
                End of Project target informally revised to 20 percent. Original target not met.
(incl. %
                Informally revised target met.
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Average change in GPA of Beneficiaries (scale from 1 to 10)
Value
(quantitative   n/a                        0.5                                 -0.1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/15/2005                   01/03/2009                          12/31/2011
Comments        Target informally revised to 0.3. The GPA fluctuated marginally for each year of
(incl. %        the Project. The -0.1 value reflects a marginal decline between 2010 and 2011.
achievement) Target not met.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/29/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/01/2006         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3     11/22/2006         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.43
  4     05/15/2007         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.43
  5     07/08/2007         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.43
  6     11/27/2007         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              9.21
  7     12/21/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            14.54
  8     03/20/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            36.26
  9     12/14/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            47.02
                                                           Moderately
 10     03/28/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                           47.02
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                           Moderately
 11     12/13/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                           82.41
                                                         Unsatisfactory
 12     12/20/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            82.41
 13     05/25/2010         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           119.65
 14     02/15/2011         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           167.14
 15     08/15/2011         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           167.14
 16     12/28/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           167.14


                                                 vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Project was largely
                                                     restructured to reflect the
                                                     Government's focus on
                                                     scholarships by eliminating
 03/01/2010       Y       MS     MS         119.65   components 4 and 5 and parts of
                                                     component 1, and reallocating
                                                     among components. The closing
                                                     date was extended by 22 months
                                                     and the APL structure dropped.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The competitiveness of the Mexican economy was declining at the beginning of
the 2000s. Despite entering the North American Free Trade Agreement, by 2003 Mexico
lost its position as the United States’ second largest trading partner. On the World
Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Index, Mexico slid from 34 in 1998 to 48 in
2004 (out of 104 countries).

2.     A well-educated labor force was seen as one of the factors that would contribute
to improved competitiveness by improving labor force productivity and shifting Mexico
towards a more knowledge-based economy. The supply of workers with tertiary
education was, however, constrained by a number of factors:

      Enrollment in tertiary education in Mexico was low, only 21 percent of the 18-24
       year-old population, compared with 31 percent in other middle-income countries.
      Increased public financing to expand tertiary enrollment was considered to be
       unsustainable and inequitable over the long term.
      Expanded enrollment in private tertiary education institutions was constrained by
       the cost, with the average tuition equal to 40 percent of average household income.
      The availability of student loans was low, with 2 percent coverage.
      Access to tertiary education in Mexico was unequal, with less than 2 percent of
       the 18-24 year-olds from the poorest quintile attending, compared with 26 percent
       from the wealthiest. Only 3.5 percent of Indigenous youth attended.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

3.      The PDO from the loan agreement states “the objective of the Project is to support
the Borrower’s strategy to foster the sustainable and equitable and efficient expansion of
tertiary education through student assistance through development of a coherent student
assistance system consisting of student loan and grant programs, compensatory
interventions for disadvantaged students, and supporting the national tertiary education
policy.?

4.      There were inconsistencies within the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and
between the PAD and the Loan Agreement in how the PDO was stated and the version in
the Loan Agreement was the legally binding one, and is the PDO used in the ICR to
assess the Project’s impact. The main inconsistencies were: (i) whether the objective was
to foster the “sustainable, equitable, and efficient? expansion of tertiary education, or
more simply, the “sustainable and equitable? expansion; and (ii) whether such expansion




                                            1
was to be achieved through “student assistance? or, more specifically, through such
assistance consisting of student loans and grants. 1

5.       Key indicators for rating Project outcomes are2:
        Expansion of tertiary education as measured by an increase in the number of
         graduates.
        Improvement in the equity of tertiary education as measured by an increase in the
         share of 18-24 year-olds in tertiary education coming from households in the two
         lowest income quintiles.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

6.      The revised objective of the Project was to support the Borrower’s strategy to
foster the sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through
student assistance through the development of a coherent student assistance system
consisting of grant programs and compensatory interventions for disadvantaged students
and supporting the national tertiary education policy. The PDO indicators were not
changed as part of the restructuring.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7.      The primary target group was expected to be economically and socially
disadvantaged tertiary education students who would benefit from scholarship and
student loan programs. Upper secondary education students were expected to benefit
from the early intervention program. In addition: (a) The National Scholarship Program,
(Programa Nacional de Becas, PRONABES) would build its capacity; (b) The Federal
Secretariat of Public Education (Secretaría de Educación Pública, SEP) would
strengthen its capacity to make tertiary education policy; (c) the Student Loan Institute of
the State of Quintana Roo (Instituto de Crédito Educativo del Estado de Quintana Roo,
ICEEQROO) would benefit from financial and technical support; and (d) the National
Association of Universities and Higher Education Institutions (Asociación Nacional de
Universidades e Instituciones de Educación Superior, ANUIES) would benefit from a
broadening of its assistance program to Indigenous students.



1
  Within the PAD the versions of the PDO were as follow: (i) Data Sheet, “to foster the sustainable and
equitable expansion of tertiary education through student assistance?; (ii) Section B.2, Program Objective
and Phases, “strengthening the Government’s student assistance program to foster the sustainable, equitable
and efficient expansion of tertiary education … through … [the] student loan and grant system?; (iii)
Section B.3, PDO and Key Indicators, “to foster the sustainable and equitable expansion of tertiary
education through student assistance … through ... student loan and grant programs?; and (iv) Annex 3,
Results Framework and Monitoring, “strengthening the Government’s student assistance program to foster
the sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education.?
2
  The reference point in the ICR for the Key Indicators is the “Arrangements for Results Monitoring?
framework found on pages 27-29 of the PAD. On page 9 of the PAD, some Intermediate Results Indicators
are incorrectly identified as Key Outcome Indicators.


                                                    2
1.5 Original Components

8.     Component 1 was to finance 58 percent of the federal share (29 percent taking
into consideration the states’ shares) of the PRONABES scholarship program for
academically qualified tertiary education students entering public tertiary institutions and
demonstrating financial need. This component also included technical assistance,
consultants, incremental operational costs, and coordination of state-level scholarship
programs. It envisioned a number of studies aimed at strengthening PRONABES’s
management information system (MIS), refining and verifying the application of its pro-
poor and pro-Indigenous peoples targeting criteria, developing guidelines for state-level
student loan programs, and assessing the feasibility of a reimbursable grant scheme.

9.      Component 2 was to support activities carried out by SEP’s Under-Secretariat for
Upper Secondary Education (Sub-Secretaría de Educación Media Superior, SEMS) to
develop and disseminate a database on labor market opportunities for upper secondary
and tertiary education students. This would strengthen the Labor Market Observatory,
which the Secretariat of Labor and Social Protection (Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión
Social, STPS) had already developed. It was also to finance a number of studies to
strengthen the analytical foundation for tertiary education policy.

10.     Component 3 aimed to develop and pilot, possibly in two regions, an early
intervention program to encourage talented students from low-income and Indigenous
families who were receiving support through the Oportunidades program (a conditional
cash transfer program) to complete upper secondary-level education and qualify for
enrollment in a tertiary institution. Interventions to be considered (on a pilot-basis)
included counseling, mentoring and tutoring, remedial and advanced placement courses,
and preparation for tertiary admission tests. The component included support for the
existing Program for Assistance to Indigenous Students in Tertiary Education Institutions
(Programa de Asistencia a Estudiantes Indígenas en Instituciones de Educación Superior,
PAEIIES). Activities included technical assistance to Academic Support Units located in
Tertiary Education Institutions and support for coordinators, tutors, and other activities.

11.     Component 4 was to be financed through a separate loan to National Bank of
Public Services and Works (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos,
BANOBRAS) and was intended to enable it to on-lend to ICEEQROO to support the
agency’s lending program as well as institutional strengthening activities. The Project
was designed to provide support to one state and Quintana Roo was identified as the
target state. The size of the loan (US$9 million) reflected the needs of the state. The loan
was to be guaranteed by the state and would capitalize a reserve fund to cover losses to
put ICEEQROO on sustainable financial footing.

12.    Component 5 was planned for later phases of the Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) to promote an expansion of private commercial student loan agencies that could
mobilize private capital and leverage public resources for tertiary education scholarships.
The design of this component was based on a study on alternative financing for higher
education that was to be undertaken in phase I under Component 5.



                                             3
1.6 Revised Components

13.     The February 2010 restructuring eliminated Components 4 and 5. This reflected
the change in the PDO which eliminated student loans as a means to achieve Project
objectives while retaining grants as a means. Parts of Component 1 were also eliminated
including the development of the guidelines for state-level student loan programs and the
assessment of a reimbursable grant scheme.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.    The restructuring entailed some reallocation of funding between components and
between financing categories. The changes introduced in the restructuring were carried
out by changing the amount in each financing category, with PRONABES managing the
corresponding changes in the budget for each component. Under Category 3
(Scholarships grants through component 1), the most significant change was the addition
of US$3.8 million in IBRD financing for the PRONABES scholarship program. Under
category 2 (Consultant services), IBRD financing for the promotion and information
dissemination of PRONABES (Component 2.1) was reduced because the Government
decided to rely more on its own resources and IDB technical support and successfully
completed these activities. Under category 4 (Grants for PAEIIES, through Component
3.2), IBRD financing was reduced given delays in launching activities. The Project
closing date was extended by 22 months. Finally, with the elimination of Components 4
and 5, which were to have been central to Phases 2 and 3 of the APL, the Government
advised that the APL structure was no longer viable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

15.   Project preparation, design and quality at entry had a number of strengths. Chief
among these:

       The Project identified the need to increase funding and improve the targeting of
        scholarships. Project preparation explored various options and provided
        significant support to PRONABES with the aim of improving its capacity.
       Project preparation built on international experience and lessons learned in
        Mexico and other situations.3 Key lessons were: (a) scholarships combined with
        marginally subsidized student loans are necessary but not sufficient to increase
        enrollment by low and middle-income students; (b) equity in tertiary education
        required student financing as well as early intervention programs; (c) a public
        communications campaign was necessary to ensure awareness; and (d) a
        sustainable student loan program required a well-defined set of rules.


3
 Some of the principal projects included the Mexico Higher Education Financing Project (4332-ME), the
Jamaica Student Loan Project (4070-JM), and the Venezuela Student Loan Reform Project (3494-VE).


                                                 4
      The Project developed an innovative Indigenous People’s Development Plan
       (IPDP). During Project preparation, the Government and the Bank looked at
       several alternatives and identified an existing functioning Indigenous Peoples
       Program, the coverage and functioning of which the Project could help improve.
      The rationale for the APL instrument was strong. International experience had
       shown that reforming tertiary education policy and developing a coherent tertiary
       education student assistance program was a long-term process. During project
       preparation, it was clear that there was substantial uncertainty and piloting
       different approaches would be required.

16.     At the same time, there were some weaknesses in Project preparation, design and
quality at entry. The most significant of which were the following:

      Project design did not adequately mitigate against the risk of change in
       government or other political development that might undermine support for the
       overall program or lead to its delay (this risk was only rated as Moderate). Change
       in the federal administration in December 2006 resulted in some overall delays,
       including in the provision of budget for some Project activities. This risk was also
       seen at the state level, with the change of the government of Quintana Roo, and a
       subsequent failure to reach an agreement on the legal and financial terms of on-
       lending loan proceeds.
      Likewise, the Project design did not appropriately assess and mitigate against the
       risk that a continued economic downturn could adversely alter the landscape for
       successfully implementing the Project (this risk was rated Low). The possibility
       of an economic downturn that might derail the student loan components was not
       considered at all.
      The lack of key agreements and understandings at the time of negotiations
       delayed loan effectiveness of Project implementation. In particular: (i) the PAD
       indicated that a draft loan agreement between BANOBRAS and Quintana Roo in
       support of Component 4 would be available by negotiations, this was not the case.
       Firm indications of both parties’ agreement could have provided an early
       opportunity to resolve them; (ii) similarly, the PAD indicated that a draft contract
       between SEP and ANUIES to support implementation of PAEIIES (through
       support to the Project’s Indigenous Peoples Development Plan), would be
       available by negotiations, but it was not finalized until 2009; (iii) requiring a clear
       indication that budget would be provided in a timely fashion for Components 2
       and 3 could have smoothed implementation. As it was, such budget was not
       available until 2009.
      The results monitoring framework was not fully developed. Several problems
       were known to exist with respect to the baselines and the Government’s ability to
       monitor indicators. These issues could have been resolved during Project
       preparation. As it was, monitoring remained a weakness through most of the
       Project.

17.    In addition, the Project design included complex institutional arrangements and
did not adequately take into account or mitigate against governance or capacity risks.


                                             5
SEP was to implement Components 1, 2 and 3 through PRONABES and SEMS, with
additional support from other directorates-generals of SEP. While it had authority to
implement some components, it did not have direct authority over others, which were the
purview of other departments in SEP or even of other external organizations:

       PRONABES was a program under the Directorate-General for Higher University
        Education (Dirección General de Educación Superior Universitaria, DGESU) in
        the Sub-secretariat for Higher Education (Sub-Secretaría de Educación Superior,
        SES), which is part of SEP. The National Coordination of PRONABES,
        (Coordinación Nacional de PRONABES, CNPRONABES) was to have direct
        responsibility for the scholarship program under Component 1.1, establishment of
        the regulatory framework for tertiary education student assistance programs under
        Component 1.2, the institutional and policy strengthening activities under
        Components 2.2 and 2.3 and, in collaboration with ANUIES, an independent
        association of universities, the expansion of the assistance program for Indigenous
        students, under component 3.2.
       SEMS was to be responsible for the design and testing of the early intervention
        programs for disadvantaged upper secondary students under Component 3.1. In
        doing so, it was to work in coordination with PRONABES and interested states.
       SEP’s Directorate-General for Legal Affairs, (Dirección General de Asuntos
        Jurídicos, DGAJ) and the Directorate-General for Budget Administration and
        Financial Resources (Dirección General de Administración Presupuestal y
        Recursos Financieros, DGAPRF), were also to provide support.

18.    In addition, CNPRONABES had a very small staff at the time of Project
preparation – only two staff with no specialists. For example, this lack of capacity was
the major contributor to the negative audit report on the management of a project
preparation grant from the Program for Human Resources Development, PHRD. These
governance and capacity risks to successful Project implementation were not considered
adequately in Project design.

2.2 Implementation

19.    The Project made some important contributions to tertiary education financing
and policy in Mexico, by focusing on expanding and improving the PRONABES
scholarship program as well as other support to tertiary education students, despite
implementation delays in some components.

20.    Component 1.1 (Support for the PRONABES National Scholarship Program)
was disbursed in a timely manner and was, by far, the largest in terms of IBRD financing
with US$165.8 million allocated to it through the restructuring compare to US$162
million originally. As PRONABES was allocated increasing federal and state budget4


4
 According to PRONABES, in fiscal year 2001 their budget (including state and federal resources) was of
MX$496 million; before the Project started in fiscal year 2005 the budget increased to MX$1.67billion and
continue this trend up to MX$3.14 billion in fiscal year 2011.


                                                    6
and demonstrated that it could use it effectively, the number of PRONABES beneficiaries
steadily grew at the federal and states levels from 44,422 (2001-2002 school year) to
161,787 before the Project started (2005-2006) and up to 310,690 beneficiaries in the
2010-2011 school year.

21.     The implementation of Component 1.2 (Development of National Regulatory
and Supervisory Framework for the National Financial Aid Program) was delayed
pending the necessary budget authority, which was not forthcoming until 2009. However,
after the funds were allocated, the Project made significant contributions to the design,
development and implementation of PRONABES financing and statistical management
systems (Management Information System, MIS), which were nascent and relatively
undeveloped prior to the Project. The MIS, as well as Annual Meetings (also supported
though the Project) improved, among others, the communication and flow of information
between the states and the National Coordination which was better able to follow up and
supervise the implementation of PRONABES at the state level.

22.    With Project support, PRONABES improved its on-line statistical MIS (Sistema
de Información Estadística de la CNPRONABES). This system was designed in 2009
and launched through a web hosting service in the 2009-10 school year. The statistical
system has allowed PRONABES to generate systematic information at the national level
through collection of 129 variables related to students’ personal and socioeconomic
characteristics. The information for the system is collected from 2009 through an on-line
national students’ application questionnaire which is comprised of six sections: (i)
general characteristics, (ii) scholarship characteristics, (iii) previous studies, (iv)
economic characteristics, (v) family characteristics and (vi) dwelling characteristics. This
data has helped improve significantly the ability of PRONABES to target and supervise
adequate targeting of scholarships at the state level.

23.     The Project supported the redesign of the application questionnaire, building on
lessons of experience from the Bank supported Oportunidades program, and improving
the ability of the scholarship program to give priority, beginning in 2007, to students
from the Oportunidades program, students with an Indigenous background, and
eventually to students with disabilities 5 . Recently, there has also been an important
adjustment of eligibility requirements to better target poor students from large
households6. The new application also requires PRONABES applicants to provide their
national identification number (Clave Única de Registro de Población, CURP) which
eliminates duplicate applications or applications from those benefiting from other
scholarships and quickly enables PRONABES to reach its targeted groups.




5
  The PAD considered as intermediate indicators the share of students from Oportunidades and with
indigenous background receiving PRONABES (see page viii), but not the share of students with disabilities.
Currently, about 17 percent of PRONABES beneficiaries have special learning needs.
6
  As of 2012 the eligibility criteria has been changed from 4 minimum salaries per family (independently of
the family size) to 4 minimum salaries per capita.


                                                    7
24.    With Project support, PRONABES designed a new financial system (Sistema de
Información Financiera para el seguimiento del Programa Nacional de Becas y del
Programa de Asistencia a Estudiantes de Educación Superior). This system was
designed in 2010 and piloted in 2011. The new financial management system has
improved the ability of CNPRONABES to monitor the use of federal and state resources
(disbursements) by state to supervise implementation at the state level. This is a useful
tool to ensure transparency of PRONABES funds. The financial system has also
improved PRONABES efficiency by facilitating a better flow of information among
CNPRONABES, the states and the universities enabling, for example, the verification of
timely release of scholarships to students. All this information is useful for the
CNPRONABES to follow up with states that are facing challenges in targeting or delays
in Program administration.

25.     Component 2.1 (Promotion and Information Dissemination) was included in the
Project to improve the information available to youth on the options available in higher
education. The Government, with support from the IADB to the Federal Secretariat of
Labor and Social Protection (Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social, STPS), made
efforts additional to those financed by the Project to strengthen the Labor Market
Observatory fully meeting the objectives of component 2.1. In addition, SEP also created
its own website, “Decide Your Career? (www.decidetucarrera.ses.sep.gob.mx) based on
the Labor Market Observatory that further increased access to information for youth.

26.     Component 2.2 (Analysis and Institutional Framework – Regulatory
Framework) was severely affected by the change of federal administration in December
2006, just as the Project became effective. Very few activities were implemented under
component 2.2. There have been promising recent developments however. In 2011, the
Project supported an international conference on the feasibility of developing a student
loan system for tertiary education (1er. Foro Internacional sobre Modelos de Crédito
Educativo. Experiencias en su Diseño, Operación e Impacto) in Tijuana, Mexico. The
objective was to provide an analytical base grounded in international experience to
strengthen tertiary education policy through discussing financing alternatives for tertiary
education and the pros and cons of an income contingent reimbursable grant program. A
few months after the conference took place, Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) expanded its
budget for university loans and some states have reinforced their student loan agendas
and reoriented education policies consistent with international experience.

27.     Component 2.3 (Analysis and Institutional Framework – Evaluation of Student
Assistance Programs). Agreement between the government and the Bank on the TOR for
an impact evaluation of PRONABES was delayed by the need to resolve methodological
difficulties and the study was not completed before Project closing. However, the Project
financed the design of the PRONABES impact evaluation and the Government is
committed to continue with this study. For example, SEP has allocated budget for the
baseline study and got the formal approval from the National Council for the Evaluation
of Social Development Policy (Consejo Nacional de Evaluación de la Política de
Desarrollo Social, CONEVAL) on the feasibility study and the TORs for continuing with




                                            8
the impact evaluation. The National Coordination of PRONABES is now in the process
of hiring a firm for carrying out the baseline study.

28.     Component 3.1 (Early Interventions to Assist Talented Disadvantaged Students)
Due to complications in working across different sub-secretariats in SEP, funding was
not available until 2009 to support a study that focused on encouraging upper secondary
school students to continue studying tertiary education. The study was carried out by
SEMS in November 2009 and included piloting and data collection to establish a baseline.
It followed an experimental methodology where a treatment group of students in their
first and fifth semester were provided with information about the returns to upper
secondary and higher education mainly through a computerized interactive software. The
sample was representative at the national and regional levels. Two follow up studies were
planned, one for November 2010 and the second one for November 2011; however, they
were not carried out due to changes in the SEMS administration. Complementary funding
from a World Bank Research Support Budget grant (USD$100,000) has supported a
follow up study in 2012 in the central region of Mexico with those students that were in
their first semester of EMS when the baseline was collected and that are now in their
sixth and final semester. The follow-up study will help estimate the impact that
information on the returns to schooling have on dropout rates and transition to tertiary
education. The results are expected to be available in December 2012 and disseminated,
including on the SES website.

29.     There were significant delays in implementing Component 3.2 (Expansion of the
Indigenous Students Assistance Program) due to delays in establishing the contract
between SEP and ANUIES. This component helped finance the Support Program for
Indigenous Students in Higher Education, PAEIIES, which was originally created in
2001 by a Ford Foundation grant to ANUIES. Following international best practice,
PAEIIES supported universities to establish Academic Support Units to provide
academic and non-academic support to Indigenous students, including tutoring,
counseling, support to apply for financial aid programs (including PRONABES), and
orientation to new entrants. While project financing started later than expected (in 2009),
PAEIIES received additional financing from the Ford Foundation through the end of
2009, so that there was no financing gap prior to Project funding beginning. By the time
Project funds reached ANUIES, PAEIIES reported it had about 9,600 students enrolled.
The Project enabled continued support to these existing students, as well as expansion of
the program to almost 12,000 students. Disbursements under PAEIIES were slow
reflecting both uncertainties by the Bank, SEP, and ANUIES regarding appropriate
disbursement arrangements, as well as ANUIES’ weaknesses to handle the large amount
of Project funding. About 75 percent of the loan proceeds earmarked for ANUIES were
disbursed in the last six months of Project implementation.

30.     Several factors contributed to the inability to implement Component 4 (Support
for state-level student loan programs) and 5 (Promotion on Private investments in
student loans). The change in state administration in Quintana Roo led the State
Legislature to re-examine the financial and legal terms of the loan and alter the draft debt
decree in a fashion unacceptable to BANOBRAS. For its part, BANOBRAS changed its



                                             9
terms from a fixed interest rate to a rate that would float at disbursement and required a
specific source of funding to guarantee repayment, reflecting its concerns about
ICEEQROO’s sustainability. When BANOBRAS was unable to reach agreement with
Quintana Roo state authorities on the legal and financial terms of on-lending loan
proceeds, no other state expressed interest in such a program. At the federal level the
government decided to postpone the introduction of the student loans. The economic
crisis further reduced interest in student loan programs at both the federal and the state
levels7.

31.     A number of difficulties emerged in putting institutional arrangements into
practice, difficulties that were compounded by the fact that loan effectiveness occurred
soon after a change in the federal administration. The PRONABES National Coordinator,
who was expected to manage the Project, had no authority outside of PRONABES,
making it difficult to coordinate and lead programs in other areas of SEP, other federal
programs such as Oportunidades and PAEIIES, ANUIES, and state-level institutions.
The initial small size of CNPRONABES added to the difficulties. For instance, the
PRONABES team did not have enough capacity to execute the Project and had little
knowledge and experience in World Bank Project management. Therefore, it took time
for them to understand how budget requests for the Project needed to be processed at the
country and Bank levels, contributing to delays in the availability of the funds for
executing project activities. Capacity constraints eased as the staff of PRONABES grew
to 49 employees, and Project support for capacity building, especially with respect to
targeting scholarships, M&E and carrying out fiduciary responsibilities, materialized.
Only from 2009, PRONABES was authorized to charge its operational costs to its own
budget and therefore to hire its own personnel with specific qualifications to improve the
program’s equity, sustainability and efficiency. PRONABES now has staff expert in
scholarship programs, socioeconomic analysis, management information systems and
financial management.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

32.      The design of the M&E framework had some weaknesses. Only one of the two
PDO outcome indicators had a direct bearing on the equity dimension of the PDO. There
were no PDO-level indicators pertaining to sustainability and efficiency of the expansion
of tertiary education through student assistance.

33.    The PDO indicators focused on the total number of graduates from tertiary
education8 and, to measure the equity dimension of the PDO, on the share of tertiary


7
    Mexico was hit by the 2008-09 global recession due to its reliance on trade with the United States, the
outbreak of pandemic influenza, and its reliance on oil exports. Between 2008 and 2009, GDP fell 6.1
percent and as a result, poverty increased from 44.5 to 46.2 percent of the population.
8
    This indicator takes into account higher education graduates from both, private and public institutions
offering higher education.


                                                    10
students from the two lowest income quintiles. Intermediate Results Indicators that
measured improved equity included detailed monitoring of which low income groups
(disaggregated by one, two, three and four minimum salaries) benefited from the
PRONABES scholarships. This intermediate indicator helped monitor that those in the
two lowest quintiles of income distribution benefited most since the income of four
minimum salaries has since 2006 been less than the income for the two lowest quintiles
on the income distribution9. Other intermediate results indicators measured the percent of
PRONABES beneficiaries that were in the Oportunidades program during secondary
education, the percent of female PRONABES beneficiaries (although there were no
Project activities that focused on gender) and the percent of Indigenous PRONABES
beneficiaries.

34.      The Results Framework included one intermediate results indicator to measure the
sustainability dimension of the PDO: the default rate of student loans which became
irrelevant to the Project when the student loan activities were restructured out of the
Project in March 2010. Other parts of the PAD, however, made it clear that financial
sustainability of PRONABES would depend on continued one-to-one participation
between federal and state governments in the financing of all grants, and also highlighted
the possible introduction of a reimbursable grant scheme. The PAD also emphasized that
political support for PRONABES would depend on rigorous program evaluation and
dissemination of outcomes at the federal level. At the state level, consultations with
tertiary education institutions in each of the states to ensure that PRONABES growth
took into account the needs of tertiary education institutions as well as continuous
dissemination of program operations and results through state websites and mass media
were considered key. Finally, the PAD envisioned that PAEIIES’ grant financing and
Academic Support Units would be institutionalized within supporting tertiary education
institutions.

35.     The Results Framework included five intermediate results indicators related to the
efficiency dimension of the PDO: terminal efficiency of PRONABES beneficiaries 10 ,
retention rate of PRONABES beneficiaries11, and efficiency in operational costs of the
state-level student loan program (which became irrelevant to the Project following the
March 2010 restructuring). An increase in the number of PAEIIES beneficiaries and the
change in their retention rate were also included as an intermediate result.

Implementation

36.    Some of the baseline and target numbers to measure the indicators in the PAD
were inconsistent through the text and in the Arrangements for Results Monitoring. In


9
  For instance in 2010-11 four minimum salaries per capita were equivalent to MX$1,720 (around US$130)
whereas the income in the two lowest quintiles on the income distribution for the same period was
MX$1,920 (around US$145).
10
   Terminal efficiency is defined on page 28 of the PAD: the ratio of the number of students in cohort t
completing their degree and the size of the same cohort of students that began their studies 5 years earlier.
11
   Retention is defined on page 28 of the PAD as the sum of the number of grants renewed in t and the
beneficiaries that graduated in t divided by the number of grants in t-1.


                                                     11
addition, some of the indicators were hard to measure at the beginning of the Project
since PRONABES did not have the human or technical capacity to provide accurate data.
During the June 2009 mid-term review, PRONABES calculated revised baselines and
targets for some indictors, primarily at the intermediate level. The revisions were not
included in the March 2010 restructuring since further revisions to the MIS were being
made. Once the MIS system was developed the quality and completeness of data,
monitoring, and reporting gradually improved. Some baselines and targets were again
informally revised and agreed between CNPRONABES and the Bank team in 2011, and
reflected in the revised Project Operational Manual (Manual de Operaciones, MOP)12. At
that time, most Project funds had been disbursed and the revisions were not submitted for
formal Bank approval through a Project restructuring.

37.      Making the Project M&E framework a useful tool was a protracted process. Due
to the late processing of national annual budget approvals for conducting Project
activities, and a range of design complexities, work to strengthen the MIS of
PRONABES did not near completion until late in 2009. The data reported by ANUIES
was usually inconsistent given the high turnover in PAEIIES staff and delayed and
sometimes inconsistent data reported from universities. ANUIES gradually improved the
quality of its M&E and increased its reporting once Project resources became available.

38.     Terminal efficiency of PRONABES beneficiaries proved particularly difficult to
measure since it requires tracking PRONABES students for all 5 years to degree
completion and data collection has only been available at the national level since the
2009-10 school year. Therefore, it will only be possible to measure terminal efficiency
for the cohorts that started their studies on or after the 2009-10 school year and the data
for this first cohort will only be available in 2013-14. Instead, PRONABES has been
monitoring how many PRONABES beneficiaries stay in their programs of study from
one school year to another and through the end of the program.13

39.    The ICR team constructed a set of PDO Indicators to measure the equity
dimension of the PDO for purposes of the ICR, building on the Intermediate Results
Indicators in the PAD that measure outcomes directly attributable to Project activities.
Based on references in the PAD to the sustainability and efficiency objectives as
described above, as well as intermediate results indicators that measure Project impact,
the ICR team also constructed a set of indicators against which achievement of
sustainable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through student assistance could
be measured (See Section 3, Table 1 for a list of PDO indicators used for purposes of the
ICR). PRONABES National Coordination is also now able to measure the direct
contribution of the program to the transition rate from upper secondary to public higher
education as well as the percentage in which the program has contributed to the number
of students graduating from higher education which are also used to complement the
discussion in Section 3.



12
     Aide Memoire signed between CNPRONABES and the Bank team in May 25, 2011.
13
     This is complicated by the fact that students occasionally leave PRONABES but continue studying.


                                                     12
Utilization

40.     While targets were never formally revised, the informal revisions served as useful
benchmarks and goals against which Project progress could be meaningfully monitored.
In addition, CONEVAL has prepared and PRONABES has published on its external
website 5 evaluations of this scholarship program. The more recent of these evaluations
Consistency and Results Evaluation of PRONABES (2011-2012) (Evaluación de
Consistencia y Resultados de PRONABES, 2011-2012.), for example, draws on data from
the new financial and statistical systems supported by the Project. In addition, two impact
evaluations were initiated under the Project: one on PRONABES and one study on an
early intervention program to assist talented disadvantaged students.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance

41.      The sole Safeguard policy triggered by the Project was O.P./B.P. 4.10, Indigenous
Peoples. Indigenous youth in Mexico faced a number of disadvantages, including lower
income, poor academic preparation, and limited information. The Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) sought to address these disadvantages by targeting financial
assistance to Indigenous students and providing them with non-financial assistance such
as tutoring, health and family life education, academic support, remedial courses, and
institution-based coordinators for Indigenous students with the goal to raise the retention
rate and their level of academic performance. The PAEIIES program was to be the main
channel for this assistance.

42.    As part of the IPDP, PRONABES committed to provide a scholarship to all
students being supported through the PAEIIES program. The Project originally budgeted
US$4.69 million for Component 3.2 to expand the PAEIIES program to establish new
Academic Support Units at 8 new tertiary education institutions and to assist at least
3,500 Indigenous students.

43.     Implementation of the IPDP through the Project was poor until the later stages of
Project implementation because Project funds were slow to reach ANUIES for
Component 3.2. The chief impediment was the delay in signature of the agreement to
transfer loan proceeds from SEP to ANUIES for PAEIIES in the form of a grant.
Although the Bank continued to underscore in its dialogue with its counterparts the
urgent need to proceed with this component, the delay reflected country legal and
administrative complexities, which were beyond the scope of the Bank, and ANUIES did
not receive Project funds until late in 2009, roughly three years after loan effectiveness.

44.     The Project complied with the Indigenous people safeguard through PAEIIES
which specifically targets Indigenous students in tertiary education. PAEIIES
subcomponent exceeded its original target of 3,500 students under the program as well as
its informally revised target of 10,000. For its part, PRONABES continued to expand its
scholarship support to Indigenous students and exceeded its end-of-Project target of 10



                                            13
percent of such students among its recipients. By December 2011, 12.5 percent of
PRONABES beneficiaries were Indigenous students.

Fiduciary Compliance

45.    There was a limited amount of procurement under the Project. With training and
support from BANOBRAS and the Bank specialists to SEP and PRONABES, this
procurement was done in accordance with Bank policies, although sometimes with delay,
for a variety of reasons including delays in updating procurement plans and tight
submissions by the implementing agency and queries from the Bank. There were,
however, persistent financial management problems throughout Project implementation.
These included qualified audits of use of loan proceeds, slow submission of disbursement
requests, delayed financial management reports, and the need for reclassification of some
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The lack of electronic submission of procurement
claims on a rolling basis contributed to a lag of approximately two weeks between the
request for disbursement by the government and actual disbursement of the last payment.

46.    Lack of familiarity with the Bank’s financial management policies was a factor
contributing to the financial management problems. The need for training to strengthen
the capacity of PRONABES in this regard was recognized from the outset. Training in
Bank financial management, procurement, and disbursements was provided in June 2007
following a specialized financial management supervision mission. An action plan was
agreed to address the continuing concerns about weaknesses in financial management,
including gaps in record keeping, the lack of timely and reliable data, and an unfavorable
external audit of management of the PHRD project preparation grant. With support from
Bank and BANOBRAS specialists, the action plan was substantially implemented by
May 2010.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.     The government has shown persistent interest in a follow-on project to support its
efforts to strengthen access to tertiary education. Discussions of a possible project are
centering on consolidation of improvements to date through further refinements in
targeting of PRONABES financial support and additional steps to improve efficiency. A
new project might also focus on greater coordination between PRONABES and other
more specialized scholarship14 and loan programs which might include a reimbursable
grant scheme. Consideration is being given to including as part of the project renewed
support for developing the policy, regulatory, and financial framework for student loans
from both public and private sources as discussed at the September 2011 conference that
reviewed international experience of student loan programs and reimbursable grant
schemes. In addition, both impact evaluations initiated under the current Project are
expected to be completed in December 2012.


14
  There are different tertiary education scholarship programs run by the Sub-secretariat of Higher
Education. For instance scholarships for: training, social service, high achievement, transport, food, and for
graduation.


                                                     14
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

48.     The objective of supporting the government’s strategy to foster sustainable,
efficient, and equitable expansion of tertiary education through student assistance
continues to have substantial relevance to Mexico’s development needs. Support for low-
income students to enter tertiary education is a central part of both the Government’s
National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012, PND) and its
Education Strategy (Programa Sectorial de Educación 2007-2012, PSE). The Project is
relevant to the third pillar of the PND “Equality of Opportunities? which aims to provide
support to the population with greater needs to improve their health and education. The
Project is also relevant to the second objective of the PSE which aims to increase
education opportunities to reduce inequality among social groups, close gaps and
improve equity. In addition, the strategy explicitly mentions the intention “to increase the
coverage of PRONABES in all school systems to support economically disadvantaged
students with federal and state resources.?

49.     The March 2010 Project restructuring responded to the government’s changing
approach to higher education financing, which put a greater emphasis on scholarships and
largely put exploration into student loans and a reimbursable grant scheme on hold during
the economic downturn and the lack of agreement with the state of Quintana Roo on its
loan program. The Government is now planning the introduction of a federal student loan
program. The Project’s original design, which incorporated both grant and loan programs
as a long-term means to foster sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary
education, remains highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

50.    Table 1 summarizes the achievement of results by PDO and relies on evidence
from the Project’s PDO Indicators but also on the several supplementary PDO indicators
introduced at the ICR stage that are linked to Project activities. This ICR section
addresses only the equitable, sustainable and efficient expansion of tertiary education
through grant assistance and not through student loan assistance since Project activities to
support a student loan program were restructured out of the Project in March 2010.




                                            15
                                Table 1: Summary of Project Outcomes
                              Indicator                             End
                                                             Baseline        Current
                                                                  Targetb/ 2010-11
                                                             2004-05 b/
                                                                  2010-11
PDO 1: The equitable expansion of tertiary education through student assistance
1. Number of graduates from tertiary education         359,635    478,000 475,584
2. The share of 18-24 year old students in tertiary        10       20.0       20.6
education from households classified at the two lowest
quintiles of the income distribution
3. Percentage of PRONABES beneficiaries that were in      8.7        20        17.9
the Oportunidades program during upper secondary
educationa/
4. Percentage of Indigenous PRONABES beneficiaries          6       10.0       12.6
a/

PDO 2: The sustainable expansion of tertiary education through student assistance
5. Continued 1:1 participation between federal and state Yes        Yes        Yes
governments in the financing of all grants a/
6. Rigorous program evaluation carried out at the        n/a        Yes       Partial
federal level and outcomes systematically disseminated
a/

7. Number of tertiary education institutions that have       n/a       8          12
institutionalized Academic Support Units for Indigenous
students a/
PDO 3: The efficient expansion of tertiary education through student assistance
8. Estimated percentage of PRONABES students that            n/a      n/a       56.9%
remain in a tertiary education institution until the end of
their program of study a/ (calculated based on the
PRONABES retention rates from 2009-2010 to 2010-
2011 school year).
9. Retention rate of PRONABES beneficiaries a/              65.3c/    75         87.3
10. Administrative costs of PRONABES remain at less          n/a     Yes         Yes
than 1 percent of budget for scholarships a/
11. National on-line application process is in place for     No      Yes         Yes
all states a/
     a/
        Outcome Indicator added at ICR stage; see ICR Section 2.3.
     b/
        Refers to informally revised baselines and targets, if any.
     c/
       Baseline for retention rate of PRONABES beneficiaries is from 2003-04.

     The Equitable Expansion of Tertiary Education

     51.    The increase in the number of graduates from tertiary education in Mexico was
     dramatic – from 359,635 in the 2004-05 school year to 475,584 in 2010-11 – almost
     achieving the informally revised target of 478,000. The share of 18-24 year-old students
     enrolled in tertiary education from households classified in the two lowest quintiles of the




                                                       16
income distribution also increased substantially, from the informally revised baseline of
10 percent 15 in 2004-05 to nearly 21 percent in 2010-11, slightly exceeding the
informally revised end-of-Project target of 20 percent. The total number of PRONABES
beneficiaries increased considerably from 137,852 in 2004-05 to 320,828 in 2011-12.

52.     The Project contributed to the equitable expansion of tertiary education by
financing approximately 390,000 PRONABES scholarships16 and supporting improved
targeting of all PRONABES students through improvements in targeting criteria and
PRONABES’ application questionnaire. Starting in 2007, targeting criteria were revised
to give priority to Oportunidades recipients and Indigenous students. Since 2009, all
PRONABES’ applicants have been required to fill in the improved questionnaire on-line,
which requests information on an applicant’s family and socioeconomic background to
determine and track eligibility, and understand better the applicants’ pool. Also
PRONABES has improved dissemination of calls for applications to reach those students
more in need. These changes were agreed during the PRONABES Annual Meetings
(supported through the Project) which brought together federal and state officials
managing PRONABES with technical specialists and representatives from other
programs (e.g. Oportundidades, CONEVAL). The improved targeting criteria were
incorporated into PRONABES’ Operational Rules (Reglas de Operación) that govern its
entire program.

53.     In addition, the establishment of the statistical MIS facilitated PRONABES ability
to monitor how scholarships are allocated at the state level which also contributed to the
ability to improve targeting based on evidence. With the MIS system, CNPRONABES
has been able to collect data from all applicants at the national level and compare it with
the final selection made by the institutions’ and states’ technical boards and recommend
improvements.17

54.     Data collected through the application show that the Project has helped
PRONABES to better reach students from poor households (with income below 4
minimum salaries). Before the Project started (2004-2005 school year) only 96 percent of
scholarships were awarded to these poor students whereas by the Project’s closing date,
100 percent were awarded to these students 18 . This is an important improvement in
targeting, in compliance with PRONABES rules.




15
   The original baseline for 2004-05 was 5.5 percent.
16
   This number is calculated based on an annual average scholarship of MX$10,333 equivalent to US$727
(June 4, 2012 currency exchange rate).
17
   All students applying to a PRONABES scholarship need first to apply on-line (national application) and
then compile and submit to the university proof of their on-line application and the necessary
documentation. The universities validate the information, identify eligible applicants and send the list of
eligible students to the State/Institutional Technical Boards (Comités Técnicos Estatales o Institucionales)
that are responsible for the final selection of PRONABES beneficiaries.
18
   The intermediate outcome indicators specified disaggregated targets for the distribution of beneficiaries
by the following household income categories: 0-1, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4 minimum salaries.


                                                     17
55.     The improved targeting criteria and application enabled PRONABES, starting in
2007, to give priority to scholarship applicants with an Indigenous background and
applicants from the Oportunidades program. With the help of the improved application,
PRONABES was able to exceed its targets for these target groups. It increased its
coverage of students from an Indigenous background from 6 percent in 2004-05 to 12.6
percent in 2010-11, above the target value of 10 percent. At the same time, the percentage
of beneficiaries from Oportunidades households (generally from rural and peri-urban
backgrounds) increased from 8.7 percent in 2004-05 to 17.9 percent in 2010-11 above the
original target, but slightly below the target informally revised in May 2011.

The Sustainable Expansion of Tertiary Education

56.     The Project supported financial and political sustainability of PRONABES and
sustainability of the Academic Support Units supported by PAEIIES. This occurred in the
broader context of a commitment to the sustainable expansion of tertiary education as
reflected in the doubling of the total budget for tertiary education from MX$43.2 billion
to MX$80.9 billion between 2006 and 2011.  

57.    Financial sustainability of PRONABES. Since the creation of PRONABES in
2001, the federal government has made federal funding contingent on state governments
matching the federal contribution. Resources from the federal government are sent to
each state to be administered through state PRONABES committees. 19 Even with
PRONABES’ substantial growth, the states have maintained a one-to-one contribution.
During the Project period, from 2006 to 2011, the federal government contributed
MX$7.8 billion, or 51.3 percent, and the states contributed MX$7.4 billion, or 48.7
percent. During this period, the federal contribution to PRONABES increased by 12.9
percent annually; the contributions of the states increased by 14 percent annually.  
 
58.     The Project contributed to improved communication and compliance between the
federal government and the states through its support to PRONABES’ Annual Meetings.
It also contributed through the design and implementation of the PRONABES financial
system which enables transparency and the use of timely financial data for
CNPRONABES to follow up with the states in cases where disbursements of state
scholarship resources are lagging.

59.     Political sustainability of PRONABES. Political support for PRONABES has
increased substantially under the Project. During Project implementation, there was a
substantial increase in federal government support for PRONABES from around
MX$248 million in 2001 to MX$849.8 million in 2006 (the first year of the Project) to
MX$1.6 billion in 2011. For the federal government, this represents a major shift towards
demand-side financing, which increased from less than 0.1 percent of public spending on
tertiary education in 2001 to 3.6 percent in 2006 and 4.6 percent in 2010. PRONABES
was one of the few federal programs that saw funding increase during the financial crisis.


19
  Although state financing plays an important role in financing PRONABES, it was never formally
included in the Project’s financing plan for legal reasons.


                                                  18
In addition, through the years, PRONABES has seen more higher education institutions
joining the program. For instance, in the school year 2008-09 the Directorate General of
Teacher Education and Training (Dirección General de Educación Normal y
Actualización del Magisterio, DGENAM) and the Directorate General of Technological
Higher Education (Dirección General de Educación Superior Tecnológica, DGEST)
joined the program. These steady increases in budget and in the number of higher
education institutions joining PRONABES bear witness to the perception of the
important role that PRONABES is playing in expanding opportunities in tertiary
education. Importantly in the PRONABES Sustainability Plan (Plan del Ejector para el
Mantenimiento futuro del Proyecto 2011), the Government has also committed to
continue promoting increased financing to sustain and expand PRONABES. As
mentioned earlier, the current Education Strategy explicitly mentions the governments’
intention to increase the coverage of PRONABES in all tertiary education subsystems.

60.     The Project has contributed to increased political support of the Program through
several activities including through its sponsorship of the Annual Meetings, and through
the improved MIS which enabled dissemination of PRONABES strong results through
the CNPRONABES website which includes, for example, CONEVAL’s Consistency
and Results Evaluation of PRONABES (2011-2012). In addition, several states such as
Veracruz, Guanajuato, Jalisco and Nuevo Leon have good websites with PRONABES
results. The results of the PRONABES impact evaluation that is underway and the study
of the effects of the early intervention to encourage talented upper secondary education
students to enroll in tertiary education will be made public to help maintain public
support for PRONABES.

61.     The Project design aimed to mainstream the Academic Support Units supported
by PAEIIES in participating tertiary education institutions with financing through their
budgets after Project financing ended. At present, 17 of the 24 universities that
participated in PAEIIES have indicated that they will maintain the program with their
own resources. ANUIES has confirmed that 12 of these tertiary education institutions
have agreed to provide at least 70 percent of the financing received under the Project.
ANUIES is also working with the other universities to get a similar level of commitment.

The Efficient Expansion of Tertiary Education

62.    Through its support to PRONABES scholarships and to PAEIIES, the Project
contributed to an increase in the number of higher education students that enter and
remain in university until the end of their program of studies. According to
CNPRONABES the program contributed, in 2009-10 and 2010-11, 15.8 and 16 percent
of the total number of students transitioning from upper secondary to public tertiary
education and 24 percent of the total number of graduates from public tertiary education
in the same years. The Project also financed improvements that helped PRONABES
maintain administrative costs at less than 1 percent of the budget for its scholarships.

63.   The annual retention rate of PRONABES beneficiaries in the 2010-2011 school
year was of 87.3 percent, exceeding the 75 percent target, and a considerable increase



                                           19
from the amount estimated for the 2003-04 school year (65.3 percent). This suggests that
PRONABES is relatively efficient in keeping the poorest students in higher education.
While terminal efficiency as defined in the PAD cannot be measured yet, it is possible to
estimate the proportion of PRONABES beneficiaries that finish tertiary education with
the new PRONABES data. In 2009-10, CNPRONABES started to collect data at a
student level, allowing the calculation of the retention rate from one year to the next.
These data show that an estimated 56.9 percent of students that started their first years of
studies with a PRONABES scholarship are likely to complete their studies20.

64.      In addition to the scholarships, the Project contributed to an efficient expansion of
tertiary education through its support to PAEIIES. The number of tertiary education
institutions participating in PAEIIES increased from 16 to 24 and the number of
Indigenous tertiary students benefiting from the PAEIIES program increased to almost
12,000 in 2010-11. 21 Seven out of the eight additional universities participating in
PAEIIES were in states with a high Indigenous population. Interviews during supervision
missions and in the final report from ANUIES revealed PAEIIES played an important
role in helping students adapt and stay in university. The change in retention rate of
students enrolled in PAEIIES increased from an estimated 10 percent in 2005-06 to 20
percent in 2010-11, a substantial increase although short of the 25 percent target. The
GPA of indigenous students in PAEIIES went down by -0.1, a modest decline that fell
short of the adjusted end-of-project target of a 0.3 point improvement.22

65.     Overall, the administrative costs (including both state and federal expenditures)
for PRONABES are less than one percent of the total budget for scholarships23. This
compares favorably to other scholarship programs. For example, the Pell Grant program
in the United States has operational costs equivalent to 2.9 percent in 2011. Improved
efficiency was also seen in the switch to an on-line national application process for all
states and public institutions of higher education.

66.      The mechanisms that the Project financed that contributed to PRONABES
keeping its administrative costs low in spite of a rapidly growing scholarship program
are: (i) a new financial system that provides accurate and up to date information to
CNPRONABES allowing it to improve fiduciary management and to follow up with the
states rapidly when there are delays, (ii) training of staff in the financial system, (iii) the
modernization of the CNPRONABES website which permits students to fill in a national
application form on-line, and thus lowers PRONABES and student transaction costs, and
(iv) a strengthened statistical MIS with data gathered through the new application, which


20
   The actual figure is likely to be higher because this estimate is based on a 5 year program. In fact,
PRONABES beneficiaries study diverse programs in terms of content and length. There are higher
education programs that can last three years or less (the percentage of PRONABES students in this
programs is around 17 percent). The equivalent figure for students in three year programs is 66.4 percent.
21
   The PAD indicated that there were 10 participating institutions. By 2003, 11 institutions had joined the
program. Another 5 joined in 2005, as the Project was being prepared.
22
   However, it is difficult to attach much significance to these minor changes in the GPA in either direction
form an already fairly high GPA over 8.
23
   Reglas de Operación de PRONABES 2012.


                                                     20
has improved communications and collaboration with state offices and with
Oportunidades, and helps monitor applicants to eliminate duplicate applications and
quickly identify those from targeted groups.

67.    In addition, a number of measures to improve PRONABES efficiency were
agreed at the PRONABES Annual Meetings. For example, in 2009, an agreement
(through a Memorandum of Understanding) with the Oportunidades program to
disseminate information on PRONABES and coordinate activities was reached. And, in
2011, a reduction of the paperwork requirement for applicants with income from the
informal sector was agreed, reducing the transaction costs for rural students.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

68.     The Project was a good investment. Based on the assumption in the economic
analysis, the rate ranged from 3.6 percent to 4.5 percent (Annex 3). This does not include
the value of increasing equity and improving the Project’s administration, which is part of
the Project’s economic contribution that was not accounted for in the economic analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.      The Project’s design and development objectives remain highly relevant to
Mexico’s current development challenges and the priorities of the Bank’s partnership
with Mexico. The Project’s objectives with respect to equity were largely achieved
through the key role that the Project played in supporting PRONABES scholarships and
improving their targeting. In addition, the Project contributed to important advances in
PRONABES, including improved communication with public tertiary education
institutions and the states, and more efficient student application through an on-line
national system available in all states. It also contributed to improved financial
management. The Project contributed to sustainability of the expansion of tertiary
education through its support to PRONABES’ improved systems which help monitor
continued one-to-one federal state contributions to the scholarship program and provide
timely and accurate data which, among others, has provided inputs to the last CONEVAL
2011-12 evaluation of the program now available to the public. Since only the means to
achieve Project objectives were revised in the March 2010 restructuring, and not the
Project objectives themselves, the ICR does not assess separately outcomes before and
after the restructuring.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.    The expansion of the number of PRONABES beneficiaries coming from
households earning less than four times the minimum salary and the increase in the share
of Indigenous people, Oportunidades recipients and females have been positive in terms
of supporting poverty reduction, gender equality, and social development.


                                            21
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

71.     As explained, the Project supported important institutional changes occurred at
PRONABES to strengthen its capacity. PRONABES expanded its professional staff,
improved its management information systems, clarified the division of labor between its
national and state programs, improved its financial management, and sharpened the pro-
poor targeting of its scholarships.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

72.     Most supervision missions included interviews and surveys of recipients. The
students contributed a number of suggestions that were then relayed back to PRONABES,
including ideas for reducing the transaction costs for the application and renewal of
scholarships and ideas for outreach to upper secondary students. In general, the students
reported that while they greatly appreciated the support, the support paid only for part of
their studies. This problem was especially severe for students from larger families. This
finding led to a debate on the size of the scholarship and how to treat students from larger
families. A survey to state operators conducted in 2011 and Annual Meetings showed that
in some states there were problems with the Banking system. This led to sharing of
experience among the states and changes in the banking practices in many states.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Rating: Moderate

73.      The overall risk to the Project’s development outcomes is moderate. There is
widespread support at both the federal and state level of the PRONABES program.
Federal funding is contingent on a one-to-one state contribution, and states have
consistently increased their support to match the increasing federal contribution. In
addition, public dissemination of CONEVAL’s positive evaluations of PRONABES are
expected to help maintain support. CNPRONABES has its own budget for operational
costs which has enabled it to hire specialized staff, including in scholarship programs,
socioeconomic analysis, management information systems, financial management, and
MIS, that have substantially increased it capacity, including to coordinate the program
with the states. In addition, targeting and financial management improvements have been
institutionalized throughout PRONABES through improved information embedded in the
MIS and financial system, and have been incorporated in PRONABES’ operational rules.

74.    Targeting criteria continue to be refined and improved. For example, starting in
2012, targeting criteria and their application were further modified to give priority also to
students with disabilities. In 2012, PRONABES also made further adjustments to



                                             22
eligibility requirements to better target poor students from large households. It also
changed the way family income is calculated; it is now divided by the number of
household members using a per capita approach, whereas before the household income
was taken independently of the number of family members.

75.    In addition, PRONABES continues to improve its efficiency. In 2012, for
example, a reduction in the transaction costs for returning beneficiaries was put in place
and general administrative and financial formats must now be used by all states.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

76.     While the design of Component 1.1, support for PRONABES, was sound, with
hindsight there were significant shortcomings in overall Project preparation and design.
There was a discrepancy within the PAD and between the PAD and the Loan Agreement
in the statement of the PDO. The M&E framework had significant weaknesses as
previously discussed. Due diligence with respect to implementing arrangements was
inadequate, resulting in a mismatch between the responsibilities of PRONABES and its
authorities. Adequate due diligence was also lacking with respect to the interest of states
in Project support to strengthen their student lending programs. Other risks to Project
implementation, notably that government priorities might shift following the change in
government and that an economic downturn might render development of student loan
programs infeasible, were not adequately assessed and mitigated. The lack of agreed
drafts of key documents at the time of negotiations created a fertile terrain for significant
implementation delays, as did the lack of a clear understanding and commitment
regarding the timing for provision of budget for all Project components. Finally, Project
design was too ambitious and complex, including policy and institutional issues that
would require extensive analytical work and evaluation along with elements that were
ready for implementation. This was particularly worrisome given the small number of
PRONABES staff during preparation and effectiveness.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.    Supervision was conducted in at least two missions per year. The Bank
consistently drew to the attention of the implementing agencies the need to complete the
requirements for effectiveness, provide budget for all components, resolve the legal and
administrative complexities that were holding up the transfer of resources from SEP to
ANUIES, reach agreement on a loan to a state under Component 4, accelerate progress
on evaluations and other analytical work, adjust outcome baselines in light of new
information, and provide timely and complete monitoring data on progress towards
Project outcomes. Supervision of financial management issues intensified in 2007-09



                                             23
when, in addition to the full missions, several specialized missions were conducted which
agreed and then followed up on detailed action plans to resolve disbursement, audit, and
other problems. The Bank provided training to staff in both fiduciary and technical areas.
Most missions included field visits and meetings with students, state authorities, and
tertiary education institutions.

78.     With hindsight, however, supervision might have been improved in certain areas.
An opportunity was missed at the time of Project restructuring to strengthen
implementation arrangements and revise formally Project outcome indicators. Although
this was discussed with the Government, it was felt that that the M&E system, while
improved, was likely to be subject to further change. It is also acknowledged that
procurement and disbursement processes could have benefited from greater efficiency
across the board, which would have limited some of the delays discussed earlier.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.    While there were significant shortcomings during preparation leading to quality at
entry problems, the Bank made a concerted effort to address these shortcomings through
supervision and technical support.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

80.     The government’s performance was satisfactory. Provision of budget to
PRONABES for the scholarship program under Component 1.1 was timely and increased
significantly during Project implementation. Loan disbursements were initially slow. As
of end-2007, they had reached only US$14.5 million, or 8.5 percent of the IBRD loan
amount, notwithstanding the scope for retroactive finance. Even though PRONABES
continued to execute its budget in a timely fashion, disbursements only reached 48.2
percent of the loan amount, or US$82.4 million by the end of 2009. This was a minor
shortcoming as the loan was fully disbursed by its revised closing date.

(b) Implementing Agency’s or Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     PRONABES executed its steadily increasing budget in a timely fashion. It
allocated scholarships in accordance with the targeted distribution among household
income levels. It also achieved its targets with respect to shares of Indigenous students
and beneficiaries of the Oportunidades program. In addition, it made improvements that
reduced transactions costs, clarified the division of labor between the federal and state
levels, and strengthened internal controls. Likewise, PRONABES could have been more
proactive in seeking budget authority for Project components early in implementation,
and in resolving the legal and administrative complexities of granting loan proceeds to
ANUIES. Also, more attention to designing and executing the studies envisioned under



                                           24
Components 2.2 and 2.3 would have improved SEP’s performance, as would greater
attention to the piloting of early interventions under Component 3.1.

82.     BANOBRAS performed well in its role as fiduciary agent for the loan to the
government. With reference to the separate US$9 million loan that the Bank offered it for
the purpose of supporting state student loan programs, BANOBRAS might have been
able to improve its performance by enhancing communications with the State of Quintana
Roo and/or other states in order to address their concerns. This is a moderate
shortcoming; reaching agreement with any state was the responsibility of BANOBRAS
but other factors, including the economic downturn and changes in government at the
state level, also contributed to the outcome.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     There were both strengths in Borrower performance and moderate shortcomings.
Delays and missed opportunities should not obscure the substantial achievements of the
Project.

6. Lessons Learned

      The Project was excessively complex both in terms of its activity and its
       management structure, in particular covering activities that were out of the control
       and influence of the Project manager. Institutional arrangements for projects
       should take into account capacity as well as span of control of the implementing
       agency(s).
      For a complex project, it is important to address legal issues during project
       preparation. Implementation would have been smoother and more timely if agreed
       versions of the grant agreement between SEP to ANUIES and the loan agreement
       between BANOBRAS and ICEEQROO had been ready at the time of Project
       negotiation, as well as clear evidence that Project-supported activities would be
       included in the budget. In the specific case where legal agreement between federal
       and state governments are required for some loan components, consideration
       could be given to preparing separate simpler loans.
      In a sophisticated middle-income country like Mexico, it is not possible to ring-
       fence a Bank-financed project from the broader, more complex government
       program. In the case of this Project, as the size of the PRONABES program
       expanded, Project restructuring could have included a revision in the Project
       financing plan to include all government financing to PRONABES. Even without
       this inclusion, however, Project impact went beyond Project financing since
       technical assistance influenced all of PRONABES operations and not just those
       financed by the Project.
      Where Project finance is not additional, but rather a source of financing for the
       overall fiscal budget, a clear understanding about how budget for project-
       supported activities is provided is essential. In the case of this Project, activities in



                                              25
       Components 2 and 3 were not part of the budget until 2009, delaying
       implementation.
      It is important to ensure that objectives and targets are realistic and carefully set at
       the onset. In the absence of an adequately designed M&E framework, early
       adjustment of baselines and targets is desirable.
      It is also important to ensure that the M&E framework is aligned with the
       implementing agency’s capacity. Where capacity is insufficient, a concerted effort
       should be undertaken in the first year of project implementation to strengthen
       management information systems, refine the baselines and monitoring indicators,
       and determine the methodology for assessing them. For this Project, there were
       widely acknowledged issues regarding the precision and reliability of data that
       were not addressed until late during implementation of the Project.
      More care is needed to mitigate against the impact on projects due to a change in
       administration (as happened with respect to this Project in 2006) that is often
       accompanied by changes that reach far down into the executive. Rather than rush
       to ensure that projects are effective before a new administration takes office
       without attention to risk mitigating measures, project design should anticipate and
       mitigate against capacity disruptions that are often inevitable with a change in
       government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

84.     The Borrower through BANOBRAS submitted written comments on the ICR.
These have been included in Annex 7. The comments emphasized the efforts of the
government to ensure that the Project met its development objectives. The borrower also
expressed concern with the slow pace of issuing some procurement No Objections and
the delay in the final loan disbursement. Changes were made to the following sections to
incorporate this comment: (i) Fiduciary Compliance and (ii) Bank Performance (quality
of supervision). In response to further communication with BANOBRAS several smaller
changes were made to the ICR including: (i) referencing the Aide Memoire where
revisions to the indicators were agreed between de government and the Bank and, (ii)
adding to the lessons learned the possibility of separate simpler loans.

85.     SEP (PRONABES) also provided several very useful clarifications which were
incorporated into this ICR. These include (i) minor revisions to some numerical facts/data
taking into account most recent officially published information; (ii) suggestion to add to
lessons learned on the importance of setting realistic objectives and targets in the M&E
framework, and adjusting in the course of implementation as needed.




                                             26
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                      27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                              millions)
1. Support for PRONABES
national scholarship program and
for the development of the                  281.23              284.09           1.01
national regulatory framework for
tertiary education
2. Analysis and Institutional
                                              1.73                0.76           43.9
Strengthening
3. Support for Disadvantaged
                                              5.92                4.03           68.1
Students
4. Support for State-level Student
                                             10.58                0.00           0.00
Loan Programs
5. Promotion of private
                                              0.12                0.00           0.00
investments in students loans
             Total Baseline Cost            299.58              289.88           96.8
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00           0.00
             Total Project Costs            299.58              289.88           96.8
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.42                0.42          100.00
     Total Financing Required               300.00              290.30           96.8




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              119.57      119.30        99.80
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       180.00      171.00      95.00
and Development




                                                28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component/Subcomponent                        Project Outputs
Component 1
Subcomponent 1.1 Support for the PRONABES     Financial support provided to deliver 1,276,053 PRONABES scholarships from 2006-
National Scholarship Program                  2011. PAEES financed approximately 390,000 PRONABES scholarships from 2006-
                                              2011.
                                              Intensive technical assistance through 2009, 2010 and 2011 provided by procurement
                                              and financial management specialists to manage adequately the Project and the
                                              expanding budget of PRONABES.
                                              Development of Administrative Manuals required to operate PRONABES in 2009.
Subcomponent 1.2 Development of a national    Design, development and implementation of the PRONABES improved Statistical on-
regulatory framework for tertiary education   line System (Sistema de Información Estadística) by school year 2009-2010.
student assistance.                           Design of the Financial System (Sistema de Información Financiera para el seguimiento
                                              del Programa Nacional de Becas y del Programa de Asistencia a Estudiantes de
                                              Educación Superior) in 2010 and piloting of the same system in 2011.
                                              Financial and technical support to conduct PRONABES Annual Meetings that brought
                                              together federal and state officials managing PRONABES with technical specialists and
                                              representatives from other programs (e.g. Oportundiades, CONEVAL) to take informed
                                              collective decisions affecting, among others the selection criteria of PRONABES
                                              students.
Component 2
Subcomponent 2.1 Promotion and Information    With additional support from the IADB the Federal Secretariat of Labor and Social
Dissemination                                 Protection (STPS) strengthened the Labor Market Observatory. In addition, SEP also
                                              created its own website, “Decide Your Career?
Subcomponent 2.2 Analysis and Institutional   International Conference on the feasibility of developing a student loan system for
Framework – Regulatory Framework              tertiary education (1er. Foro Internacional sobre Modelos de Crédito Educativo.
                                              Experiencias en su Diseño, Operación e Impacto) organized in 2011 in Tijuana, Mexico
                                              to provide an analytical base to strength tertiary education policy through discussing




                                                          29
Component/Subcomponent                             Project Outputs
                                                   financing alternatives of tertiary education and the feasibility for a reimbursable grant
                                                   program.
Subcomponent 2.3 Analysis and Institutional        Design of the PRONABES impact evaluation on equity of, access to, and completion of
Framework – Evaluation of Student Assistance       tertiary education
Programs
Component 3
Component 3.1 Early Interventions to Assist        A baseline study (with an experimental design) was carried out to explore how student
Talented Disadvantaged Students                    guidance and measures to promote higher expectations among students affect access to
                                                   tertiary education for poor students.
Component 3.2 Expansion of the Indigenous          Financing to support universities to establish Academic Support Units to provide
Students Assistance Program                        academic and non-academic support to Indigenous students, including tutoring,
                                                   counseling, support to apply for financial aid programs (including PRONABES), and
                                                   orientation to new entrants.
Component 4 Support for state-level student loan   None
programs
Component 5 Promotion on Private investments       None
in student loan




                                                               30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This Annex reviews the quality and relevance economic analysis carried out during
project preparation. It also provides an ex-post review of the project’s economic impact
by estimating the cost and benefit of the project with final data to evaluate the
appropriateness of the ex-ante estimates.

Project Preparation

During project preparation, the World Bank carried out an extensive review of the
economic literature on the value of tertiary education. This review included the equity
impact of the higher education to help understand how different groups benefit from
higher education and study of how returns to education have changed with time. The
economic analysis also considered the value of higher education to Indigenous students.
It is clear that the economic analysis (and the thinking behind it) played an important role
in the dialogue with the Government to design the Project and to identify alternatives. In
this sense, the economic analysis is better practice and made a real difference in the
preparation of the Project and the Government’s policy towards higher education
financing. In addition, it is clear that the economic analysis contributed to the
development of the Indigenous People’s Plan. It played an important role in the decision
to develop a non-financial program to develop compensatory programs to help
Indigenous students “catch-up? with the rest of the population.

Cost-Benefit Analysis

The economic analysis also included a cost-analysis to justify the intervention in the
sector and the expected rates of return on investment in PRONABES. Both of these
analyses draw heavily on the previously reviewed economic literature and use this as a
source for the underlying assumption.

     A. Sectorial Rate of Return

Prior to project approval, the estimated individual financial rate of return to tertiary
education in Mexico was estimated to around 16 percent; the individual economic rate of
return (i.e. netting out the public subsidy for education) is around 8 percent.24 While
there have not been any recent published studies on the individual returns to higher
education in Mexico, a recent review in Europe showed economic rates of return for
higher education around 8 percent.25 This is supported by studies that show the growing
contribution of education, particularly higher levels of education to economic growth.26


24
   This is identified in the PAD as the “social rate of return? but it clearly does not include any social
benefits to higher education or capture any positive externalities.
25
   Pscharopoulos, 2009. “Returns to Education in Higher Education: A European Survey.? Unpublished
mimeo.
26
   For example, see Hanushek and Wossmann 2007. “Education Quality and Economic Growth.
Washington: World Bank.


                                                   31
Given these direct and social benefits, investing in higher education remains a good
investment and the assumptions made during the preparation of the project remain valid.

   B. Project Rate of Return

The Project’s cost-benefit analysis focused exclusively on the impact of PRONABES.
Given the large role of PRONABES in the Project (estimated at around 90 percent at the
time of project preparation), this decision made sense. Likewise, given the lack of data on
the performance of PRONABES (it was only four years old at the time of Project
preparation) and the lack of previous evaluation, the cost-benefit analysis was prospective,
based on the assumptions and data available at the time. This approach made sense, given
the availability of information.

The analysis estimated a range of economic rates of returns to the Project, ranging from
2.9 percent to 10.3 percent depending on the Project’s impact on enrollment and
graduation rates.

The primary underlying assumptions include:

      PRONABES will primarily impact on the number of students staying in
       higher education and improve graduation rates. This appears to be a
       reasonable assumption and is confirmed by numerous interviews with students
       during project supervision. PRONABES has initiated an impact evaluation that
       will provide further evidence on this point.
      The entire impact of PRONABES is explained by the increase in income
       caused by the higher graduation rate. While it is important to take into the
       personal benefits of the scholarship program in the project benefits calculations,
       there are at least two other impacts that could have been quantified. First, the
       impact of the Project on reducing poverty and improving equity. Second, the
       positive externality associated with an increased of tertiary graduates. The
       estimates here include a calculation of the number of poor people lifted from
       poverty.
      The individual rate of return remains constant over the length of the Project.
       Although this assumption was not explicitly state in the PAD, it was used for
       estimation of the Project benefits. Although the rates of returns would have
       dropped during the economic crisis, the analysis should be based on the long-term
       rate of return of education. Based on this, the cost-benefit calculation here is
       calculated for an individual economic rate of returns ranging from 7 percent to 10
       percent. The higher estimates in the range are probably more realistic since there
       is a growing trend for higher levels of education. The range also provides an easy
       way to consider the social externalities associated with having more tertiary
       graduates.



                                            32
The Project had a positive rate of return, ranging from 3.6 percent to 4.5 percent.
This estimate is based on a terminal efficiency rate of 63.3%, which is based on the
observed graduation rate for PRONABES students. While this tends to be on the lower
end of the estimates presented in the PAD it is positive and justifies the Project from an
efficient use of capital perspective.

The Project plays a major role in breaking the intergenerational cycle of poverty,
allowing an estimated 115,000 to 175,000 people to leave poverty27. This based on the
assumption that a certain percentage of otherwise poor beneficiaries permanently poverty
for the rest of their lives. While the individual benefits of this increase in income is
accounted for above, this has a substantial impact on the government budget. Mexico
provides poor households with a substantial range of services, including conditional cash
transfers (Oportunidades), health insurance (Seguro Popular), among others. Using
conservative estimates of the future cost of these programs and assumptions about future
family sizes, this would generate an additional rate of return between 4.7 percent
and 11.9 percent.

Based on this analysis, the ICR concludes that the Project was a good investment.
The overall returns to the investment, appears to be in the range of 8.3 percent to 16.4
percent, taking into account the direct benefits to scholarship beneficiaries and the
savings to the government from future social programs.




27
  These calculations are based on the total benefits to the PRONABES during the Project period. Scaling
back the benefits to cover the beneficiaries financed by IBRD has no effect on the estimated rate of return.



                                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                            Title            Unit
Lending
Andreas Blom                Sr Education Econ.              SASED
Lea D. Braslavsky           Consultant                      LCSPT
Maria E. Colchao            Senior Program Assistant        LCSHE
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde Finance Officer                 CTRLN
Vicente B. Paqueo           Consultant                      EASHD
Harry Anthony Patrinos      Lead Education Economist        HDNED
Mariangeles Sabella         Senior Counsel                  LEGLA
Supervision/ICR
Eric P. Bettinger           Consultant                      LCSHE
Andreas Blom                Sr Education Econ.              SASED
Erik A. Bloom               Senior Economist                LCSHE
Maria E. Castro-Munoz       Consultant                      LCSHH
Maria E. Colchao            Senior Program Assistant        LCSHE
Alina Garduno Lozano        Temporary                       LCSHD
Dmitri Gourfinkel           Financial Management Analyst    LCSFM
Mark V. Hagerstrom          Country Program Coordinator     EACIQ
Martha Belem Hernandez
                            Consultant                      LCSHE
Zavala
Efraim Jimenez              Consultant                      LCSUW
Jose M. Martinez            Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSO2
Jose Carlos Martinez
                                                            LCSFR
Gonzalez
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde Finance Officer                 CTRLN
Gabriel Penaloza            Procurement Analyst             LCSPT
Felix Prieto Arbelaez       Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT
Domenec Ruiz Devesa         Junior Professional Associate   LCSHE
Anna Maria Sant'Anna        Consultant                      LCSHE
Tomas Socias                Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT
Aracelly G. Woodall         Senior Program Assistant        LCSTR
Antonella Novali            Program Assistant               LCSHE




                                       34
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                        17.75                     94.86
  FY05                                        52.45                    276.44
  FY06                                        18.02                     88.48
                         Subtotal:            88.22                    459.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                       4.06                       27.88
  FY07                                      21.57                       95.76
  FY08                                      31.61                      120.47
  FY09                                      25.66                      120.88
  FY10                                      28.26                      133.77
  FY11                                      24.34                      103.58
  FY12                                      14.63                       99.09
                         Subtotal:         150.13                      701.43
                           Total:          238.35                    1,161.21




                                         35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(If any)

N/A




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


  BANOBRAS OPINION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TERTIARY
  EDUCATION STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PAEES), PARTIALLY
   FUNDED WITH LOAN RESOURCES 7346-ME OF THE WORLD BANK
                      (Informal translation)

BACKGROUND:

The World Bank lent US$171,000,000 to the Mexican government (SHCP) with a loan
agreement signed between the two bodies on April 7, 2006, to finance part of the
Secretariat of Education’s (SEP) Tertiary Education Student Assistance Project, PAEES,
whose closing date was scheduled for March 1, 2010.

The project’s objective was to support the federal government's strategy to promote the
sustainable, equitable and efficient expansion of higher education through student aid
through the development of a coherent system of educational assistance, consisting of
student loan programs and scholarship, compensatory interventions for disadvantaged
students and support to the national higher education policy.

At the request of SEP, and with the approval of the Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, SHCP), BANOBRAS as the Federal
Government’s financial agent negotiated with the World Bank an amendment to the loan
agreement to: (1) eliminate the student loan program, (2) modify the project objectives,
(3) relocate resources available by category of expenditure, and (4) extend the closing
date of the project until December 31, 2011, to allow time to the executing agency to
finish Project activities to achieve the Project objectives.

To carry out the implementation of the loan, SHCP, BANOBRAS, and SEP signed a
Project Execution Contract (Contrato de Mandato y de Ejecuación del Proyecto) on
September 1, 2006, which remained in force until the obligations under the loan
agreement were finalized.

PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING PROCESSES:

During the execution of the loan, BANOBRAS trained and supported staff from the
implementing agency (SEP) in the preparation of Procurement Plan (PA) and its
inclusion in the World Bank’s Procurement Plan Execution System (SEPA).

Also, BANOBRAS managed and obtained No Objections from the World Bank in the
tendering and contracting process for consulting firms that carried out technical studies,
as well as for specialists who were members of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

During the recruitment process and the specialists’ and consulting firms’ performance
period, the executing agency had difficulty making payments for contracted services due



                                           37
to SEP restrictions in the use of the annual budget; this circumstance led to delays in the
delivery of information to BANOBRAS. This situation was resolved, as SHCP
authorized the necessary resources.


DISBURSEMENT:

BANOBRAS processed the disbursement requests received from the SEP and submitted
them to the World Bank. This led to a full disbursement (100 percent) of the loan.

As mentioned earlier, the project implementation period ended on December 31st, 2011
and the World Bank granted the Government an administrative extension (grace period)
of four months (until April 30, 2012) to submit the final request for payment, based on
resources included in the financial statements for the year 2011.

All disbursed funds were deposited in a timely fashion in the Federal Treasury as directed
by the SHCP.


PROJECT PROGRESS REPORTS:

BANOBRAS reviewed the biannual Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) received from
SEP as part of its monitoring role in implementing the project. It made arrangements with
the implementing agency to make changes and sent the final FMR to World Bank to
comply with contractual commitments in a timely fashion.

Similarly, BANOBRAS prepared and delivered monthly and biannual reports in a timely
fashion to SHCP on the implementation of the project to comply with the commitments
made in the Project Execution Contract.

To comply with the commitments established in the loan agreement, BANOBRAS
requested that SEP develop a Plan to Ensure the Future Maintenance of the Project.
BANOBRAS delivered this Plan to the World Bank six months before the closing date
of the Project, as required. This was approved by the World Bank, in due course.

AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL RESOURCES:

BANOBRAS supported SEP in the delivery of information to the Internal Control Body
of SEP (OIC-SEP) to conduct annual audits of the Project.

During project implementation, BANOBRAS received from OIC-SEP annual audit
reports that were used to obtain agreement from the World Bank within the established
time as agreed in the loan agreement. (It should be noted that the review of the Audit
Report of the Project undertaken by the OIC-SEP for the year 2011 is still pending. This
should be sent to BANOBRAS in mid-June 2012, for review; and if appropriate,
delivered to the World Bank no later than June 30, 2012).



                                            38
CONCLUSIONS:

The implementation of the project by the SEP, with support provided by the financial
agent, was satisfactory as this operation was closed to the satisfaction of the World Bank.

The execution of this loan is considered satisfactory, because in general terms an
important number of beneficiaries were granted a PRONABES scholarship.
PRONABES beneficiaries increased from 161,787 in the 2005-2006 school year at
project start, to 320, 828 during the 2011-2012 school year to end of the Project.

It is important to note that the Project provided financial support and assistance to
indigenous students around the country, through an agreement between SEP and the
National Association of Universities and Institutions of Higher Education (ANUIES) to
finance its Program for Assistance to Indigenous Students in Tertiary Education
Institutions (PAEIIES), which supported a large number of students. For example, when
the Program began in 2009 had 9,600 students enrolled and in 2011 it has reached to
nearly 12,000 students.

The World Bank's performance was not ideal, because, there were delays in the process
of obtaining the No Objection for tendering and contracting specialists, consultants and
service companies. Moreover, during the final disbursement of the loan, there was a
delay since the World Bank did not make timely arrangements for recording contracts in
their internal system, which delayed the World Bank’s Disbursement Unit in Brazil to
make the payment requested by BANOBRAS.

The Project had the timely intervention of the Internal Control Body of SEP, which
followed the Project’s results, and intervened as required to correct the executing agency
and to improve its performance.

Also, it is important to note the timely participation of the Directorate General for
External Audits of the Secretariat of Public Service (Secretaría de la Función Pública,
SFP), to ensure that reports submitted to the World Bank complied with the provisions
laid down in agreements between the Government and the World Bank (Memorandum of
Understanding).

The valuable support of the International Affairs Unit of the SHCP, should be mentioned
as borrower and to resolve institutional difficulties that arose during the Project
implementation.

BANOBRAS’ performance as financial agent in this operation can be rated as
satisfactory, since it supported the executing agency at all times in compliance with its
commitments. BANOBRAS carried out its role as intermediary between the executing
agency and the World Bank, and carried out a timely and on-going monitoring and
review of the Project’s performance, which was reported to the International Affairs Unit
at SHCP in a timely manner.



                                            39
It was a major challenge for BANOBRAS to have been the Federal Government’s
financial agent in this complex operation. BANOBRAS took on this challenge with
institutional responsibility and used all its human and technical-professional capacity, to
ensure at all times, that the executing agency fulfilled in an efficient and timely manner
the external commitments established with the World Bank in the loan agreement, and
with the Mexican government in the Project Execution Contract between SHCP and
BANOBRAS.

With the implementation of this operation, BANOBRAS gained extraordinary experience,
to add to its over 25 years of experience in managing international operations which will
be very valuable to continue administrating other operations as entrusted by Ministry of
Finance

LESSONS LEARNED:

This project is an excellent example for the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance to
learn lessons that no doubt will serve them when preparing other projects in education,
and will provide the Federal Government’s with evidence to select the financial agent to
administer the resources for a new loan.




                                            40
Spanish version received from the Government:

  OPINION DE BANOBRAS SOBRE LA EJECUCION DEL “PROYECTO DE
   ASISTENCIA A ESTUDIANTES DE EDUCACION SUPERIOR? (PAEES),
FINANCIADO PARCIALMENTE CON RECURSOS DEL PRESTAMO 7346-ME
                      DEL BANCO MUNDIAL

ANEXO No. 7 DEL IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS
REPORT (ICR).

ANTECEDENTES:
El Banco Mundial otorgó al gobierno mexicano (SHCP) un préstamo por
USD171´000,000 cuyo contrato se firmó entre ambas instancias el 7 de abril de
2006, destinado a financiar parcialmente a la Secretaría de Educación Pública
(SEP)el “Proyecto de Asistencia a Estudiantes de Educación Superior? (PAEES),
cuya fecha de cierre se programó para el 1 de marzo de 2010.
El objetivo del proyecto fue apoyar la estrategia del Gobierno Federal para
fomentar la expansión sostenible, equitativa y eficiente de la educación superior,
a través de ayuda a estudiantes por medio del desarrollo de un sistema
coherente de asistencia educativa, consistente en programas de crédito
educativo y de becas, intervenciones compensatorias para estudiantes en
desventaja y apoyo a la política nacional de educación superior.
A petición de la SEP, y con la aprobación de la SHCP, BANOBRAS como
agente financiero del Gobierno Federal, gestionó ante el Banco Mundial una
enmienda al contrato de préstamo, para: eliminar el programa de préstamos
estudiantiles, modificar el objetivo del proyecto, reubicar recursos disponibles por
categoría de desembolso, y extender la fecha de cierre del proyecto hasta el 31
de diciembre de 2011, para dar tiempo al ejecutor a concluir las acciones que le
permitieran lograr los objetivos del proyecto.
Para la ejecución del préstamo, la SHCP, BANOBRAS y la SEP firmaron un
“Contrato de Mandato y de Ejecución del Proyecto? el 1 de septiembre de 2006,
quedando vigente hasta que las obligaciones derivadas del mismo y de sus
partes integrantes, se hayan extinguido.

PROCESOS DE ADQUISICIONES Y CONTRATACIONES.
Durante la ejecución del préstamo, BANOBRAS capacitó y apoyó al personal del
ejecutor (SEP) en la preparación del Plan de Adquisiciones (PA) y su inclusión
en el “Sistema de Ejecución del Plan de Adquisiciones? (SEPA) del Banco
Mundial.

Así mismo, BANOBRAS gestionó ante el Banco Mundial la obtención de las No
Objeciones en los procesos de licitaciones y contrataciones de las empresas
consultoras que realizaron los estudios, como los especialistas que integraron la
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP).




                                         41
Durante los procesos de contratación y ejecución de acciones de los
especialistas y de las empresas consultoras; el ejecutor tuvo dificultades para
realizar los pagos por los servicios contratados, debido a restricciones en el
ejercicio presupuestal de la SEP; circunstancia que generó retrasos en la
entrega de información a BANOBRAS; situación que se resolvió, en la medida
en que el área de presupuesto de la SHCP liberó los recursos.

DESEMBOLSO DE RECURSOS.
BANOBRAS gestionó ante el Banco Mundial las solicitudes de desembolso que
recibió de la SEP, habiendo logrado desembolsar el 100% de los recursos del
préstamo.

Como se mencionó inicialmente, el proyecto concluyó su periodo de ejecución el
31 de diciembre de 2011; motivo por el que, el Banco Mundial otorgó al ejecutor
una prórroga administrativa de cuatro meses (hasta el 30 de abril de 2012), para
que le presentara la última solicitud de desembolso, cuyo monto de recursos fue
incluido en los estados financieros del ejercicio 2011.

Los recursos desembolsados del préstamo fueron depositados en la Tesorería
de la Federación, en su momento, conforme a las indicaciones de la SHCP.

INFORMES DE AVANCE DEL PROYECTO.
BANOBRAS revisó los Reportes de Monitoreo Financiero (FMR´s) semestrales
que recibió de la SEP, como parte de los avances en la ejecución del proyecto,
hizo las gestiones necesarias con el ejecutor para que hiciera los cambios
procedentes, y los envió al Banco Mundial, para dar cumplimiento oportuno a los
compromisos contractuales.

De igual manera, BANOBRAS elaboró y entregó a la SHCP los informes
mensuales y semestrales, sobre el comportamiento del proyecto, para dar
cumplimiento oportuno a los compromisos asumidos en el contrato de mandato.

Para dar cumplimiento a los compromisos establecidos en el contrato de
préstamo, BANOBRAS solicitó a la SEP con el tiempo debido, la elaboración de
un “Plan del ejecutor para asegurar el mantenimiento futuro del proyecto?, BANOBRAS
lo entregó al Banco Mundial seis meses antes de la fecha de cierre del proyecto,
conforme a lo requerido; mismo que fue aprobado por ese Banco y comunicado al
ejecutor, oportunamente.

AUDITORIA AL EJERCICIO DE LOS RECURSOS.
BANOBRAS apoyó a la SEP en la entrega de información, para que el Órgano
Interno de Control (OIC) en la SEP realizara la auditoría al proyecto, de manera
anual.

Durante la ejecución del proyecto, BANOBRAS recibió del OIC-SEP los informes
de auditoría anual, mismos que gestionó y obtuvo la conformidad del Banco
Mundial, en los tiempos establecidos en el contrato de préstamo.


                                        42
(Cabe señalar, que está pendiente la revisión del Informe de Auditoría del
proyecto, que está realizando el OIC-SEP por el ejercicio 2011, mismo que
deberá remitir a BANOBRAS, a mediados del mes de junio del año en curso,
para su revisión; y en caso procedente, entregarlo al Banco Mundial a más tardar
el 30 de junio de 2012).

CONCLUSIONES.
Se considera que la ejecución del proyecto por parte de la SEP, con el apoyo
proporcionado por el agente financiero, fue satisfactoria; habiendo cerrado esta
operación a entera satisfacción del Banco Mundial.

La ejecución de este préstamo se considera satisfactoria, debido a que en
términos generales se logró el otorgamiento de becas a un número importante de
beneficiarios, al pasar de 161,787 en el ciclo escolar 2005-2006 al inicio del
proyecto, a 320, 828 durante el ciclo escolar 2011-2012 al final del mismo.

De los resultados obtenidos cabe destacar, el apoyo económico y asistencial que
se dio a los estudiantes indígenas en todo el país, a través del convenio que la
SEP celebró con la “Asociación Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones de
Educación Superior? (ANUIES), para financiar su “Programa de Apoyo a
Estudiantes Indígenas en Instituciones de Educación Superior? (PAEIIES)?, con
el que se logró apoyar a un número importante de estudiantes; por ejemplo, al
inicio de este programa en 2009 se tenían 9,600 estudiantes inscritos en el
programa, habiendo llegado a finales de 2011 a cerca de 12,000 estudiantes.

El desempeño del Banco Mundial no fue de los mejores en esta operación;
debido a que, se presentaron retrasos en las gestiones para obtener las No
Objeciones a los procesos de licitación y contratación de especialistas, de
empresas consultoras y de servicios; además, en el último desembolso del
préstamo, se generó un retraso atribuido a que el Banco Mundial no realizó a
tiempo gestiones para registrar los contratos en su sistema interno, que
permitiera al área de desembolsos del Banco Mundial en Brasil realizar el
desembolso solicitado por BANOBRAS.
El proyecto contó con la intervención oportuna del Órgano Interno de Control en
la SEP, instancia que estuvo al pendiente de los resultados del proyecto, e
intervino en los casos que ameritó corregir al ejecutor,y encausarle el rumbo de
su actuación.

Así mismo, cabe mencionar la oportuna participación de la Dirección General de
Auditorías Externas de la Secretaría de la Función Pública, para asegurar que
los informes que se entregan al Banco Mundial cumplieran con las disposiciones
establecidas en los convenios celebrados entre ambas instancias (Memorandum
de Entendimiento).
Cabe mencionar, que siempre se contó con el valioso apoyo de la Unidad de
Asuntos Internacionales de la SHCP, como prestatario del préstamo, para



                                       43
resolver institucionalmente las dificultades que se presentaron durante la
ejecución del proyecto.
El desempeño de BANOBRAS como agente financiero en esta operación, se
puede calificar de satisfactoria, al haber apoyado al ejecutor en todo momento en
el cumplimiento de sus compromisos. BANOBRAS desempeñó su función de
intermediario entre el ejecutor y el Banco Mundial, y llevó un seguimiento puntual
y permanente sobre el comportamiento del proyecto; situación que reportó a la
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de la SHCP, de manera oportuna.

Para BANOBRAS, el haber sido agente financiero del Gobierno Federal en esta
compleja operación, le significó un gran reto que asumió con responsabilidad
institucional, en el que puso en práctica toda su capacidad profesional humana y
técnica, para asegurar en todo momento, que el ejecutor cumpliera de manera
eficiente y oportuna con los compromisos externos establecidos con el Banco
Mundial en el contrato de préstamo; y con el gobierno mexicano, en el contrato
de mandato formalizado con la SHCP y BANOBRAS.

Con la ejecución de esta operación, BANOBRAS ganó una experiencia
extraordinaria, que sumada a la que ya tiene en la administración de operaciones
internacionales durante los últimos 25 años, le será de gran utilidad en la
administración de otras operaciones que la SHCP le encomiende, conforme a las
funciones naturales de su ramo.

LECCIONES POR APRENDER.
Este proyecto es un excelente ejemplo, del que el Banco Mundial y la SHCP
pueden obtener valiosas lecciones; que sin duda, les servirán al momento de
preparar otro proyecto en materia educativa, y se elija con elementos de juicio
sólidos al agente financiero del Gobierno Federal que administre los recursos de
un nuevo préstamo.




                                        44
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

CNPRONABES. 2012. PRONABES data and indicators. (Not published)

CONEVAL. 2012. Evaluación de Consistencia y resultados 2011-2012. Programa
Nacional de Becas y Financiamiento, PRONABES. Mexico.

Government of Mexico. 2007. Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, 2007-2012. Poder Ejecutivo
Federal (Presidencia de la República). Mexico.

Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía. 2008. Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y
Gastos de los Hogares, ENIGH. Mexico.

Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía. 2010. Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y
Gastos de los Hogares, ENIGH. Mexico.

PRONABES.2011. Plan del Ejecutor para el Mantenimiento futuro del Proyecto, 2011.
Mexico.

Secretaría de Educación Pública (Diario Oficial de la Federación). December, 2007.
ACUERDO número 418 por el que se emiten las Reglas de Operación del Programa
Nacional de Becas y Financiamiento (PRONABES). Mexico.

Secretaría de Educación Pública (Diario Oficial de la Federación). December, 2009.
ACUERDO número 500 por el que se emiten las Reglas de Operación del Programa
Nacional de Becas y Financiamiento (PRONABES). Mexico.

Secretaría de Educación Pública (Diario Oficial de la Federación). December, 2010.
ACUERDO número 575 por el que se emiten las Reglas de Operación del Programa
Nacional de Becas y Financiamiento (PRONABES). Mexico.

Secretaría de Educación Pública (Diario Oficial de la Federación). December, 2011.
ACUERDO número 601 por el que se emiten las Reglas de Operación del Programa
Nacional de Becas y Financiamiento (PRONABES). Mexico.

Secretaría de Educación Pública. 2007. Programa Sectorial de Educación 2007-2012.
Mexico.

World Bank. May 1, 2005. Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
Washington, DC.

World Bank. November 2005. Project Appraisal Document for a Tertiary Education
Student Assistance Project. Report No. 31727-ME. Washington, DC.

World Bank. April 7, 2006. Loan Agreement. Loan Number 7346-ME. Washington, DC.




                                        46
World Bank. February 10, 2010. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Restructuring of
Tertiary Education Student Assistance Project (7346-ME and 7349-ME). Report No.
53003-MX. Washington, DC.

World Bank. March 28, 2011. Amendment to the Loan Agreement (7346-ME).
Washington, DC.

World Bank. Terms of Reference for the Pre-appraisal and Appraisal Missions.

World Bank. Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office reports for Preparation and Supervision
missions.

World Bank. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) for the Tertiary Education Student
Assistance Project (7346-ME).




                                         47
