Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7346-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tertiary Education Student Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 7, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7346-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 2006, between the UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(the Borrower) acting through its signatory on page 13 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, through SEP (as hereinafter defined), has 
delivered to the Bank a letter dated November 3, 2005
,
describing the Borrower’s tertiary 
education strategy to strengthen its student assistance program to foster the sustainable, 
equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education (the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the 
Borrower’s execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of 
approximately ten (10) years to be utilized by the Borrower, or any other entity 
authorized by the Borrower, in the implementation of the Program;  
 
WHEREAS (D) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional 
financing towards the financing of the Project by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the BANOBRAS (as hereinafter defined) and the Bank with the guarantee of the 
Borrower (the Supplemental Loan Agreement), whereby the Bank has agreed to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to nine million Dollars 
($9,000,000) (the Supplemental Loan); and 
 
WHEREAS (E) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
Page  3
-
2
-
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement
:
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on, or in 
respect of, any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “ANUIES” 
means 
Asociación Nacional de Universidades e Instituciones 
de Educación Superior
,
the National Association of Mexican Universities and Tertiary 
Page  4
-
3
-
Education Institutions, created pursuant to a constitutive assembly held on March 25, 
1950; 
 
(b) 
“BANOBRAS” means 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos
 
S.N.C., a Mexican
 development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for 
purposes of the Loan; 
 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means a eligible tertiary education candidate who meets 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to participate as a 
beneficiary of a student loan program implemented by a State Loan Agency (as 
hereinafter defined); 
 
(d) “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the agreement to be entered between the 
Borrower (through SHCP and SEP (as hereinafter defined)) and BANOBRAS, pursuant 
to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services and 
grants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Grants” means the grants referred to in Part A.1 and Part C.2 of the 
Project; 
 
(i) 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the indigenous peoples 
development framework for the Project, dated April 15, 2005, that details an action plan 
to assist indigenous peoples overcome barriers to access to tertiary education, as said plan 
may be updated from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower; 
 
(j) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of the Project’s 
objective; 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated November 2, 2004 for the 
operation of the Project referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; 
 
(l) 
“Pathways Indigenous Student Assistant Program” means a program 
administered by ANUIES to support tertiary education institutions in establishing  and 
operating academic support units that academically and socially assist indigenous 
students to complete tertiary education; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(m) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit established under SEP, 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means SEP (as hereinafter defined)’s procurement 
plan, dated November 9, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(o) 
“PRONABES Scholarship Program” means the Borrower’s national 
scholarship program established under SEP (as hereinafter defined) to provide financial 
support to eligible candidates to successfully complete tertiary education; 
 
(p) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(q) “SEP” 
means 
Secretaría de Educación Pública
,
the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Public Education; 
 
(r) “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit; 
 
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(t) “State” 
means 
Estado
,
a
political subdivision of the Borrower; and 
 
(u) 
“State Loan Agencies” means any student loan agency operation in the 
territory of any State, which agency is established with the objective of implementing and 
managing student loan programs (including the provision of student loans to 
Beneficiaries) and which meets the criteria of the Supplemental Loan Agreement’s 
Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred and 
seventy one million Dollars ($171,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of grants and the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 1, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such commitment charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10.  The 
Sub Director de 
Planeación
 of BANOBRAS, and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project, through SEP, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Operational Manual and 
with appropriate administrative, management, and financial and social practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de 
Mandato
)
with BANOBRAS under terms acceptable to the Bank, whereby BANOBRAS 
agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to the Loan, meaning that 
BANOBRAS agrees to,
 inter alia
,
represent the Borrower 
vis-
à-vis
 the Bank for purposes 
of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient 
to justify disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de 
Mandato
.
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEP, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through SEP,  shall maintain  an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project, including: (i) the 
procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements thereof; (ii) the 
criteria for the selection, approval, implementation and monitoring of the provision of 
grants under Parts A.1 and C.2 of the Project; (iii) a model to be used in the preparation 
of FMRs; (iv) the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan; and (v) the Monitoring 
Indicators. 
 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through SEP, shall operate and maintain, at all 
times during Project implementation, a coordination unit within SEP with structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
coordination of the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
coordination of the evaluation of Parts A, B and C of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
preparation of the Operational Manual; 
 
(iv) 
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the 
Loan proceeds and for procurement of goods and services under 
Parts A, B and C of the Project; and 
 
(v) 
preparation of the financial statements and FMRs, and 
maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in Article IV 
of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEP, shall ensure that the PCU is at all times 
adequately staffed with at least a Project manager, a procurement specialist and a 
financial management specialist, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SEP, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
sustainability of Parts A, B and C of  the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through SEP, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, for each year during the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
semi-annual reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
(including the status of the procurement and disbursements under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project) performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the execution of Parts A, B and C of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
each said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(c) 
review with the Bank and BANOBRAS, by April and October of each 
year during the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, each report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A, B and 
C
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendat
ions of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.08. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part B.6 (a) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time, through regular Project supervision 
and auditing, that: (i) an amount of the Loan, disbursed pursuant to Categories (3) and (4) 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, was not used to finance the 
grants under Parts A or C.2 of the Project; or (ii) the recipients of said grants shall not 
have used the funds from said grants for purposes of the Project in accordance with the 
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
SEP, shall promptly furnish to the Bank additional evidence, as the Bank may request, to 
justify the use of said amount of the Loan, (in the case of such a request made by the 
Bank within one month before the Closing Date, the Borrower shall have up to four 
months after the Closing Date to furnish the requisite additional evidence to the Bank); 
and 
 
(b) 
in the event that the evidence referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
is not furnished to or found satisfactory by the Bank, the Bank reserves the right at all 
times to request a refund of the corresponding portion of the Loan for inclusion in the 
Loan Account. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through SEP, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A, B and C 
of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEP, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through SEP, shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through SEP, shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts A, B and C 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that BANOBRAS shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and/or under the 
Supplemental Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90 calendar days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that, the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly executed by the 
parties thereto. 
 
Section 6.02. The date July 6, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Titular 
de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of
SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-9158-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) Goods 
210,500 
85% 
 
(2) Consultants' 
services 
3,254,000 
100% 
 and 
training 
 
(3) 
Scholarship grants  
161,960,000 
70% of the amounts 
 
provided by 
 
disbursed by SEP 
 
SEP pursuant to  
 
in the form of 
 
Part A.1 of the Project 
 
such grants  
 
(4) 
Grants provided by 
4,930,000 
85% of the amounts 
 
SEP pursuant to  
 
disbursed by SEP 
 
Part C.2 of the Project 
 
in the form of 
 
such grants 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
427,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
00 
Amounts due under 
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
 
and Interest Rate 
 
Agreement 
 
Collars  
 
(7) Unallocated 
218,000 
 
__________ 
 TOTAL 
171,000,000
Page  16
-
15 -
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term 
“training” means the reasonable non-
consultant expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of 
training activities (including workshops, conferences and seminars) under Parts A, B and 
C
of the Project, including travel costs, per diem of trainers, trainees, facilitators and 
stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $17,000,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures during the twelve months before 
that date but after April 29, 2005. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for which no Bank prior review is 
contemplated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, cause 
BANOBRAS to open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account on behalf of the 
Borrower, either:  (i) in the Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank; (ii) in BANOBRAS on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment; or (iii) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of seventeen million Dollars ($17,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s strategy to foster the 
sustainable and equitable and efficient expansion of tertiary education through student 
assistance through the development of a coherent student assistance system consisting of 
student loan and grant programs, compensatory interventions for disadvantaged students, 
and supporting the national tertiary education policy. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
 
Part A
:
Tertiary Education Student Assistance
Supporting the Borrower’s national scholarship program and the development of 
a
national regulatory framework for tertiary education student assistance through: 
 
1. 
provision of scholarship grants to support the PRONABES Scholarship 
Program; and 
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) 
to assist the Borrower in developing a comprehensive framework for its national student 
assistance programs, including 
inter alia
:
(a) 
verification of the application of the PRONABES Scholarship Program 
targeting criteria; 
 
(b) 
enhancement of the PRONABES Scholarship Program management 
information system; 
 
(c) 
strengthening of the PRONABES Scholarship Program for the 
supervision of state-level program implementation;  
 
(d) 
organization of workshops for the design and implementation of national 
guidelines for state-level student loan programs (in collaboration with BANOBRAS) and 
for the creation and development of student loan programs in other interested states; and 
 
(e) 
carrying out of feasibility studies for a reimbursable grant scheme 
whereby students pay a share of their future market-earnings into a national scholarship 
fund to be used in the financing of future student grants. 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
Part B
:
Analysis and Institutional Strengthening
Supporting national tertiary education policy and the strengthening of sector 
institutions through the provision of technical assistance and training, including 
inter 
alia
:
1. 
creation of a reliable database on the labor market performance of 
tertiary education graduates and on national accredited tertiary education programs, and 
design and implementation of a public dissemination campaign; 
 
2. 
carrying out of various analytical studies to serve as a basis for the 
strengthening of tertiary education policy; and 
 
3. 
carrying out of a consolidated assessment of the Borrower’s student 
assistance programs and dissemination of the results of said assessment. 
 
Part C
:
Disadvantaged Students Assistance
Supporting more equitable access to, and completion of, tertiary education by 
poor talented students, through interventions designed to compensate for academic, social 
and informational disadvantages they face, including: 
 
1. 
testing of interventions that seek improvement of the opportunities for 
talented lower-income, upper secondary students to enroll in tertiary education; and  
 
2. 
provision of grants to ANUIES to support the expansion of the Pathways 
Indigenous Student Assistant Program. 
 
Part D
:
Student Loan Programs
Supporting financially sustainable State student loan programs that are consistent 
with the Program through: 
 
1. 
provision of loans to State Student Loan Agencies for the financing of 
their student loan programs aimed at providing financial assistance to Beneficiaries; and  
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) 
for the institutional strengthening of State Student Loan Agencies and for the monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning June 1, 2011 
 
through December 1, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  24
-
23 -
 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  25
-
24 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
Shopping
.
Goods and Services (other than Consultants’ services) 
procured by the Borrower’s public institutions,  estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
Page  26
-
25 -
 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
