                                                                           65707

Brazil - Municipality of Rio de Janeiro for Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Growth
                       Development Policy Loan - Loan No 7942-BR
                    Release of the Second Tranche – Full Compliance


1. This two-tranche Development Policy Loan (DPL) of US$1,045 million to the Municipality of
   Rio de Janeiro (MoRJ) in Brazil was signed on August 20, 2010, and became effective on
   August 27, 2010. The first tranche of US$ 545 million was disbursed on August 31, 2010. The
   second tranche of US$500 million is to be disbursed upon completion of specific tranche
   release conditions related to the Government’s reform program. The loan supports the
   Government in its efforts to achieve faster, more equitable and sustainable growth by
   increasing investment to improve the quality and coverage of social services, particularly in
   vulnerable areas of the city and to strengthen public sector management.



I. Background

2. The Rio de Janeiro Municipality Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Growth
   Development DPL supports the Government’s program to create fiscal space for
   investments to improve the quality and efficiency of public service delivery and to
   strengthen the institutional framework for efficient public service delivery. The main
   objective of the DPL is to support the Government in its efforts to foster sustainable growth
   and improve the quality and coverage of social services, particularly in poor and vulnerable
   areas. To achieve these objectives, the operation supports: (i) policies to create fiscal space to
   expand public investment and lay the foundations for municipal growth; (ii) innovations in
   service delivery to simplify businesses’ registration processes and improve the quality and
   coverage of public services in health and education especially in vulnerable areas; and (iii)
   measures to strengthen public sector management through the implementation of a medium
   term expenditures framework, results-based management with the public sector, and PPPs with
   the private sector.

3. After years of economic decline which have deepened social and economic inequalities,
   Rio is now poised for a turnaround. Growth has picked up since 2004, fueled by a positive
   domestic and international demand. Despite the improvement, Rio’s economic growth is below
   other state capital cities in Brazil. The city is now laying the foundations for faster, more
   equitable and sustainable growth by increasing investment in physical and human capital and
   strengthening government institutions. Stepping-up growth will allow the city to foster fiscal
   advances and respond to its unique social challenges. The reform program supported by the
   DPL mirrors the government’s well-defined medium term development strategy to recuperate
   the city’s investment capacity which is essential for growth, improve the quality and coverage
   of social services, particularly in low-income areas; and reform the institutional framework for
   public service delivery by improving internal administrative processes to reduce costs and
   enhance performance.
4. As a municipal DPL, the operation represents an innovation in Bank operations for three
   reasons. First, as the first DPL granted to a city, the proposed operation deepens Bank
   engagement with cities. As the main providers of essential public services including primary
   health care, primary education and basic infrastructure, cities are critical for the country’s
   success in promoting growth, reducing poverty, and ensuring that all citizens receive services
   of equal quality. Second, the operation supports a new generation of policy reforms geared at
   enhancing fiscal consolidation at the municipal level in Brazil. Third, the DPL supports efforts
   to better align policies at different levels of government—federal, state, and municipality.


5. This DPL is fully consistent with and closely linked to the objectives of the proposed new
   Brazil Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2012-2015. The new CPS discussed by the
   Board on November 1, 2011 is grounded in the LCR and IFC regional strategies, which focus
   on creating opportunities for growth and employment, targeting the poor and vulnerable,
   strengthening governance and promoting global collective action, as well as stimulating private
   sector innovation and competitiveness.


II. Recent Economic Developments

   Brazil

6. Growth is decelerating as a consequence of the government earlier monetary and fiscal
   tightening and amid concerns of a deterioration of the Euro Zone situation. High growth
   in 2010 was driven by domestic demand, expansionary fiscal policies and a surge in
   investment on the back of rapid credit growth and low interest rates. Household consumption
   contributed 4.4 percentage points of the 7.5 percent growth and investments grew by a robust
   21.9 percent in 2010. Fiscal policy remained expansionist in 2010, driven by strong rigidities
   in current expenditures, the election year, and difficulty in reversing the 2009 countercyclical
   measures- including treasury funding of BNDES. Average real income grew by 4.4 percent,
   while the number of employed people rose by 2.9 percent in 2010. As of October 2011,
   concerns regarding a deterioration of the economic situation in Europe and potential spillover
   effects as well as delayed effects of the monetary and fiscal policy tightening implemented
   during the year are translating into economic activity deceleration in Brazil. Industrial
   production, GDP growth projections and labor market numbers are cooling.

7. Despite high inflation, the central bank has recently cut its policy rate in response to a
   worsening of the global economic outlook. Consumer price inflation closed 2010 at 5.91
   percent, and reached 6.97 percent in the year to October 2011, thus surpassing the upper limit
   of the inflation target (6.5 percent). To control inflation, the Central Bank had increased the
   policy rate by 375 basis points, starting in April 2010, to reach 12.5 percent in June 2011. As
   a result, inflation is decelerating even though core inflation remains sticky. However, in
   response to a perceived deterioration in the outlook for global growth and the assessment that
   this will have a disinflationary bias going forward, the Central Bank reduced its policy rate
   by 50 basis points in August 2011 and by another 50 basis points to 11 percent in October
   2011.
8. Tight fiscal policy has generated strong results so far in 2011. Judging by the strong
   public sector results for the first nine months of 2011, the Government is expected to meet its
   primary surplus target in 2011. Between January and September 2011 the cumulative
   primary surplus stood at 89 percent of the original 2011 target. Despite the budget cuts of
   R$50 billion announced in February 2011, fiscal performance has relied more on revenue
   growth than on lasting restraint in noninvestment spending. The Government has recently
   announced its intent of implementing further cuts if needed in current expenditures, which
   should contribute to a better balance in the control of domestic demand between fiscal and
   monetary policy instruments.

9. The strength of domestic demand has contributed to a widening of the current account
   deficit, which reached 2.3 percent of GDP in 2010 from 1.5 percent in 2009. In the first nine
   months of 2011, the current account deficit remained relatively stable versus the same period
   of 2010 -respectively $35.4 billion and $36 billion in 2010 and 2011. From January to
   September 2011, FDI totaled $50.5 billion versus an inflow of $22.6 billion in the same
   period of 2010. Foreign direct investments are expected to remain strong and well above the
   current account deficit. The sharp increase in FDI in recent months was attributable mainly to
   foreign investors’ favorable reading of Brazil’s economic outlook for the next few years. In
   recent weeks, the upward pressures on the real appear to have eased on the back of
   uncertainties in the economic situation of Europe. The trade surplus has grown sharply, from
   $12.7 billion in January-September 2010, to $23.0 billion in January-September 2011, driven
   by increasing commodity export prices.

10. Widening current account deficits, swings in the exchange rate and growing private
    sector indebtedness create difficult economic policy trade-offs. The currency, which had
    appreciated 11.9 percent in 2010 to reach a high of R$1.59/USD, depreciated 16.8 percent in
    September 2011 on the back of increasing concerns in Europe. In October 2011, the Real had
    regained 9 percent on the dollar to reach R$1.69/USD at the end of the month. The Central
    Bank continues to accumulate international reserves, reaching record level at US$352.5
    billion in November 2011. However, this has been accompanied by an increase in broadly
    defined gross external debt. Private sector’s gross external debt increased 63 percent between
    December 2009 and July 2011 reaching US$340.9 billion. The Central Bank has stepped up
    its monitoring of prudential and macro-prudential risks associated with potential currency
    mismatches by financial and non-financial companies. The Central Bank has also taken
    macro-prudential measures to contain rapid credit growth, which is driven by public banks.
    The banking system appears well prepared to absorb a worsening of the credit portfolio. An
    acceleration in credit expansion marked the first nine months of 2011 with to reach 48
    percent of GDP in September 2011 versus 45.4 percent in September 2010. In this context, in
    order to limit the deceleration of domestic demand and growth, on November 11 the Central
    Bank issued measures that amount to an easing in macro-prudential regulations.

11. The government’s overall macroeconomic framework is deemed sustainable in the
    medium term and adequate for the purposes of a DPL. Brazil’s fiscal framework
    provided the government with the flexibility to successfully respond to the global financial
    crisis with an array of fiscal, monetary, and external measures to stimulate domestic demand.
    Gross public sector debt is expected to decline in the future, from 63.3 percent of GDP
    projected for 2011 to around 58.9 percent of GDP in 2013. Moreover, flexible exchange
    rates, relatively large foreign reserves as well as the government’s stance to take necessary
    policy actions should protect Brazil from any potential external crisis should an abrupt
    change in market perception turn around the trend in capital flows.

    Municipality of Rio de Janeiro

12. Economic activity in Rio de Janeiro strongly rebounded in 2010 in line with national
    trends. The pace of the recovery which was fast in the first semester of 2010 due to the
    government’s countercyclical policies slowed down in the second part of the year. Retail
    grew 7.7 percent in the first semester of 2010 on the back of increasing average income as
    well as the expansion of consumer credit. Wages grew 9.3 percent in the first semester of
    2010, faster than the national average at 5.3 percent. Unemployment remained very low at
    5.3 percent in mid 2010.

13. The economic recovery was mirrored in the fiscal aggregates through a strong revenues
    performance. Tax collected and current transfers accounted for 68.4 percent of total
    revenues in 2010. The increase in tax collected owed much to a strong performance of
    collection of the tax on services (ISS). Tax collected grew 8.2 percent in 2010 compared to
    2009. 1 The acceleration in the growth rate of tax collected was due to the resumption of
    aggregate demand post crisis as well as fiscal measures to increase the efficiency of
    collection including through the implementation of the Electronic Fiscal Receipt -Nota Fiscal
    Electronica supported by the DPL as a first tranche condition. Tax revenues also benefitted
    in part from higher inflation in 2010.

14. The intergovernmental fiscal arrangements between the Federal Government, the State
    of Rio de Janeiro and the municipality of Rio de Janeiro are adequate. Current transfers,
    including from the federal government, the state as well as co -financing agreements,
    represented 30.7 percent of total revenues in 2010. After remaining flat in 2009, current
    transfers increased 9.8 percent in real terms in 2010. Growth in current transfers from the
    Federal Government was driven by transfers earmarked to education (growth of 17.7 percent
    in real terms) as well as by transfers from the Federal Government’s collection of the
    industrial production tax for exports (growth of 13.9 percent in real terms). Revenues also
    benefitted from higher transfers from the State, including oil royalties (growth of 13.4
    percent in real terms) and transfers earmarked to the health sector (growth of 10.5 percent in
    real terms). Notwithstanding those increases, the municipality received lower transfers from
    the State tax on vehicles (reduction of 5.5 percent in real terms).

15. The expenditures framework of the municipality is adequate; the municipality was able
    to generate fiscal space for investment in physical capital but also to expand social
    programs in 2010. The recovery of the city’s capacity to invest is a positive development
    that the DPL has enabled through its support to the Government’s reform program. Overall

1
  They include mainly the tax on services (ISS); the property tax which affects urban property and land (IPTU); the
tax on transfer of immovable property (ITBI); and other withholding tax and fees. ISS represented 20.8 percent of
total revenues and grew 9 percent in real terms to reach R$3.171 billion in 2010. IPTU, the property tax, which
represented 9.4 percent of total revenue, grew 7.1 percent in real terms to reach R$1.430 billion in 2010.
   investment reached R$1.159 billion in 2010, a 289.3 percent increase over 2009 on the back
   of the city’s large infrastructure needs made more pressing by the upcoming sporting events
   as well as funding of social programs to increase coverage and quality of public service
   delivery in the city. The increase in investment stems from increased revenues as well as
   lower interest expenditures. The government used the proceeds from the first tranche release
   of the DPL to pay back expensive government debt. The savings from the debt restructuring
   amounted to over R$536 millions in the 12 months after the operation. The municipality used
   those savings to increase physical investments in infrastructure, expand social programs in
   health and education as well as modernize public sector management. As such one third of
   the 14.3 percent growth in current expenditures stems from greater capacity to process and
   pay requests from goods and services providers in 2010 compared to 2009. Expenditures
   related to personnel and social charges increased 7.3 percent in nominal terms in 2010.

16. The ratio of debt service to net current revenues (NCR) decreased sharply over the past
    two years on the back of a restructuring of government debt and increasing revenues.
    As indicated, the government used the proceeds from the first tranche release of the DPL to
    pay back expensive government debt and as such decreased interest expenditures. The debt
    service to NCR ratio dropped to 6 percent in 2011 from 8 percent in 2010. The debt stock
    stood at R$8.5 billion in 2011 from R$8.1 billion in 2010. Moody’s has rated the
    municipality’s debt investment grade (Baa3 with a positive outlook).

17. Primary and overall budget balances reflect increased budget execution and higher
    investment in 2010. The primary balance decreased 34 percent to R$895.9 million in 2010.
    This reflects a recovery of the government’s capacity to execute its budget in 2010 compared
    to 2009 which was the first year of the government and the year of the global financial crisis.
    It also reflects a recovery of the government’s capacity to invest in social programs and in
    physical infrastructure. Budget revenues grew 24.5 percent annually in real terms to reach
    R$15.243 billion in 2010 (compared 1.5 percent growth in real terms in 2009).

18. The overall macro fiscal framework of the municipality of Rio de Janeiro is adequate.
    The Government has been able to recover its capacity to invest by growing its revenues and
    significantly reducing interest expenditures to generate fiscal space. The municipality has
    used the fiscal space generated to expand the quality and coverage of social services, increase
    investment in physical infrastructure, and to strengthen the institutional environment for
    public service delivery, setting up the foundations for faster, more equitable and sustainable
    growth. The municipality is expected to continue to comply with all the indicators of the
    Fiscal Responsibility Framework in the medium term. By virtue of the limits on external
    borrowing set by the federal government on Rio de Janeiro, almost all of the city’s
    investment will be funded with the Municipality’s own revenues.


III. Progress in Implementing the Reform Agenda

19. Overall progress in the government program has been highly satisfactory. The objective
    of the reform agenda is to guarantee equal opportunities for Rio’s citizens and young people
    by improving public service delivery. The strategy is to increase fiscal consolidation to
    generate investment which will allow to innovate in public service delivery and to strengthen
    the institutional framework for public service delivery within the public sector and with the
    private sector (PPPs). The multiyear plan, which focuses on actions and programs in fiscal
    consolidation, public services delivery and private sector management, lays the foundations
    for faster, more equitable and sustainable growth.

20. The Government has successfully created fiscal space to increase investment. As
    mentioned in the section on recent economic developments, investment almost tripled on the
    back of successful reforms to increase revenues and rationalize expenditures. On the
    expenditures side the biggest impact came from the Government’s debt restructuring of
    expensive debt from the Federal Government which opened significant fiscal space with
    interest expenditure savings and improvements in the debt-service profile.

21. The city has made significant progress on the rationalization of pension expenditures, at
    least in terms of actions that are within the control of the municipality’s Executive
    Power. The municipality moved forward with the submission of a draft pension law on
    pension fund capitalization plans (a second tranche disbursement condition). While the
    Legislative Assembly already passed this law, it has yet to approve the draft pension law to
    reform the administrative rules for calculating pension benefits, submitted by the Executive
    as a first tranche disbursement condition. The municipality also completed the audit of the
    wage bill for active and inactive public servants as well as the organizational restructuring of
    the pension fund administrative body to improve its corporate governance and institutional
    capacity to manage the pension funds’ assets.

22. The municipality has made significant progress in simplifying business registration
    procedures and in establishing a new system of performance based bonuses for schools.
    The Municipality has implemented a one stop shop for business registration (REGIN). This
    allows for the centralization of the registration process to minimize the number of steps and
    time it takes for businesses to register and be licensed with the various levels of government
    that regulate business activity in Brazil. The municipality has implemented the new system of
    bonus pay for schools that attain annual targets for improvements in student learning and
    student flows. Out of 964 eligible schools, 513 received an award and out of the 150 Escolas
    do Amanhã 2 in the most violent neighborhoods 91 received an award.

23. The municipality has made significant progress in building the institutional framework
    for public service delivery within the public sector with results agreements and with the
    private sector with PPPs. The municipality’s system to monitor and evaluate results
    agreements is in operation. The new IT system updates information on progress towards
    achievement of targets for elaboration of monthly status reports. The municipality regularly
    holds quarterly meetings on the progress towards achieving results agreements targets and
    has prepared an annual report on lessons learned in the first year of implementation of results
    agreements and their monitoring system. The municipality’s PPP unit is operational and has

2
 The Escolas do Amanhã are schools located in the 150 most disadvantaged areas, which receive from the
municipality a comprehensive package of targeted support to create both state-of-the-art educational institutions
and community centers.
   supervised the preparation of a PPP project resulting in a call of interest for a public
   sanitation project.

24. The municipality has also implemented the initial steps to implement a Public
    Investment Framework. The framework will allow the municipality to evaluate and select
    capital investment projects. The municipality has issued a Joint Resolution which represents
    initial efforts towards the development and introduction of basic processes and controls for
    the municipality to evaluate and select capital investment projects.


IV. Progress against Tranche Release Criteria


25. The municipality of Rio de Janeiro has made significant progress in the implementation
    of the second tranche release conditions. The implementation of the reforms supported in
    the first tranche has been satisfactory and all actions for the second tranche withdrawal for
    the operation have been met.

26. Action 1. The MoRJ has submitted to its Legislative Assembly a draft law, and/or has
    adopted the adequate regulatory framework, to allow adequate transfers to recapitalize
    FUNPREVI (including through future royalties revenues of the MoRJ, returns from the
    portfolio of real estate loans and real estate assets of FUNPREVI and of the MoRJ or
    other equivalent measures).

27. This action has been taken. The municipality was able to gather the political support needed
    to pass the law. The Legislative Assembly has approved the Law 5.300/2011 dated
    September 13, 2011, which provides for the capitalization of FUNPREVI (the pension fund)
    Plan and other measures. The law allows the funding of the R$22 billion actuarial deficit (in
    present value): R$1.7 billion through transfers from PREVIRIO (the management body of
    the pension fund), R$2.5 billion by transfers of royalties over 45 years and the rest through
    additional contributions, spread over 35 years. The reform is an important milestone for the
    municipality as the actuarial deficit of the pension fund is a burden to the Municipality’s
    treasury which transfers the difference between the contribution and the paid benefits.

28. Action 2. MoRJ has implemented the electronic fiscal invoice system (Nota Fiscal
    Eletrônica) for the collection of the municipal tax on services, and has created a
    database system (Inteligência Fiscal) to facilitate the identification of the fiscal evasion
    related to said municipal tax on services.

29. This action has been taken. MoRJ issued an Official Memo on March 23, 2011, reporting on
    the implementation status of the “Nota Fiscal Eletrônica? and the “Sistema de Inteligencia
    Fiscal?. This followed the issuance of a decree governing the implementation of the Nota
    Carioca (the electronic fiscal receipt for Rio City), Decree No. 33442, dated February 28,
    2011, and the carrying out of homologation testing for the system “Sistema de Inteligencia
    Fiscal? in May 2010, which MoRJ reported as concluded in August 2011. As a result of the
   reform, the collection of the city’s main tax ISS in the first 9 months of 2011 totaled R$2.7
   billion, representing a real growth of 10.8 percent (nominal 18.2 percent) over the same
   period in 2010 (January to September).

30. Action 3. The MoRJ has submitted to its Legislative Assembly a draft law, in form and
    substance satisfactory to the Bank, for approval thereof, to expedite judicial
    enforcement and recovery of tax arrears.

31. This action has been taken. The Municipality submitted a draft law (Projeto de Lei
    No. 536/2010, and the substitute project sent on May 31, 2011) proposing changes to the
    time period to have debt classified as active debt. As a result the period to initiate judicial
    enforcement should be reduced to eight months.

32. Action 4. The MoRJ has expanded the implementation of the legal and administrative
    framework of the new management model through the execution of five new separate
    management contracts between the Municipality’s Health Secretariat and qualified
    social organizations to deliver services in ten additional family health care clinics and
    four additional emergency care clinics.

33. This action has been taken. As of October 2011, there are thirty (30) operating clinics and
    urgent care centers and health care teams registered with the Secretariat of Health and
    providing twenty seven (27) signed contractual services in the health sector through qualified
    Social Organizations (“Organizacoes Sociais?). As a result, the coverage of family health
    services to the public in the city of Rio de Janeiro reached 26.4 percent in October 2011 from
    a baseline of six (6) percent in January 2009.

34. Action 5. The MoRJ has operationalized the new model of integrated early child care
    and pre-school services EDIs (Espaços de Desenvolvimento Infantil) with a first set of
    ten centers in targeted low-income areas duly operational.

35. This action has been taken. The ten centers are duly operational and they are indeed located
    in low income areas. The localization of the EDIs indicates that they are in the poorest and
    neediest areas of the city. Indeed the 10 EDIs, are concentrated in 9 districts; 8 of which
    have the worse Human Development Index of the city (their IDH rank among the lowest 30
    out of 126 districts in Rio), the ninth EDI is localized in a very violent slum (Bonsucesso-
    Complexo do Alemão). As a result of the reform, enrollment in ECD centers and pre-schools
    targeted to low-income communities has increased from 107,766 nurseries and preschools in
    January 2009 to 113,479 nurseries and pre-schools in September 2011. The availability of
    new openings in preschools has increased despite a small decrease in the number of students
    in pre-schools as the legal age to start elementary school was lowered.

36. Action 6. The MoRJ has: (i) initiated the implementation of a medium term
    expenditures framework (MTEF).

37. This action has been taken. The municipality has elaborated its first medium term
    expenditures framework document. This effort represents the initial year of the 3-5 years
   strategy with associated expenditures plan and financing plan used for the preparation of the
   guideline budget law of 2012-LDO (Law of Budget Guidelines) in April 2011. The report
   titled “Marco de Gestao de Medio Prazo (MGMP) do Municipio do Rio de Janeiro?, dated
   April 2011, sets forth a medium term expenditure plan for the MoRJ in accordance with fiscal
   resources and medium term priorities was sent to the Legislative Assembly along with the
   draft budget law in April 2011. The document was updated and made public in July 2011.
   The municipality will send an updated version with the guidelines of the 2013 budget law.
   The MTEF will be an important tool for the municipality to improve medium term planning
   of expenditures especially given the uptake on investment for the next 3-5 years.

38. Action 7. The MoRJ has: (ii) enhanced the implementation of result-based management
    tools through the carrying out of an evaluation of the sixteen results agreements with
    respect to the 2010 targets.

39. This action has been taken. The “Secretaria da Casa Civil? of the municipality has published
    a report evaluating the 16 results agreements. MoRJ has also issued Decree 33813, in May
    2011, setting targets and performance indicators for the public sector in results agreements
    and Decree 33887, in June 2011, governing the procedures to establish targets and
    performance indicators for the public sector in results agreements. As of October 2011 the
    MoRJ signed or renegotiated agreements with 38 agencies covering approximately 82 percent
    of servers of the municipality. This compare to results agreements signed with 19 agencies,
    which covered 73 percent of servers of the City in 2010 and a baseline of 0 in 2009. The
    award, to the agencies and public servants that met the targets were first paid in June 2011.

40. Action 8. The MoRJ has created a public-private partnership (PPP) unit fully staffed
    and operational

41. This action has been taken. The municipality issued four decrees in April-June 2011 to: (i)
    create a coordinating unit for public-private partnerships (Decree 33656, of April 12, 2011);
    (ii) modify the organizational structure of the “Secretaria da Casa Civil? to create a unit
    responsible for public-private partnership (Decree 33733, of May 3, 2011); (iii) nominate a
    head of the PPP unit, and staff adequately the unit (with three staff members) (Decree “P?
    No. 550, of May 5, 2011); and (iv) adopt a governance structure for the public-partnership
    unit (Decree 32422, of June 21, 2011). In addition, the municipality has received intensive
    training session on PPPs public-private partnership offered on June 13-17, 2011. The
    municipality is also in the process of hiring a resident advisor. The Bank will continue its
    engagement to build capacity in the municipality to structure manage and procure PPPS
    through a Fee Based Service (FBS) in the short term and a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
    in the medium term.
42. Action 9. The MoRJ has implemented a stock management system for the health sector
    and approved a schedule for a system wide roll-out within 15 months (including the e-
    procurement scheme at municipal level).

43. This action has been taken. The MoRJ has implemented a stock and inventory management
    and control system, based on barcode reading. The new system is currently largely used in
    the health secretariat –mainly in hospitals and local health units. The municipality has a clear
    plan to roll it out to other municipal government units and training has already begun.
    Improved efficiency in stock management from the reform has reduced losses in the stock of
    goods in the health sector. The reforms supported in the first tranche related to electronic
    auction have resulted in a saving of 23 percent in the cost of goods and services purchased
    during the period from January to June 2011.


V. Conclusion


44. In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the program
    supported by the Loan, and in compliance with the specific conditions of release as described
    in Section II.D.1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, dated August 20, 2010, namely:

    •   The progress achieved by the MoRJ in carrying out the Program is satisfactory;
    •   The Guarantor has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework which does not
        jeopardize the objectives of the Program;
    •   The MoRJ’s expenditure program, and fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor, are
        consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
    •   The tranche release conditions described in Part B of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Loan
        Agreement have been met.

45. Therefore, the second tranche will be released to MORJ.
