RESTRICTED
Report No. P-523
FIL E Ctun,P I
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
FOR A POWER PROJECT
TO THE
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ELECTRIFICACION
IN
GUATEMALA
January 12, 1967



I17TEINATIONAL BANIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE
ELECTRIFICACION, GUATEAdLA
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$15.0 million to
the Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion (INDE).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      The Bank has had only one lending operation in Guatemala in the
form of a $18.2 million loan, made in 1955, for highway construction and
maintenance. Since that time, lending has been blocked for more than
11 years as a result of the failure of successive Guatemalan governments
to take steps towards the settlement of a dispute regarding three out-
standing sterling bond issues, even after the Guatemalan courts had ruled
in favor of the bondholders.
3.      In early March 1965, a request for the financing of the power
project was presented to the Bank by the military Government then in
office. The project was appraised in May-June 1965 on the understanding
that although the Bank was willing to proceed with steps preliminary to
a resumption of Bank lending, it would stop short of signing a loan
agreement until the debt issue was resolved satisfactorily.   In Plarch
1966, the outlook for a final settlement appeared reasonably good and the
Bank invited negotiators to come to hshington on the condition that the
Government would first recognize the debt, in accordance with the findings
of the Guatemalan courts. In late March, the Bank was informed that the
Government could not do this, and the Government withdrew its loan request.
4.      On July 1, 1966, a new civilian Government took office as a
result of the elections for both the Presidency and the Congress which
had taken place in early lMarch 1966. Shortly afterwards, the Government
decided to recognize by an "acuerdo gubernativo" the validity of the
outstanding balance of the sterling debt. The Bank of Guatemala was
instructed to act as the Governmentfs fiscal agent for the implementation
of the debt settlement. Subsequently, final arrangements for the debt
settlement were worked out in Europe between representatives of the Bank
of Guatemala and of the bondholders and various European banks.
5.      At the time the new Government took steps to settle the sterling
debt it re-submitted the request for the financing of the proposed power
project. The project was reappraised and the information on it updated
in August 1966. Negotiations commenced in Washington on November 14, 1966.
INDE was represented by Mr. Rolando Castillo Contoux, General Manager and
lMlr. Ramon Lopez Rivera, Technical Adviser. Representing the Government
of Guatemala as Guarantor were Dr. Alberto Fuentes Mohr, Minister of
Finance and Public Credit and Mr. Gert Rosenthal, Adviser to the Finance
Minister.
6.       As will be seen from Paragraph 108 of the Appraisal Report attached,
certain conditions remain to be satisfied before the Bank would be prepared
to sign the Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement.  However, in view of the



special circumstances in this case, I have agreed with the Guatemalan Govern-
ment to seek your approval of the loan documents at this time and to defer
signing the loan documents until the necessary conditions are fulfilled, it
being understood that the interest rate on the loan would be the Bankts
standard rate prevailing at that time.
7.        The proposed loan to INDE of $15 million would bring the Bankts
total lending to Guatemala to $33.2 million, The following is a summary
statement of the only Bank loan to Guatemala as of December 31, 1966.
Year                Borrower                 Purpose          US$ Million
1955         Republic of Guatemala             Roads              18.2
of which has been repaid                            11.0
Total now outstanding                                 7.2
Amount sold                           2.2
of which has been repaid            2.0             0.2
Total now held by Bank
(fully disbursed)                                   7.0
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.       BORROr)ER:                    Instituto Nacional de Electrifi-
cacion (IIDE).
GUARANTOR:                   Republic of Guatemala.
AMOUNT:                      The equivalent in various currencies
of US$15.0 million.
PURPOSE:                     Construction of the Jurun-Marinala
Hydroelectric Scheme of 60 MW capacity;
installation of a 15 MW gas turbine
generator and a 5 MW diesel generating
plant; construction of associated
transmission lines; management and
engineering services.
AMORTIZATION:                25 years, including a grace period
of four years; principal repayments
semi-annually from July 1, 1971
through July 1, 1992.
INT=E-ST RATE:               Standard rate prevailing at time of
signing.
COIU TTENT CHARGE:           3/8 of 1 percent per annum.



- 3 -
PART III - THR PROJECT
9.       An appraisal report entitled "Guatemala - The Instituto Nacional
de Electrificacion - The Jurun-Marinala Hydroelectric Scheme, Associated
Transmission Lines, and Other Generating Facilities" (No.TO-527A) on the
proposed project is attached.
1Ot      The power industry in Guatemala dates back to 1896 when electricity
was first supplied to the City of Guatemala. In 1922 a 50-year concession
was granted to Empresa Electrica de Guatemala (EEG), a subsidiary of the
American and Foreign Power Company. EEG, with an installed capacity of about
65 MW', is at present the main supplier of power to the most populated Central
Region.  However, the development of all future electric power generating
plants has now been entrusted by law to INDE. EEG will, however, remain
the principal distributor of power generated by INDE in the Central Region.
The project which the proposed loan would help finance would increase INDEts
present generating capacity from about 25 Mw to about 105 Wi,,,T.
ill      INDE, which would be responsible for the execution of the project,
is an autonomous Government agency created in 1959 for the purpose of
developing Guatemalats electric power resources.   Its chief executive is
the General Manager. He attends all Board meetings and carries out his
responsibilities in accordance with policies determined by the Board. INDEts
Board consists of eight directors, all professional men, appointed by the
Chief of Government through the Minister of Communications and Public W4orks.
With the assistance of consultants, which it has agreed to retain, INDE's
present organization should be able to execute the project satisfactorily.
12.       The project proposed for Bank financing consists of (i) the cons-
truction of the 60 MW Jurun-IMarinala hydroelectric station and a 138 kv
transmission line, about 50 kilometers in length, to transmit power generated
at Escuintla and Jurun-Marinala to Guatemala City; (ii) the installation of
a second 15 MW gas turbine generator at Escuintla and a 5 MW diesel gener-
ating plant at Puerto Matias de Galvez and (iii) consultantst services.
13.       The proposed loan of $15.0 million would cover the foreign exchange
costs of the project, the total cost of which is estimated at $23.5 million,
including interest during construction. INDEts total requirements of funds
during the 4 years required for the construction of the project would be
about $50.8 million. INDE would provide about $8.3 million from its own
resources, the Government would contribute about $7.3 million, EEG, through
its water rights agreement with INDE, would provide about $6.0 million and
the balance of about $14.2 million representing the foreign exchange costs
of INDEts second stage power development program, the feasibility of which
is still to be established, would be the subject of an additional external
loan.
1h.      The project ranks high in priority in the countryts economic develop-
ment plans. Power requirements in the Central Region which will be met by
the project, have increased at the rate of about 14 percent between 1960 and
1964. About 40 percent of the increased demand was accounted for by



- 4 -
residential consumption, and about one-third by industrial users. For
the period 196h-1972, a load growth of 12 percent annually is forecast.
The project is an important part of the program to meet this growth in
power requirements in the most populated area of the country.
15.      Bids for the main project items were received at the end of July,
1966 and the majority of contracts are expected to be awarded in early
1967. International competitive bidding procedures were followed for all
these contracts.
16.      By the time the proposed project is completed in 1970, INDE's
present net fixed assets in operation would have trebled. With the help
of Government contributions to its equity and increasing revenues from its
expanding operations, INDE should be able to finance its expansion program
and earn a reasonable rate of return. INDE is expected to earn a rate of
return on its average net fixed assets in operation of 9.1 percent in 1967
rising to 9.5 percent in 1970 when the proposed project should be coming
into operation and to 10.1 percent in 1971.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and INDE, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and the Bank and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. These draft agreements are in the usual form for
similar projects.
18.      These agreements would be signed only after the conditions set
forth in paragraph 108 of the Appraisal Report attached hereto have been
fulfilled.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.      The most recent economic report on Guatemala (WSH-1h8, dated
April 29, 1965), which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 4, 1965, concluded that Guatemala's economic performance had improved
since 1962, that the authorities had made some efforts to strengthen the
Government's fiscal position and that the country was in a position to
borrow substantial amounts from abroad to finance its investment programs.
Economic developments in 1965 and 1966 substantially confirmed these
findings. The attached economic memorandum concludes that in view of
Guatemala's good long-term growth potential and of the additional tax
measures put into effect by the new Government at the end of 1966, Guate-
mala can be considered creditworthy for the $80 million of new external
financing which would be required during the next two years or so to
support the presently envisaged public investment program.



- 5 -
PART VI - COI4PLIANCE WITH TIHE ARTICLES OF AGREEHIENT
20,      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMEUDATION
21.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
in an amount equivalent to US$15,000,000 to be guaranteed
by Republic of Guatemala
RESOLVED:
THIAT a loan is hereby authorized to be made to Instituto NTacional
de Electrificacion to be guaranteed by Republic of Guatemala, in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million United States dollars
(U.S. $15,000,000), to mature on and prior to July 1, 1992, to bear interest
at the rate generally applicable to new Bank loans of tlhe same maturity at
the time the agreement providing for the loan is signed, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Power Project) between the Bank and Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion,
and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Power Project) between Republic of
Guatemala and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 12, 1967



