CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 718 IRN
Loan Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
IRAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 718 IRN
Loan Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
IRAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1970


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1970, between IRAN (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Plan  Law"   means the    Law   of Iran   of  Esfand 27, 1346
(March 18, 1968) providing for the Fourth National Five Year Development Plan
of the Borrower, together with any amendment or amendments thereof;
(b)   "Plan Organization" means the Plan Organization, the functions and
responsibilities of which are defined in the Plan Law, or any other organization
or organizations which may be charged hereafter by law with functions and
responsibilities of similar scope and character, and shall include any successor or
successors thereto;
(c)   "Project Unit" means the unit established by the Plan Organization
in connection with the execution of the Project, as described in Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.08. If and as the Bank shall from time to time request, the Borrower
shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan
as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of the Plan Organization and such other
person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized


﻿5
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, and
educational policies and practices, and with due regard to economy, and shall,
at all times, make available promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in the manner
described in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause the Plan
Organization to maintain and operate for the period of the execution of the Project,
the Project Unit, with such functions, powers and responsibilities as shall be
necessary for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The educational specialists to be utilized in the
implementation of the Project shall be acceptable to the Borrower and to the Bank
and shall be specialized in such fields, and employed under such conditions and
for such periods of time, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Borrower shall assign, to work with each specialist, such qualified counterpart
personnel as shall be required.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to, and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to, the Bank for the purpose of designing and supervising the
construction work included in the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) contracts for
the procurement of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall, except as provided in said Schedule 4, be subject to the prior
approval of the Bank.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure or make adequate provision for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval
promptly upon their preparation the plans, specifications, contracts and work
schedules for the construction work included in the Project and the lists of
instructional equipment and furniture included therein, and any subsequent material
modifications thereof, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, within one year from the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree upon, take all such timely action as shall be necessary to acquire the ownership
of all land and rights in rem as required for design and construction of the Project
facilities.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end, the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and


﻿7
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall
be created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such
lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect.
(c)   The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for
payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "assets of the Borrower" includes assets
of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision, including the assets of the Bank
Markazi Iran and any other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
Section  4.02. The Borrower shall undertake the formulation       of a
comprehensive long-term plan for the development of its educational system, such
plan to be completed by June 1974 or by such other date as may be agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate the educational institutions and
facilities included in the Project in accordance with sound administrative and
educational policies and practices and with due regard to economy, all as required
in order to further the educational objectives of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ qualified administrators and
teachers in adequate numbers to staff the educational institutions included in the
Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the buildings, equipment and furniture
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made in accordance
with sound administrative and technical standards.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, within one year from the date of this
Agreement, take all action necessary to improve coordination of vocational training
in Iran and cooperation between the employers of trained workers and the agencies
of the Borrower responsible for such training.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, within one year after the date of this
Agreement, take or cause to be taken all necessary action to: (a) initiate training,


﻿8
in the Number Two Vocational Training Center of the Borrower's Ministry of Labor,
of instructors in such numbers as shall be necessary for the six Project vocational
training centers; (b) introduce an agricultural education course in at least one of
the Borrower's faculties of agriculture to provide the required additional
university-level agricultural instructors for the agricultural schools included in the
Project; and (c) establish a 4- to 6-month pedagogical course for training instructors
for the Project agricultural schools, the trainees for such course to be graduates
of a post-secondary agricultural program extending over at least two years.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, before completion of the construction work
included in the Project, take or cause to be taken all necessary action for: (a)
providing additional land required to bring the practice farms of the agricultural
schools included in the Project to a total of one hundred hectares each at Said-Abad,
Boroujerd, Mashad, Ahwaz and Rasht; and (b) establishing a representative advisory
board in each such agricultural school in order to ensure liaison with the local
community.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall provide scholarships for tuition and
boarding for not less than 50% of the students enrolled in the Project agricultural
schools.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Plan Organization, the
educational system   of the Borrower and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿9
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Plan Organization
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments and agencies of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; and shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the educational system of the Borrower, the
operations and financial condition of the Plan Organization and, in respect of the
Project, of such departments and agencies.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories, and
the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the country
or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or laws in
effect in the territories of such country or countries.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
and moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Bank at its option, may
by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, together with the interest
and other charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such principal, interest
and charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary
in the Loan Agreement or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date   March 22, 1971     is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Managing Director of the Plan Organization is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Plan Organization
Tehran
Iran
Cable address:
Barnameh
Tehran


﻿*                                11
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
IRAN
By /s/ Jahangir Amuzegar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each
category:
Allocation of
Amounts of Loan               Percentage
(Expressed in            of Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.         Civil works               8,510,000         35% of total expendi-
tures (such % repre-
senting the estimated
foreign exchange com-
ponent)
II.        Professional serv-         680,000          35% of total expendi-
ices in respect                             tures (such % repre-
of Category I                               senting the estimated
foreign exchange com-
ponent)
III.       Imported furniture       3,230,000          100% of foreign ex-
and equipment                               penditures
IV.        Furniture and             1,350,000         50% of total expendi-
equipment manu-                             tures (such % repre-
factured in Iran                            senting the estimated
foreign exchange com-
ponent)
V.         Services of educa-         750,000          75% of total expendi-
tional specialists                          tures (such % repre-
senting the estimated
foreign exchange com-
ponent)
VI.        Interest and other        1,950,000         100% of foreign ex-
charges on the Loan                         penditures
during construction
accrued on or before
May 14, 1975
VII.       Unallocated              2,530,000
TOTAL              19,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of any
member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)   in respect of expenditures incurred before the date of the Loan
Agreement: or
(b)   in respect of payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the
amount represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; or
(c)   in respect of expenditures for any Faculty of Education included in
the Project, until the Bank shall be satisfied that adequate supporting facilities
and instructors will be available at the respective university to enable students
enrolled in such Faculty of Education to pursue the studies required in the other
faculties of such university.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿14
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above against Category I, if the estimate of expenditures under
such Category shall increase and no proceeds of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, modify
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1980                                      360,000
May 15, 1981                                           375,000
November 15, 1981                                      385,000
May 15, 1982                                           400,000
November 15, 1982                                      415,000
May 15, 1983                                           430,000
November 15, 1983                                      445,000
May 15, 1984                                           465,000
November 15, 1984                                      480,000
May 15, 1985                                           495,000
November 15, 1985                                      515,000
May 15, 1986                                           535,000
November 15, 1986                                      555,000
May 15, 1987                                            575,000
November 15, 1987                                      595,000
O        May 15, 1988                                            615,000
November 15, 1988                                      635,000
May 15, 1989                                           660,000
November 15, 1989                                      685,000
May 15, 1990                                           710,000
November 15, 1990                                      735,000
May 15, 1991                                           760,000
November 15, 1991                                      790,000
May 15, 1992                                           820,000
November 15, 1992                                      845,000
May 15, 1993                                           880,000
November 15, 1993                                      910,000
May 15, 1994                                           945,000
November 15, 1994                                      975,000
May 15, 1995                                          1,010,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                   Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  3/4%
More than three years
but not more than six years
before maturity                                2-1/4%
More than six years
but not more than eleven years
before maturity                                    3%
More than eleven years
but not more than sixteen years
before maturity                                4-1/2%
More than sixteen years
but not more than twenty-one years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than twenty-three years
before maturity                                6-3/4%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                7-1/4%


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists in the construction, equipment and operation of new
educational institutions and facilities and in the utilization of the services of
technical and educational specialists for such purposes and for assistance in the
formulation by the Borrower of its long-term development plan for its educational
system.
The Project, to be carried out under the supervision of the Project Unit,
includes specifically:
(a)   the construction, equipment and operation of the following:
Staff
Student        Boarding         Houses or
Type of               Places          Places         Apartments
Institution*            to be           to be            to be
and Location          Constructed     Constructed      Constructed
1.    Vocational Training
Centers
Shiraz                          160             -                -
Kermanshah                      120             -                -
Rasht                           120             -                -
Yazd                            120             -                -
Shahi                           120             -                -
Arak                            120             -                -
2.   Agricultural Schools
Ahwaz                          300            300              41
Boroujerd (extension)          100            100              28
Mashad (extension)              140           186              32
Kerman (remodeling)            100            100               -
Kabuterabad (extension)         150           210               5
Ali Abad (extension)            100            60              18
Rasht                          300            300              41
Said Abad (extension)          100             84              28


﻿18
Staff
Student        Boarding        Houses or
Type of               Places         Places         Apartments
Institution*            to be          to be            to be
and Location          Constructed    Constructed      Constructed
3.   Experimental Primary-
Guidance Cycle Schools
Ahwaz (2 schools)            2,240             -               2
Isfahan (2 schools)          2,240             -               2
Mashad (2 schools)           2,240             -               2
Tabriz (2 schools)           2,240             -               2
Tehran (4 schools)           4,480             -               4
4.   Multilateral Secondary
Schools
Ahwaz                         1,120            -               1
Isfahan                       1,120            -               1
Mashad                       1,120             -               1
Tabriz                        1,120            -               1
Tehran (2 schools),          2,240                             2
5.    Teacher Training
Colleges
Ahwaz                        1,200           800               3
Isfahan                      1,200           800               3
Mashad                       1,200           800               3
Tabriz                        1,200          800               3
6.   Faculties of
Education (extensions)
Ahwaz-University of
Jundishapur              350            350
Isfahan-University of
Isfahan                  350            350
Mashad-University of
Mashad                   350            350
Tehran-University of
Tehran                   350              -
*    New construction and one institution, unless otherwise indicated.


﻿19
(b)   the employment of educational specialists for the purposes of (i)
strengthening the administration, instructional methods, curricula and efficiency
of the above-listed institutions, and (ii) assisting in the preparation of the long-term
educational development plan of the Borrower. The services of such specialists will
total about 25 man-years.
The construction and equipment of the facilities included in Part (a) of the
Project are expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.
0I


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors will be pre-qualified.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Bank for its approval
the following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works required for carrying out the Project,
indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for bids and awards of such contracts. The contracts will
be grouped in such a way as to encourage international competitive
bidding. The invitations to bid for the educational institutions included
in the Project will, inter alia, specify that the bidder may submit offers
in respect of any institution or of all of them, together with related
facilities, or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to be opened
simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all the institutions and
facilities, or separate contracts in respect of the various institutions
and facilities to different contractors;
(b)   description of the proposed international advertising coverage to ensure
international competitive bidding, draft bid notices, pre-qualification
questionnaires and description of pre-qualification procedures;
(c)   reports and recommendations on the pre-qualification data submitted
and the proposed selected tender list; and
(d)   draft bidding documents and draft contracts.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated and before any award,
the Borrower will send to the Bank for its prompt approval a summary and analysis
of the bids and a brief justification of the Borrower's proposal for the award.
4.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded and before submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, a signed copy of the contract will be sent to the Bank.
5.    The Borrower will request the Bank's prior approval for any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the contract
sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.


﻿21
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Bank, for its
approval, the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of
each item. Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for
identification with: (i) the Project institutions; and (ii) the spaces for
which the items are required. The items to be purchased will be
grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items will be for amounts of $40,000 equivalent
or more. Such contracts in amounts less than $5,000 equivalent will
not be accepted by the Bank for approval or financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan. Amendments to such lists will also be submitted
to the Bank for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
description of the method to be used for obtaining bids on an
international basis.
2.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph B I (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
the lists.
3.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured furniture and equipment, for the purposes of comparison, the
following method will be used:
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the
Bank) in the territories of the Borrower; any bid offering other goods
shall be deemed a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.


﻿22
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been so compared, or (b) a contract
is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated bidder
(taking into account, if applicable, the foregoing paragraph B 3, or (c) a proposed
award involves a difference in price of 10% or more from the original estimate
as shown pursuant to paragraph B I (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids
have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the Bank for its prompt
approval, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of the Borrower's
proposal for the award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been
awarded and before submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the following will be sent to the Bank (if
not already furnished under paragraph B 4 above):
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods covered by
the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications
in the list approved by the Bank;
(b)   list of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   signed copy of the contract.


