Report No. 23173
Report No: I065437 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/24/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UGANDA Project ID: P065437
Project: Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project           Task Team
Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson
Appraisal Date: November 13, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: February 26, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 21.00
Managing Unit: AFTES     Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the Protected Area Management for Sustainable
Use Project (PAMSU) is the "Sustainable and cost-effective management of
Uganda's wildlife and cultural resources." Sustainability is promoted
through a combination of (1) providing funds for improving Uganda's
ability to attract tourists to its wildlife and cultural heritage while,
(2) encouraging cost-effective management strategies so as to reduce
overall operating costs of the institutions managing these resources. The
project consists of four components each the responsibility of one of the
four implementing agencies:
1. Uganda Wildlife Authority: Maintain cost-effective and efficient
wildlife management inside & outside Protected Areas
2. Uganda Wildlife Education Center: Public awareness and knowledge in
environmental and conservation issues created
3. Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry: Develop the framework for the
tourism sector of the economy to the maximum extent possible, consistent
with the protection of environmental and cultural values
4. Museums and Monuments: The Cultural heritage of Uganda preserved
A fifth component recognizes that the role of the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in effective coordination and proactive management of the
project is a capacity building effort which serves to develop itself and
other agencies. Indicators of effective management have been set for the
PCU to recognize this important role.
The prior project - ICB-PAMSU - financed the institutional strengthening
of the implementing agencies retained under PAMSU. PAMSU provides moderate
amount of financing to each agency for equipment, vehicles, and
incremental recurrent costs, along with those consultancies, primarily
international, to encourage cost-effective implementation of plans devised
under ICB-PAMSU.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project has four components, each implemented by agencies supported
under the prior ICB-PAMSU. ICB-PAMSU provided funds for capacity building,
especially strategic planning and organizational establishment. PAMSU
provides logistical funds, equipment, and civil works for sustaining the
agencies developed under ICB-PAMSU and to implement cost-effective



strategies for achieving objectives identified within those strategic
plans.
Component 1: Sustainable Wildlife Management Agency: Uganda Wildlife
Authority: The ICB-PAMSU project provided funding for establishing the
Uganda Wildlife Authority and developing its internal systems, management
team and governance structure. Also developed were the strategic plan for
the agency, along with methodologies for facilitating development of
Annual Operating Plans for each of the PAs that would implement the
general strategies. PAMSU will provide logistical support, and fund
equipment and civil works for UWA to implement elements of that strategic
plan. With these funds UWA will implement the Protected Areas System Plan
to rationalize and demarcate the boundaries of the national asset. The
project supports the cost-effective management of these assets at the
field level through logistical support, equipment and modest targeted
civil works for the Parks and Reserves. Civil works will target staff
accommodations in order to improve moral, effectiveness and reduce rent as
burden on overall agency operating costs. At headquarters, the project
will provide operating support and equipment for ongoing operations and
refurbish the existing headquarters building in order to save rent costs.
Component 2: Environmental Conservation Education Agency: Uganda Wildlife
Education Center: UWEC's activities will create public awareness and
knowledge about Uganda's wildlife as well as broader environmental and
conservation issues. The project will provide logistical support, some
equipment and modest construction funds for establishing new programs for
visitor education especially school children. UWEC will reach out to
school children around Uganda by funding both day time visits for nearby
schools and an overnight residency program for children living more
distant. New exhibits construction and maintenance highlighting Ugandan
wildlife will be funded by the project to increase the range of
educational messages of interest.
Component 3: Tourism Framework Agency: Ministry of Tourism, Trade and
Industry: MTTI's mission and efforts within the project focus upon
developing the tourism sector of the economy to the maximum extent
possible, consistent with the protection of environmental and cultural
values. The project will provide funding for logistics and equipment that
will (1) establish a sustainable tourism framework based on policy
development and enabling legislation; (2) provide for licensing and
registration of operators within the sector to ensure quality; (3) develop
accurate statistics on the sector; and (4) facilitate the improvement in
human resource training. In addition to funding these activities the
project will provide substantial funds for construction of a building for
the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry.
Component 4: Cultural Heritage Agency: Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency
The project provides moderate operational funds, some equipment and civil
works to continue the establishment of UMMA. These funds will finalize the
former Department's transition to a sustainable semi-autonomous agency and
facilitate expansion of the offerings at the Museum and the identification
and development of remote antiquarian sites of significant importance to
Uganda's cultural heritage.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Uganda
-2-



B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: Proposed GEF support (P075932) has been fully blended into the
Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project (PAMSU), and a
separate ISDS has not been prepared.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Rehabilitation of Existing UWA Headquarters and Ranger Outposts and Park
Offices: The project will support the rehabilitation of the existing
Uganda Wildlife Authority headquarters located in Kampala. It will also
support the rehabilitation of high priority rangers outposts and PA
offices in some of the PAs. No adverse environmental impacts are
anticipated as a result of these rehabilitation efforts.
Construction of New Ministry Building: The project will support the
construction of a new office building to house the Ministry of Tourism,
Trade and Industry and other related tourisms institutions. The land for
the building is owned by GOU and is adjacent to the Uganda Museums in
downtown Kampala. The site is already zoned by the Planning Authority of
the area, (the Kampala City Council) for office premises and therefore no
EIA will be required. The proposed site has been surveyed, and a
feasibility study and preliminary plans for the construction have been
drafted. No adverse environmental impacts are anticipated.
Implementation of Protected Areas System Plan (PASP): The objective of the
PASP is to rationalize and demarcate the boundaries of the protected areas
estate in Uganda. The PASP was developed through a consultative process
which involved a detailed negotiation with local communities to agree on
PA changes. Negotiations were effected through the 'Local Council' system,
beginning at village level, up through sub-counties to Districts. Many
workshops were held to facilitate the involvement of all stakeholders. The
PASP includes no new acquisition of land or extensions of any of the Pas.
All significant changes to boundaries represent excision of heavily
encroached areas in the PAs. Where it was agreed that a settled area
should be excised entirely from a PA, agreements were reached with local
councils on new boundaries. Boundary agreements were also reached in
instances where long-established fishing villages within protected areas
-3 -



(e.g. Queen Elizabeth NP) were to be demarcated as 'wildlife sanctuaries',
a PA category under UWA which permitted settlement, but with restrictions
on developments harmful to wildlife. Implementation of the plan will
include demarcation of all the PA boundaries. To minimize the costs of
establishing and maintaining the boundaries special efforts were made to
ensure that boundaries followed natural features where possible (e.g.
rivers, roads, hilltops etc.) Where boundaries are unclear or contentious,
concrete pillars will be installed every 150 meters. Another option for
marking boundaries is to plant trees along the boundaries. No negative
environmental impact is anticipated as a result of the demarcation
exercise.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
No alternatives were considered to be necessary, as environmental and
social impacts are expected to be minimal.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
As described above, the activities of the project do not invoke any of the
safeguard policies. No negative environmental impact is anticipated from
any of the proposed activities
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The stakeholders which were consulted during the development of the PASP
included national and local government representatives, the staff of the
PAs and local communities living adjacent to the PAs. The criteria for the
assessment included ecological, biological, economic and social criteria.
Negotiations on changes in boundaries were handled through the 'Local
Council' system, beginning at village level, up through sub-counties to
Districts. Many workshops were held to facilitate the involvement of all
stakeholders. Cabinet has endorsed the PASP and the plan is now with
Parliament.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
- 4 -



community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Available
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Nathalie Weier Johnson   10/22/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Dan R. Aronson/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
10/24/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         10/23/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Agi Kiss         10/22/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



