Report No. PID10669
Project Name                     Uganda-Protected Areas Management and ... @
Sustainable Use Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       UGPE65437
Supplemental Project             P075932
Borrower(s)                      The Republic Of Uganda
Implementing Agency
Ministry Of Tourism, Trade And Industry
Address: Plot 6/8 Farmers House, Parliament
Avenue, P.O. Box 7103, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Dr. S.P. Kagoda,
Permanent Secretary
Tel: 256-41-348286
Fax: 256-41-230916
Project Coordination Unit
Address: Plot 6/8, 5th Floor Farmers House,
P.O. Box 21957, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. David Abura-Ogwang,
Project Coordinator
Tel: 256-41-254827/8
Fax: 256-41-342011
Email:pamsu@pamsu.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 26, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 26, 2001
Projected Board Date             February 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Government Strategy to Address the Wildlife and Tourism Sector Issues and
ConstraintsRehabilitation and management of the wildlife and conservation
areas, revitalization of the tourism industry, and empowerment of local
governments and communities to manage and benefit from the sustainable use
of natural resources, are high priorities for the Government of Uganda as
demonstrated by a number of actions and policy and institutional reforms
it has taken over the past few years. The GOU has established a number of
parastatal and mixed public/private sector entities responsible for
different facets of the conservation and tourism sectors, many of which
were previously the direct responsibility of Government departments.
These include the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), the Uganda Wildlife
Education Centre (UWEC), the Uganda Tourist Board (UTB), and the recently
established Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency (UMMA).A major objective
of transferring these traditionally government functions to



semi-autonomous entities was to enhance their sustainability through
generation and retention of revenues, mainly from tourism related
activities. This is consistent with a growing trend around the world to
reduce the dependence of such bodies on increasingly stretched national
budgets. They are also intended to provide a synergetic linkage between
the public and private sectors, to facilitate the development and growth
of the tourism industry. Thus they represent an important model of
public/private cooperation for private sector development, also an
important element of the Uganda CAS.
2. Objectives
BackgroundTourism and Wildlife Sector in UgandaDue to its location in a
zone of overlap between the dry East African savannah and the West African
rain forest, Uganda possesses a rich natural endowment of forests,
mountains, and waterways, as well as some of the richest assemblages of
biological diversity in Africa. Its wide geographical and altitudinal
rage, spanning from 600 meters to 5100 meters, has resulted in a unique
diversity of ecosystems and species. These include extensive wetlands and
swamp areas, grass and woodland savannahs, tropical high forests, and
Afro-alpine forest areas. For its size, Uganda is one of the most
species-rich countries in Africa. For example, Uganda has more than 11. of
the world's bird species and more than 7t of total world mammals.This
biological diversity is protected through an system of protected areas,
currently undergoing a process of rationalization. After revision the area
of national parks, wildlife reserves and animal sanctuaries will amount
to 22,000 km2. The protected areas are managed by the Uganda Wildlife
Authority, parastatal formed in 1996 by merging Uganda National Parks and
the Game Department. Initially, the new UWA suffered from an unstable
management regime, and has only since early 1999 been able to focus on
building its organizational and management capacity.Before Uganda's period
of civil unrest starting in the early 1970s, Uganda was, based on its
wildlife, the premier tourism destination in East Africa. It's national
parks and cultural heritage still have the potential for forming the basis
of a competitive tourism product. Currently Uganda is the only country
where tourists can view mountain gorillas. Also competitive
internationally are two or three of its savannah parks, the Ruwenzori
Mountains, and opportunities for chimpanzee viewing. The country has
placed considerable emphasis on developing its tourism product. However,
development targets have consistently failed in recent years to meet
expectations for a range of internal and external reasons: continuing
insecurity in a number of parts of the country in which prime tourism
destinations are located; low capacity in the private sector to develop
tourism products and provide related services; problems with the
concessioning process for lodges and activities in National Parks; and the
low volumes leading to diseconomies of scale-current international
arrivals of leisure tourists are estimated to be approximately 5,000 per
annum. The focus of the proposed PAMSU project is on the rehabilitation
and sustainable managementof the natural resources The "Conservation and
Sustainable Tourism" (CAST) programme is the GOU's umbrella programme to
support conservation of the country's wildlife and cultural heritage and
assets and to implement the Integrated Tourism Master Plan (ITMP). ITMP
is based on Protected Areas (PAs) as the primary attraction, with a
secondary emphasis on cultural assets. It emphasizes that growth in the
sector must follow a modest pace corresponding to the rate of recovery of
the underlying natural assets and the rehabilitation and expansion of the
-2 -



supporting Infrastructure.    Some of the activities under CAST are already
well underway with support from donors such as the European Commission,
the Royal Netherlands Government, NORAD, USAID, KfW and the GTZ and the
World Bank. The proposed PAMSU Project is a follow-on project to the
Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and
Sustainable Use project (ICB-PAMSU), scheduled to close January 2002.
PAMSU represents the World Bank's second phase of support to the GOU's
CAST programme. The broad objectives of the of the ICB-PAMSU project have
been achieved, which provides the necessary capacity to proceed with the
PAMSU phase of support. Those achievements include the following: (1)    an
effective and efficient overall institutional framework for the
wildlife/protected areas management sector has been established, with
roles and capabilities of the various institutions well coordinated
including the relationships between public and private sector and NGOs;
(2) the planning, management and implementation capacity of the individual
sectoral institutions to ensure sustainability and accountability has been
strengthened; and (3) the overall human resource capacity and
professionalism in the sector has been improved. During the project
design and appraisal of the ICB-PAMSU project, benchmark indicators were
established to determine readiness for moving on to the PAMSU phase of
support. While work on some of the indicators is still in progress, the
benchmarks have been satisfactorily met (see Annex 14 for complete
details). Project Development ObjectiveThe development objective of the
Protected Area Management for Sustainable Use Project (PAMSU) is the
"Sustainable and cost-effective management of Uganda's wildlife and
cultural resources." Sustainability is promoted through a combination of
(1) providing funds for improving Uganda's ability to attract tourists to
its wildlife and cultural heritage while, (2) encouraging cost-effective
management strategies so as to reduce overall operating costs of the
institutions managing these resources. The project consists of four
components, each the responsibility of one of the four implementing
agencies:1. Uganda Wildlife Authority: Maintain cost-effective and
efficient wildlife management inside & outside Protected Areas2. Uganda
Wildlife Education Center: Public awareness and knowledge in
environmental and conservation issues created3. Ministry of Tourism, Trade
and Industry: Develop the framework for the tourism sector of the
economy to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the protection of
environmental and cultural values4. Museums and Monuments: The Cultural
Heritage of Uganda preservedA fifth component recognizes that the role of
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in effective coordination and
proactive management of the project is a capacity building effort which
serves to develop itself and other agencies. Indicators of effective
management have been set for the PCU to recognize this important role. The
prior project - ICB-PAMSU - financed the institutional strengthening of
the implementing agencies retained under PAMSU. PAMSU provides moderate
amount of financing to each agency for equipment, training, vehicles, and
incremental recurrent costs, along with those consultancies, primarily
international, to encourage cost-effective implementation of plans devised
under ICB-PAMSU.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has provided leadership and support for activities in the
wildlife/tourism sector since the 1990's. The PAMSU project is a
follow-on project from the ICB-PAMSU project which established the
institutional capacity and the policy framework for more effective
- 3 -



protected area management and nature-based and cultural tourism. Continued
Bank support for the sector, through the PAMSU project, will consolidate
the achievements made so far, and support the policy and institutional
reforms that have been established over the past three years. Given the
reduced state of the country's wildlife resources and the persistent
problems of insecurity, growth in tourism, and it's ability to support
conservation, is likely to be slow. The conservation and improved
management of Uganda's biological resources will only be possible if the
Bank and other donors provide the necessary support to protect the
resource base in the short term and to gradually restore and improve it in
the longer term. As one the GEF implementing agencies, the Bank can also
access the GEF resources to support the conservation and management of
globally significant biodiversity.
4. Description
The project has four components, each implemented by agencies supported
under the prior ICB-PAMSU. ICB-PAMSU provided funds for capacity building,
especially strategic planning and organizational establishment. PAMSU
provides logistical funds, equipment, and civil works for sustaining the
agencies developed under ICB-PAMSU and to implement cost-effective
strategies for achieving objectives identified within those strategic
plans. Component 1: Sustainable Wildlife Management Agency: Uganda
Wildlife Authority:    The ICB-PAMSU project provided funding for
establishing the Uganda Wildlife Authority and developing its internal
systems, management team and governance structure. Also developed was the
Strategic Plan for the agency, along with methodologies for facilitating
development of Annual Operating Plans for each of the PAs that would
implement the general strategies. PAMSU will provide logistical support,
and fund equipment and civil works for UWA to implement elements of that
strategic plan. With these funds UWA will implement the Protected Areas
System Plan to rationalize and demarcate the boundaries of the national
asset. The project supports the cost-effective management of these assets
at the field level through logistical support, equipment and modest
targeted civil works for the Parks and Reserves. Civil works will target
staff accommodations in order to improve moral, effectiveness and reduce
rent as burden on overall agency operating costs. At headquarters, the
project will provide operating support and equipment for ongoing
operations and refurbish the existing headquarters building in order to
save rent costs. The GEF share of this component reflects the incremental
cost of establishing and administering a protected area system that
contributes to protection of global biodiversity but is larger than
economically justified in the face of competing land uses and the basic
needs of a large and relatively poor rural population. Financial
sustainability of this higher central Government commitment may be built
up over the project period through reform of park entrance and other user
fees.The GEF funding of field operations is a higher share than of
headquarters expenditures because the additional level of effort to
maintain a PA system that ensures a comprehensive conservation and
sustainable use of a fully representative set of Uganda's biodiversity is
concentrated at the decentralized field level. This effort is focused on
maintaining infrastructure, supporting surveillance and monitoring, and
providing ongoing training in remote but biological important areas
typically not benefiting sufficiently from ecotourism.Protected Areas
System Plan (PASP)UWA, with support from the EU, and the ICB-PAMSU
Project, initiated a process of assessing the current status of the PA
-4 -



system with the aim of rationalizing it. The rationalization process
involved revising and re-aligning the PA system to ensure that it (i)
protects a high-quality, representative sample of the country's
biodiversity heritage and ecosystems, (ii) is manageable in the long term,
and (iii) provides a suitable basis for a sustainable tourism sector. The
assessment process took about 24 months; it included
ecological/biodiversity, economic and social criteria and involved
participation of national and local governments and potentially affected
communities. The GEF is called upon to support this activity in its
implementation phase, to ensure inclusion of areas of globally significant
biodiversity. Before the assessment was undertaken, comprehensive
knowledge of the coverage of Uganda's protected areas and the nation's
biodiversity represented in those areas (i.e.degree of replication,
inclusion of all major ecosystem types, etc.) was not known. The PASP
includes definition of appropriate boundaries, resolution of disputes
outstanding and arising from the process, and identification of areas for
pilot community conservation activiities. Implementation of the plan is
identified as part of an expensive process of "capitalization" of the
change towards an improved PA system in Uganda. Because of Uganda's
commitments under the Biodiversity Convention, this is a much more
comprehensive effort than would be warranted to meet Uganda's more limited
objectives of maintaining only the most affordable of the existing
PAs.Component 2: Environmental Conservation EducationAgency: Uganda
Wildlife Education Center:UWEC's activities will create public awareness
and knowledge about Uganda's wildlife as well as broader environmental and
conservation issues. The project will provide logistical support, some
equipment and modest construction funds for establishing new programs for
visitor education especially school children. UWEC will reach out to
school children around Uganda by funding both day time visits for nearby
schools and an overnight residency program for children living more
distant. New exhibits construction and maintenance highlighting Ugandan
wildlife will be funded by the project to increase the range of
educational messages of interest. Support will also be provided for
improved animal holding and veterninary facilities for both the needs of
UWEC and the Wildlife Department.GEF resources would support conservation
education awareness programs; the captive animal facilities would be
supported from IDA funds. The relatively high proportion of GEF
assistance to this component recognizes that, in the very long term,
better public awareness of Uganda's unique national biological heritage
and the economic benefits of biodiversity conservation will build support
and willingness to pay for conservation of these resources in the face of
competing land-use and other development pressures.Component 3: Tourism
FrameworkAgency: Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry: MTTI's mission
and efforts within the project focus upon developing the tourism sector of
the economy to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the protection
of environmental and cultural values. The project will provide funding for
logistics and equipment that will (1) establish a sustainable tourism
framework based on policy development and enabling legislation; (2)
provide for licensing and registration of operators within the sector to
ensure quality; (3) develop accurate statistics on the sector; and (4)
facilitate the improvement in human resource training. In addition to
funding these activities the project will provide substantial funds for
construction of a building for the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and
Industry. Under this component, support will also be provided for the
Wildlife Department in the MTTI. This support includes training,
- 5 -



equipment, management support and technical capacity building to enable
the Wildlife Department to carry out Uganda's responsibilities under
relevant international treaties, and in particular to function effectively
as the Management Authority for the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES).The requested GEF assistance for this activity
recognizes the need for additional training, surveillance and technical
facilities, especially for strengthening, monitoring and regulating trade
in live animals and animal and plant products listed under CITES.Component
4: Cultural HeritageAgency: Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency The
project provides moderate operational funds, some equipment and civil
works to continue the establishment of UMMA. These funds will finalize the
former Department's transition to a sustainable semi-autonomous agency and
facilitate expansion of the offerings at the Museum and the identification
and development of remote antiquarian sites of significant importance to
Uganda's cultural heritage.
Sustainable Wildlife Management
Environmental Conservation Education
Tourism Framework
Cultural Heritage
Project Coordination Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 8
IDA 21
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 8
Total Project Cost 37
6. Implementation
Policy, Institutional and Legislative Framework for Project
ImplementationPAMSU operates within the legislative framework established
by the Uganda Wildlife Statute 1996 and supports the development of
enabling legislation following revision of tourism policy currently in
progress.Implementation will be the responsibility of 4 main implementing
agencies, one for each component: Uganda Wildlife Authority, Ministry of
Tourism, Trade and Industry, Uganda Wildlife Education Centre, and Uganda
Museums and Monuments Agency.Uganda Wildlife AuthorityUganda Wildlife
Authority was established in 1996 with the mandate of: ensuring the
sustainable management of wildlife conservation areas; and establishing
policies and procedures to manage and regulate the use of wildlife outside
protected areas. Subject to the approval of the Protected Areas Assessment
(the national protected area systems plan) currently before Parliament and
expected before project commencement, UWA is responsible for 10 National
Parks, 13 Wildlife Reserves and technical oversight of 5 Community
Wildlife Areas.UWA is under the general supervision of the Minister. The
governing body is the Board of Trustees appointed by the Minister in
accordance with the Schedule to the Uganda Wildlife Statute. This provides
for 21 members, although in practice some of these positions have been
vacant. ICB-PAMSU supported board development through preparation of
formal TORs which have been adopted by the ministry and a procedures
manual to guide Board work. This work resulted in recommendations to
reform the composition of the board to make it more appropriate to its
TORs. This requires an amendment to the Schedule to the Statute which is
currently being considered by cabinet. The term of the present Board has
expired and it is expected that a new Board will be in place by project
- 6 -



commencement.ICB-PAMSU supported a number of measures to strengthen the
institutional capacity of UWA. These included: the appointment of an
internationally recruited Executive Director on a three year contract to
oversee UWA's development, the provision of an institutional contractor to
develop financial management systems; the development of a training plan
(not yet implemented) and the development of a strategic plan.Under the
USAID supported Action Plan for the Environment project, UWA has been
developing capacity for protected area systems planning and is currently
improving its ability to prepare, implement and monitor annual operations
plans at HQ and field level.Uganda Wildlife Education CentreThe Uganda
Wildlife Education Centre is legally established as a Trust with a 9
member Board appointed by the Minister, and registered in Uganda. UWEC has
been successful at attracting a number of private sector donors. This
donations are generally restricted to the development of new exhibits
rather than running costs, which have been met by GoU subvention,
self-generated funds (mostly admission fees) and ICB-PAMSU.Until 2000,
UWEC had an expatriate Director funded by USAID. He is now acting as a
technical advisor.Ministry of Tourism, Trade and IndustryThree
Departments, all falling under the Commission of Tourism, Wildlife and
Antiquities are supported by the project. These are: Tourism Development,
Registration and Licensing, and Wildlife.Uganda Museums and Monuments
AgencyA decision to transform the Department of Antiquities and Museums
into a semi-autonomous agency was taken by the Ministry of Public Services
in July 2001 (after several years of discussion as to whether to transform
it into an autonomous authority by act of Parliament.) The GoU has engaged
consultants to assist in the transformation, including the preparation of
strategic and business plans. UMMA will be seen by a representative 8
member advisory board and managed by a chief executive.PCUThe Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTTI has been responsible for coordination
and oversight of ICB-PAMSU and for the preparation of PAMSU. Its
responsibilities include donor liaison, program identification,
procurement of goods and services and contract management. To benefit from
economies of scale, build on existing capacity and reduce the
administrative burden on the implementing agencies, the PCU will continue
to play this role during PAMSU.The PCU will have overall responsibility
for procurement (planning and implementation), disbursement, auditing and
reporting, and also for ensuring that each Implementing Agency (IA)
submits acceptable Annual Work Plans and progress reports in a timely
fashion. Based on inputs from the IAs, prior to project effectiveness, the
PCU will prepare a Procurement Plan for the whole project, and a Work Plan
for the first six months of the project, to be reviewed and agreed by IDA.
Every six months thereafter, the PCU will obtain from the IAs and forward
to IDA for review, a Work Plan for the next six months and an update of
the Procurement Plan if needed. The PCU will also submit an annual
progress report to the Government and the Bank, covering both its own
activities and those of each IA. At its discretion, and with the prior
agreement of the Bank, the PCU may delegate selected administrative and
implementation responsibilities to any given IA. This will be based on the
Project Director's assessment that the agency is able to undertake this
activity in accordance with Government and World Bank requirements, and
the PCU will retain overall responsibility to ensure that these
requirements are met. The project will support TA, equipment and other
operating costs for the PCU. Under the TA category, the project will
support the positions of Director, Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and
Accountant along with support staff. This is in recognition of the demands
-7 -



which the complexity of the program (numerous IAs, each with its own
objectives, program of activities and time frames) will put on the PCU.
The project will also support a modest allocation of unprogrammed
short-term TA funds to meet unforeseen needs of the PCU or any of the IAs.
Equipment to be procured includes a vehicle to be used by the PCU for
project coordination purposes, and the PCU will also make it available to
the other IAs for project-related purposes as and when required. Operating
costs will include rental of office space as well as other routine costs
of vehicle operation, materials and supplies, travel, etc.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed to ensure sustainability of the institutions
developed under ICB-PAMSU by providing modest operating finances to
continue operations and to implement plans designed. The result of this
strategy will be a more cost-effective and sustainable management of
Uganda's wildlife resource; one able to prioritize management of the
existing PA system, operate that system efficiently and take full
advantage of any tourism growth that might emerge from promotion of
Uganda's wildlife heritage. The project promotes sustainability in three
ways:1. Designed to ensure institutional sustainability: The GoU has
established UWA, UWEC, and soon UMMA as semi-autonomous agencies in order
to reduce their dependence on government subventions and thereby promote
their financial sustainability. ICB-PAMSU provided funding for the initial
steps required by these organizations: institutional "culture" change,
strategic and business planning, and development of appropriate management
systems and staff with the skills and incentives to implement them. PAMSU,
by assisting these institutions to institutionalize and solidify gains
made under the previous project will contribute directly to their
sustainability.2. Designed to move towards financial sustainability: A
new macro-economic operating environment has emerged since the design, in
1996, of PAMSU; tourism's return has been and is likely to be slower than
anticipated while, though the government's overall economic condition has
improved, its financial allocations are attuned to protection of national
boundaries and economic growth. The institutions included within PAMSU
must realign their strategic objectives, focusing upon cost-effective
management of resources and sustainable investment strategies.     The
project is designed to encourage continued development of tourism
opportunities, policy and infrastructure as a necessary condition for
growth with the return of tourism. At the same time it recognizes that
this process may be long and the period prior to substantial tourist
return may be one of limited resources. The UWA will be encouraged,
through with minimal and focused funding, to develop the most cost
effective strategies for sustainable fulfilling its role as the manager of
the wildlife resource. Key to this effort is a yearly monitoring mission
tasked to support management achieve its objectives in developing and
implementing cost effective strategies. 3. Designed to support
environmental sustainability: The futures of PAs and wildlife resources
and of the tourism industry are inter-dependent, as the PAs and wildlife
provide the main basis for tourism. As the guardian of Uganda's natural
and wildlife heritage UWA must sustain the wildlife resources as a
necessary condition for any recovery of tourism. Ensuring effective
management of these resources is essential to achieving both conservation
and economic growth objectives. The project will also contribute to
long-term sustainability by supporting an ongoing process of assessment
and rationalization of the existing PA system, aimed at increasing
- 8 -



operational efficiency and reducing costs. Under ICB-PAMSU the management
of some adjacent Parks and Reserves has been consolidated into Zone
management systems for both ecological and cost-saving reasons. PAMSU
funding is necessary to continue the initiative and to consider how
existing wildlife resources might most effectively be managed.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from ICB-PAMSUICB-PAMSU was intended to provide sufficient
institutional capacity for implementing PAMSU. Experience with capacity
building under ICB-PAMSU suggests implementing agencies have not yet
developed the capacity necessary to effectively absorb a substantial
investment program. This was in part a result of the relatively short
timeframe allowed. Although PAMSU makes limited new initiatives in
capacity building, it anticipates that the implementing organizations will
continue to put effort into developing capacity, and adapting their plans
to current circumstances.Much of the 'strategic' planning undertaken in
ICB-PAMSU has taken the implementing organizations further from, rather
than closer to financial sustainability. In part this is a consequence of
the circumstances under which the plans were prepared-as conditionalities
for a follow on investment project. The plans prepared have focused
operational efficiency more than strategic issues. Genuinely strategic
decisions have not resulted from the participatory processes used to
prepare the plans. As an example, one of the more successful inputs to UWA
was the contracting out of the financial management function. This was
decided on as part of ICB-PAMSU design. This kind of decision needs to be
taken at the most senior level in the face of external pressure. PAMSU
places limited emphasis on the preparation of further strategic plans-the
principle exception being the 'business plan' proposed for UWA. Careful
consideration will be given to the process used to prepare this plan to
avoid the pitfalls described. PAMSU places emphasis on translating plans
into operations, improving cost effectiveness, and monitoring
implementation.Lessons from Bank projects in Kenya's tourism and wildlife
sectorThe experience with comparable Bank supported wildlife sector
reforms in Kenya was drawn upon in the formulation of ICB-PAMSU and is
still relevant. The sector received assistance from the Bank under the
Wildlife and Tourism project (1976-1986) and the "Protected Areas and
Wildlife Service" (PAWS) project (1992-2000). The Implementation
Completion Report and Project Audit attributed the failure of the earlier
project primarily to an inadequate policy framework, institutional
failures and a lack of Government commitment to the project's objectives,
as well as to the Bank's failure to hold firm on the agreed
conditionalities. By contrast, the success of the PAWS project, which has
had a major positive impact in reducing commercial poaching and improving
the infrastructure and management of Kenya's PAs, demonstrates the
benefits of ensuring that these issues are addressed up front. At the same
time, the slow progress of the parastatal Kenya Wildlife Service in moving
toward a business-like organizational culture and financial
sustainability, holds important lessons for the Uganda Wildlife Authority,
which started from a similar situation and is aiming for similar
objectives. PAWS showed that a major investment in infrastructure does
place substantial demands on scarce management time and suggested that, as
here, relatively modest such investments are more appropriate.Other
lessons from Bank tourism and wildlife projectsOther lessons being taken
from Bank-assisted projects and other experiences around the world,
include the importance of building support for conservation at a political
-9-



level and among communities adjacent to PAs, and the need to encourage
collaboration among institutions rather than building parallel capacity in
each.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nathalie Weier Johnson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3765
Fax: 202-473-8185
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 30,2001
- 10 -



