Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22914-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.7 MILLION (US$27.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A
PROPOSED GEF GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE USE PROJECT
June 4, 2002
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 26, 2001)
Currency Unit = Shillings
UShs I = US$0.00058
US$1 = UShs 1737
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CAST           Conservation and Sustainable Tourism
CBD            Convention on Biological Diversity
CBO            Community Based Organization
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CITES          Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
COP            Conference of Parties
DAM            Department of Antiquities and Museums
EC             European Commission
EOP            End of Project
EFMP II        Second Economic and Financial Management Project
GEF            Global Environment Fund
GOU            Government of Uganda
IA             Implementing Agency
ICB-PAMSU      Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use
IDA            International Development Association
ITMP           Integrated Tourism Master Plan
KD             Kidepo National Park
LGDP           Local Government Development Project
MF             Murchison Falls National Park
MTTI           Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NP             National Parks
PA             Protected Area
PAMSU          Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use
PASP           Protected Areas System Plan
PAWS           Protected Areas and Wildlife Service
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PEAP           Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Support Paper
QE             Queen Elizabeth National Park
SWAP           Sector Wide Action Plan
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Term of Reference
UMMvA          Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency
UTB            Uganda Tourist Board
UWA            Uganda Wildlife Authority
UWEC           Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
UWS            Uganda Wildlife Statute
WCE            Wildlife Conservation Education
WD             Wildlife Department
WR             Wildlife Resources
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:  Richard G. Scobey
Team Leader:   Nathalie W. Johnson



UGANDA
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE USE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Global objective                                                                   5
3. Key performance indicators                                                         5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         8
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          19
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     20
5. Environmental                                                                     22
6. Social                                                                            22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  24
2. Critical risks                                                                   25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  26
G. Main Credit/Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         26
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Incremental Costs and Global Enviromnental Benefits                           40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Anangements                                      65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          78
Annex 11: Threats and Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss and Mitigating Actions          80
Annex 12: STAP Technical Review                                                        83
Annex 13: Response to the STAP Technical Review                                        85
Annex 14: Letter of Endorsement                                                        86
MAP(S)
IBRD 29597



UGANDA
Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Dat.: June 4, 2002                                Team Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson
Cot ntry Director: Judy M. O'Connor               Sector Manager: Richard G. Scobey
Pro lect ID: P065437                              Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P075932                   Team Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson
Foc l Area: B - Biodiversity                      Sector Manager/Director: Richard G. Scobey
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): VY - Other Environment
HetFinancing' Dat' ' -                     - -    -  -- -  -  - -- - - - -----  --  -..
1)Loan      [XI Credit    [XI Grant     [ 1 Guarantee    [ Other:
Foi Loans/CredltslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 35.0 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Gr3ce period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                              Service charge: 0.75%
Finahcing Plan (USSm):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                             3.00           0.00          3.00
IDA                                                           18.90           8.10         27.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    6.10           1.90          8.00
Tolal:                                                        28.00          10.00         38.00
Bicrrower/Recipient: THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TOURISM, TRADE AND INDUSTRY
Project Coordination Unit
Acdress: Plot 6/8, 5th Floor Farmers House, P.O. Box 21957, Kampala, Uganda
Ccntact Person: Mr. David Abura-Ogwang, Project Director
Tel: 256-41-254827/W           Fax: 256-41-342011            Email: pamsu@pamsu.org
Ot'ier Agency(ies):
Uganda Wildlife Authority
Address: Plot 3 Kintu Road, Nakasero, P.O. Box 3530, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Dr. Arthur R Mugisha, Executive Director
Tel: 256-41-346287           Fax: 256-41-346291            Email: uwa@uwa.or.ug
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
Address: P.O. Box 369, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Ms. Beti 0. Kamya, Executive Director
Tel: 256-41-320520           Fax: 256-41-320073            Email:



P065437 Estimated Disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY-    -   2003      2004       2005     2006      2007
Annual     8.80      6.00      4.20      4.20       3.80
Cumulative     8.80     14.80     19.00     23.20     27.00
P075932 (GEF) Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY      [  2003 -    2004   - -2005-     2006      2007-
Annual     2.30      2.40      1.60      0.90      0.80           I
Cumulative        2.30      4.70      6.30      7.20      8.00          l
Project Implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/03/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Background
Tourism and Wildlife Sector in Uganda
Due to its location in a zone of overlap between the dry East African savannah and the West African rain
forest, Uganda possesses a rich natural endowment of forests, mountains, and waterways, as well as some
of the richest assemblages of biological diversity in Africa. Its wide geographical and altitudinal range,
spanning from 600 meters to 5100 meters, has resulted in a unique diversity of ecosystems and species.
These include extensive wetlands and swamp areas, grass and woodland savannahs, tropical high forests,
and Afro-alpine forest areas. For its size, Uganda is one of the most species-rich countries in Africa. For
example, Uganda has more than 11% of the world's bird species and more than 7% of total world
mammals.
This biological diversity is protected through a system of protected areas, currently undergoing a process of
rationalization. After revision the area of national parks, wildlife reserves and animal sanctuaries will
amount to 22,000 km2. The protected areas are managed by the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), a
parastatal formed in 1996 by merging Uganda National Parks and the Game Department. Initially, the new
UWA suffered from an unstable management regime, and has only since early 1999 been able to focus on
building its organizational and management capacity.
Before Uganda's period of civil unrest starting in the early 1970s, Uganda was, based on its wildlife, the
premier tourism destination in East Africa. Its national parks and cultural heritage still have the potential
for forming the basis of a competitive tourism product. Currently Uganda is the only country where
tourists can view mountain gorillas. Also competitive internationally are two or three of its savannah
parks, the Ruwenzori Mountains, and opportunities for chimpanzee viewing. The country has placed
considerable emphasis on developing its tourism product. However, development targets have consistently
failed in recent years to meet expectations for a range of internal and external reasons: continuing insecurity
in a number of parts of the country in which prime tourism destinations are located; low capacity in the
private sector to develop tourism products and provide related services; problems with the concessioning
process for lodges and activities in National Parks; and the low volumes leading to diseconomies of scale -
current international arrivals of leisure tourists are estimated to be approximately 5,000 per annum. The
focus of the proposed Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use (PAMSU) project is on the
rehabilitation and sustainable management of the natural resources
The "Conservation and Sustainable Tourism" (CAST) program is the GOU's umbrella program to support
conservation of the country's wildlife and cultural heritage and assets and to implement the Integrated
Tourism Master Plan (ITMP). ITMP is based on Protected Areas (PAs) as the primary attraction, with a
secondary emphasis on cultural assets. It emphasizes that growth in the sector must follow a modest pace
corresponding to the rate of recovery of the underlying natural assets and the rehabilitation and expansion
of the supporting Infrastructure.
The proposed PAMSU Project is a follow-on project to the Institutional Capacity Building for Protected
Areas Management and Sustainable Use project (ICB-PAMSU), scheduled to close December 2002.
PAMSU represents the World Bank's second phase of support to the GOUs CAST program. The broad
objectives of the ICB-PAMSU project have been achieved, which provides the necessary capacity to
- 3-



proceed with the PAMSU phase of support Those achievements include the following: (1) an effective and
efficient overall institutional framework for the wildlife/protected areas management sector has been
established, with roles and capabilities of the vanous institutions well coordinated including the
relationships between public and private sector and NGOs; (2) the planning, management and
implementation capacity of the individual sectoral institutions to ensure sustainability and accountability
has been strengthened, and (3) the overall human resource capacity and professionalism in the sector has
been improved. During the project design and appraisal of the ICB-PAMSU project, benchmark indicators
were established to determine readiness for moving on to the PAMSU phase of support. While work on
some of the indicators is still in progress, the benchmarks have been satisfactorily met
Project Development Objective
The development objective of the PAMSU is the "Sustainable and cost-effective management of Uganda's
wildlife and cultural resources". Sustainability is promoted through a combination of (1) providing funds
for improving Uganda's ability to attract tourists to its wildlife and cultural heritage while, (2) encouraging
cost-effective management strategies so as to reduce overall operating costs of the institutions managing
these resources. The project consists of four components, each the responsibility of one of the four
implementing agencies:
1.  Uganda Wildlife Authority: Maintain cost-effective and efficient wildlife management inside &
outside Protected Areas
2. Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC): Public awareness and knowledge in environmental
and conservation issues created
3. Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry (MTI): Develop the framework for the tourism sector
of the economy to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the protection of environmental and
cultural values
4. Department of Antiquities and Museums (DAM): The Cultural Heritage of Uganda preserved
The project also finances the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The role of the PCU is to promote effective
coordination and proactive management of the project, and capacity building which serves to develop other
agencies. Indicators of effective management have been set for the PCU to recognize this important role.
The prior project - ICB-PAMSU - financed the institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies
retained under PAMSU. PAMSU provides moderate amount of financing to each agency for equipment,
training, vehicles, and incremental recurrent costs, along with those consultancies, primarily international,
to encourage cost-effective implementation of plans devised under ICB-PAMSU.
-4 -



2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The global environmental objective is to ensure the effective, long-term conservation of Uganda's
biodiversity in the face of competing economic pressures. Protection will be ensured over a wide range of
ecosystem types, including wetlands, swamps, tropical high forests, Afroalpine forests, grass and woodland
savannahs, and internationally important lakes and rivers. Uganda is the fourth most densely populated
country in Africa, 89% rural, with 85 people per square kilometer, largely dependent on smallholder
agriculture for sustenance, and with a steep population growth rate. At the same time, Uganda ranks in the
top ten nations in Africa in terms of species numbers for all major taxa, and among the top ten in the world
for mammals, including over half of the known world population of mountain gorilla. Its concentration of
biological wealth offers exceptional opportunities to achieve global biodiversity conservation objectives
cost-effectively. The project design is consistent with guidance from the Conference of the Parties as it
addresses in situ conservation as it includes: (i) capacity building; (ii) strengthening the conservation,
management, and sustainable use of ecosystems and habitats; (iii) strengthening the involvement of local
and indigenous people; and (iv) integrating social dimensions including those related to poverty.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in achieving the project development objective will be evaluated on the basis of key performance
indicators. These indicators, along with an indication of their means of assessment are:
1. Revenue generation at UWA increases to UShs 6.Obn by the 5th year, to be assessed through review
of UWA's financial records.
2.  Poaching of key species in patrol area reduced from initial baseline. Poaching incidents are to be
assessed through field visits and review of UWA staff reports during the annual monitoring review
and included in the Annual Review report
3.  Population number of key mrnmmal species in Queen Elizabeth (QE), Murchison Falls (MF), Kidepo
(KD) conservation areas increase by 5% within 5 years. An aerial survey, along with ground
verification of key mammal species is to be conducted in the 5th year of the project within Parks for
which baseline data exists from 1993 and 1999/2000.
4.  Communities are satisfied with UWA response to problem animals. Assessments are to be conducted
of those communities near Queen Elizabeth and Kibale National Parks that have reported significant
number of problem animal incidents in the past
5.  Approximately 120,000 visitors/year including 80,000 students visit Uganda Wildlife Education
Centre. Gate records from UWEC provide accurate records of attendance.
6.  Ministry of Education adopts Wildlife Conservation Education (WCE) into primary school education
in Uganda by End of Project (EOP). This objective can be assessed by review of curriculum.
7.  40% of primary schools receive Wildlife Conservation Education material by EOP The Ministry of
Education's records, along with those of UWEC provide the means of verifying this indicator.
8.  Accurate and reliable information (statistics, market analysis, etc) about Uganda's tourist potential is
established.
Implementation effectiveness is assessed through Indicators of Performance for each of the components and
the agency which implement those components. Organized according to the component's implementing
agency, significant of these are:
-5 -



Uganda Wildlife Agency:
1.  Implementation of the Protected Area Systems Plan. This is to be assessed by the demarcation of
boundaries
2.  The development of cost-effective strategies for managing the existing Park Assets. This will be
assessed by the completion and implementation of General Management Plans for the Protected Areas
as well as the integration of specific Annual Operating Plans toward achieving those objectives.
3. Improvements in financial sustainability of the systems is encouraged by developing, over the 5 years,
detailed analysis of the costs of PA operations and, from that, criteria from whence the PA can be
managed more effectively.
4. Crucial for both immediate and long-term sustainability is improving the revenue base of UWA.
Targets for this include substantial improvements in collection of gate and concession revenue as well
as developing a more stable revenue base through encouraging more visitations by Ugandan nationals.
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre:
1.  Efforts towards creating public awareness and knowledge in environmental and conservation issues
will be assessed through achievement of a wildlife conservation curriculum integrated into primary
school education. Regular visitation will be increased through expanding the day-trip and overnight
programs for school child education.
2.  The center's message and appeal will be expanded through development of three major exhibits
(Rhino, and both Kidepo and Lake Mburo ecological zones). An indicator of its rehabilitation efforts
will be completion and population of a new Chimpanzee rehabilitation site.
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry:
The Ministry's role in creating an effective tourism framework will be assessed by the adoption of a
Tourism Policy and enabling legislation; along with licensing and registration of major service providers,
and the completion of an extensive data base to provide accurate and reliable information to the industry.
Department of Antiquities and Museums:
The Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency (UMMA) will be established as a semi-autonomous body
to conserve and promote awareness of Uganda's cultural heritage. Indicators of performance that this
objective is being achieved are: (1) the identification and development in a sustainable way of two
antiquarian sites outside of Kampala; and (2) steady increase in visitation to the National Museum in
Kampala from its early post renovation baseline.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-187 (IFC/R2000-202) Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/16/2000
The Bank discussed the Poverty Reduction Support Paper (PRSP) on May 2, 2000 (Document Number:
IDA/SecM2000-0145) and the PRSP Progress Report was discussed on May 31, 2001 (Document Number
IDA/SecM2001-0219).
-6 -



Government's strategy for economic transformation is spelled out in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan
(PEAP) 2000. The PEAP provides a framework for Government planning and guides the fonnulation of
Sector Wide Action Plans (SWAPs). The prirnary objective of the PEAP is to develop policies and
resource allocations aimed at improving the welfare of all Ugandans and reducing the incidence of poverty
to 10% or less by the year 2017. Government envisages that the following tbree conditions are
pre-requisite for economic growth to eradicate poverty:
*   Structural transfornation (agricultural modemization, industrialization, institutional reforms and
capacity development).
*   The poor must participate in economic growth by expanding smallholder agriculture and employment
in the industry and services sectors as well as expansion of the rural based non-farm enterprises.
* Economic growth must be sustainable. In particular, the modernization of agriculture will need to
ensure that renewable natural resources are conserved and not "mined" in the pursuit of short-term
growth. Therefore, judicious management of land, forests, wetlands, rangelands, rivers, lakes and the
environment is essential for sustaining any gains in poverty eradication that are made possible by
pursuing the above two conditions.
The primary goal of the joint IDA/IFC CAS is also substantial reduction of poverty in Uganda. The Bank
is committed to supporting Uganda's economic transformation and poverty reduction strategy as spelled out
in the PEAP. To achieve this objective, work to maintain macroeconomic stability will continue, but the
Bank's assistance will increasingly shift to the sector level and to cross-cutfing public sector management
issues. One of these cross-cutting issues is environmental management. As stated in the CAS, an
overarching consideration of the economic transformation is that development and growth must occur in an
environmentally sustainable manner, given that 90 percent of Uganda's population is directly dependent on
the country's natural resource base. The activities financed under PAMSU represent a key part of the
Government's overall sector wide action plan on environment and are consistent with objectives of the
CAS. To help realize the sector-related CAS objectives, PAMSU will provide resources for ensuring
conservation of biodiversity and historical heritage assets which wil lead to overall environrnental
protection and sustainable development
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Government of Uganda ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in September 1993. In
addition, it has ratified the CITES and the Ramsar Convention on wetlands. The Government's
commitmnent to environmental protection and sustainable natural resource conservation and management is
laid out in the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) approved by Parliament in June 1994, and in
the Uganda Biodiversity Country Study. In the NEAP, the Government makes a comnmitment to conserving
biodiversity both inside and outside protected areas.
The activities proposed under the project are in accordance with the GEF Operational Strategy for
Biodiversity. The project is Uganda's major initiative to effectively integrate the conservation of
biodiversity into national development It focuses on a range of ecosystems representative of Uganda's
biodiversity, including savannals, mountains and forests. It will therefore contribute to the GEF
operational progams for Arid and Semi-arid Ecosysterns, Mountain Ecosystems and Forest Ecosystems.
As called for by these programs and in support of Article 8 of the CBD the project focuses on in situ
conservation in designated areas of biodiversity importance. The project is also consistent with guidance
from the COP of the Convention of Biological Diversity as it addresses in situ conservation and sustainable
use and includes (i) capacity building; (ii) strengthening the conservation, management, and sustainable use
- 7 -



of ecosystems and habitats and endemic species; (iii) strengthening the involvement of local and indigenous
people; and (iv) integrating social dimensions including those related to poverty. It responds to COP3
guidance by: providing capacity building, especially to local and indigenous communities through
innovation mechanisms to involve them in protected area and wildlife management; providing support to
activities that relate to other international conventions; creating economic incentives for the conservation of
biodiversity; promoting conservation awareness and infornation dissemination.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Government Strategy to Address the Wildlife and Tourism Sector Issues and Constraints
Rehabilitation and management of the wildlife and conservation areas, revitalization of the tourism
industry, and empowerment of local governments and communities to manage and benefit from the
sustainable use of natural resources, are high priorities for the Government of Uganda as demonstrated by
a number of actions and policy and institutional reforms it has taken over the past few years. The GOU
has established a number of parastatal and mixed public/private sector entities responsible for different
facets of the conservation and tourism sectors, many of which were previously the direct responsibility of
Government departments. These include the Uganda Wildlife Authority, the Uganda Wildlife Education
Centre, the Uganda Tourist Board (UTB), and the Department of Antiquities and Museums.
A major objective of transferring these traditionally government functions to semi-autonomous entities was
to enhance their sustainability through generation and retention of revenues, mainly from tourism related
activities. This is consistent with a growing trend around the world to reduce the dependence of such
bodies on increasingly stretched national budgets. They are also intended to provide a synergetic linkage
between the public and private sectors, to facilitate the development and growth of the tourism industry.
Thus they represent an important model of public/private cooperation for private sector development, also
an important element of the Uganda CAS.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The primary development issue to be addressed by the project is the rehabilitation of the wildlife and
cultural resources of Uganda, both from a biological and institutional perspective. The project seeks to
build on commitment by Government and other ongoing environment sector reform projects to change
attitudes and create an awareness of the economic and ecological significance of wildlife and cultural
assets, both for the present and future generations of Ugandans.
Capacity Building and Institutional Framework Development
There is still a recognized lack of capacity in the wildlife/tourism sector in Uganda which the PAMSU
projects aims to address. Under ICB-PAMSU progress has been made towards building the necessary
capacity, both institutional and policy related, however, more work needs to be done. The focus of the
PAMSU project is more concentrated, Uganda Wildlife Authority and the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and
Industry are the two principal organizations through which this project aims to achieve its central objective.
The project will continue to provide resources to carry out reform, rehabilitation and effective strategic
planring and management This will be achieved through the complementary activities envisaged in the
Tourism Policy and Strategic Plan, which is focused on creating a sustainable tourism industry which
supports wildlife and cultural assets as well as creative and cost-effective public/private sector partnership
solutions.
-8 -



Sustainability
Sustainability of the institutions and'agencies charged with managing and protecting the natural resource
base upon which the nature-based tourism is based is a major concernL The project seeks to contribute to
this at the macro level by supporting cross-cutting legislation review, increased sector coordination and the
promotion of appropriate investment from stakeholders. At the organizational level, cost-effective
management and increased cost-sharing partnerships will be sought.
Regulation, Legislation and the Custody of Assets
This project seeks to support the implementation of a framework of legislation that regulates and monitors
the industry development whilst securing the integrity of the assets on which the industry is based. The
protection of assets require formal legislation, currently absent, and a regulatory mechanism. This applies
from the delineation of PA boundaries to the licensing of tour operators and hotels and training standards
within the industry.
Security
Whilst not an issue to be directly addressed by the project, security is a significant sector issue that the
project does address indirectly through the development of cross-cutting legislation review, continued
dissemination of the message that the viability of PAs depends on tourism which in turn depends on
security and the facilitation of improved coordination and advocacy within, and for the sector.
Weakness of the Private Sector
The weakness of the private sector with respect to tourism is a legacy of the years of civil unrest The
private sector is currently a weak partner, lacking financial resources and professionalism, all of which
hinders the viability of the fundamental objective of this project It is expected that the policy development
process and subsequent legislation will capture and address prohibitive issues flagged by the private sector.
The project will also contribute to the improved institutional arrangements within the private sector,
improving their lobby with government and other stakeholders.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has four components, each implemented by agencies supported under the prior ICB-PAMSU.
ICB-PAMSU provided funds for capacity building, especially strategic planning and organizational
establishment PAMSU provides logistical fumds, equipment, and civil works for sustaining the agencies
developed under ICB-PAMSU and to implement cost-effective strategies for achieving objectives identified
within those strategic plans. GEF resources are proposed to finance two out of the four components,
sustainable wildlife management and environmental conservation education.
Component 1: Sustainable Wildlife Management
Agency: Uganda Wildlife Authority
The ICB-PAMSU project provided funding for establishing the Uganda Wildlife Authority and developing
its internal systems, management team and governance structure. Also developed was the Strategic Plan
9



for the agency, along with methodologies for facilitating development of Annual Operating Plans for each
of the PAs that would implement the general strategies. PAMSU will provide logistical support, and fund
equipment and civil works for UWA to implement elements of that strategic plan. With these fimds UWA
will implement the Protected Areas System Plan to rationalize and demarcate the boundaries of the national
asset. The project supports the cost-effective management of these assets at the field level through
logistical support, equipment and modest targeted civil works for the Parks and Reserves. Civil works will
target staff accommodations in order to improve moral, effectiveness and reduce rent as burden on ovemll
agency operating costs. At headquarters, the project will provide operating support and equipment for
ongoing operations and refurbish the existing headquarters building in order to save rent costs.
The GEF share of this component reflects the incremental cost of establishing and administering a protected
area system that contributes to protection of global biodiversity but is larger than economically justified in
the face of competing land uses and the basic needs of a large and relatively poor rural population.
Financial sustainability of this higher central Govemment commitment may be built up over the project
period through reform of park entrance and other user fees. The GEF funding is focused on field
operations because of the additional level of effort required to maintain a PA system that ensures a
comprehensive conservation and sustainable use of a fillly representative set of Uganda's biodiversity.
This effort is focused on maintaining infrastructure, supporting surveillance and monitoring, and providing
ongoing training in remote but biological important areas typically not benefiting sufficiently from
ecotourism.
Protected Areas System Plan (PASP)
UWA, with support from the EU, and the ICB-PAMSU Project, initiated a process of assessing the current
status of the PA system with the aim of rationalizing it. The rationalization process involved revising and
re-aligning the PA system to ensure that it (i) protects a high-quality, representative sample of the country's
biodiversity heritage and ecosystems, (ii) is manageable in the long term, and (iii) provides a suitable basis
for a sustainable tourism sector. The assessment process took about 24 months; it included
ecological/biodiversity, economic and social criteria and involved participation of national and local
governments and potentially affected communities.
The GEF is called upon to support this activity in its implementation phase, to ensure inclusion of areas of
globally significant biodiversity. Before the assessment was undertaken, comprehensive knowledge of the
coverage of Uganda's protected areas and the nation's biodiversity represented in those areas (i.e.degree of
replication, inclusion of all major ecosystem types, etc.) was not known. The PASP includes definition of
appropriate boundaries, resolution of disputes outstanding and arising from the process, and identification
of areas for pilot community conservation activities. Implementation of the plan is identified as part of an
expensive process of "capitalization" of the change towards an improved PA system in Uganda. Because
of Uganda's commitments under the Biodiversity Convention, this is a much more comprehensive effort
than would be warranted to meet Uganda's more limited objectives of maintaining only the most affordable
of the existing PAs.
Resettlement
During the course of the development of the PASP, substantial community consultation and redrawing of
boundaries enabled the new proposed PASP to avoid significant issues of resettlement in 22 of the 25
protected areas. However three potential significant issues remain in Mt. Elgon National Park, Katonga
Game Reserve, and Pian Upe Wildlife Reserve.
- 10-



The World Bank and GOU have already engaged in discussions relating to establishing national protocols
and policies that wiU ensure compliance with the Bank's Safeguard policies across all sectors. These
discussions involve multi-sector consultations and are being driven by the need to comply with World Bank
Safeguard policies in connection with the PRSC Program; this program provides direct budgetary support
to Uganda. The urgency of addressing the identified resettlement issues inside protected aras is a further
indication of the need for national commitment to these safeguards.
The project wil provide funds to engage a team of consultants to review and design appropriate plans to
address the specific issues of people resident in the protected areas, or using the protected area resources.
This activity wil be limited to the design of options for addressing the specific issues, all options will be
fully consistent with the World Bank Safeguard policies. The imnplementation of the plans will not be part
of the PAMSU project, but rather, will be financed separately.
Component 2: Environmental Conservation Education
Agency: Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
UWEC's activities will create public awareness and knowledge about Uganda's wildlife as well as broader
environmental and conservation issues. The project will provide logistical support, some equipment and
construction funds for establishing new programs for visitor education especially school children. UWEC
will reach out to school children around Uganda by funding both day time visits for nearby schools and an
overnight residency program for children living more distant New exhibits construction and maintenance
highlighting Ugandan wildlife will be funded by the project to increase the range of educational messages of
interest. Support wiUl also be provided for improved animal holding and veterinary facilities for both the
needs of UWEC and the Wildlife Department
Under ICB-PAMSU the GEF heavily supported the UWEC activities. Under this component, GEF
resources would continue to support conservation education awareness programs. The high proportion of
GEF assistance to this component recognizes that, in- the very long term, better public awareness of
Uganda's unique national biological heritage and the economic benefits of biodiversity conservation wil
build support and wiUingness to pay for conservation of these resources in the face of competing land-use
and other development pressures.
Component 3: Tourism Framework
Agency: Ministry of Tourism. Trade and Industry
MTH'ls mission and efforts within the project focus upon developing the tourism sector of the economy to
the maximum extent possible, consistent with the protection of environmental and cultural values. The
project will provide funding for logistics and equipment that will (1) establish a sustainable tourism
framework based on policy development and enabling legislation; (2) provide for licensing and registration
of operators within the sector to ensure quality; (3) develop accurate statistics on the sector; and (4)
facilitate the improvement in human resource training. In addition to funding these activities the project
will provide substantial funds for construction of a building for the MTTI.
Under this component, support will also be provided for the Wildlife Department in the MTII. This
support includes training, equipment, management support and technical capacity building to enable the
Wildlife Department to carry out Uganda's responsibilities under relevant international treaties, and in
particular to function effectively as the Management Authority for the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES).



Component 4: Cultural Heritage
Agency: Department ofAntiquities and Museums
The project provides moderate operational funds, some equipment and civil works to continue the
establishment of UMMA. These funds will finaize the former Department's transition to a sustainable
semi-autonomous agency and facilitate expansion of the offerings at the Museum and the identification and
development of remote antiquarian sites of significant importance to Uganda's cultural heritage.
Project Coordination
Agency: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
The Project Coordination Unit which was established under ICB-PAMSU will continue to function as the
PCU for the implementation of PAMSU project for two and a half years. The role of the PCU will be to
build the capacity of the implementing agencies to take over the responsibility for project managetnent
including procurement and reporting.
Indicative         Bank     % of    GEF      % of
Component              Sector       Costs    % ot   financing  Bank  financtng  GEF
._________________________        (USSM)   Total   (USSM)  financing  (USSM) financlng.
Sustainable Wildlife      Enviromnental      30.60     80.5  23.90      88.5    4.10    51.3
Management                Institutions
Enviromnental Conservation  Enviromnental     4.00     10.5   0.00       0.0    3.90    48.8
Education                Institutions
Tourism Framework         Environmental       1.70      4.5   1.60       5.9    0.00     0.0
Institutions
Cultural Heritage         Enviromnental       0.80      2.1   0.70       2.6    0.00     0.0
Institutions
Project Coordination Unit  Environmental      0.90      2.4   0.80       3.0    0.00     0.0
Institutions                     I_                         I
Total ProJect Costs                  38.00    100.0  27.00     100.0    8.00   100.0
0.00      0.0   0.00       0.0    0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                  38.00    100.0  27.00     100.0    8.00   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Since the mid 1990s, the government has been pursuing refonm of the tourism and wildlife sector.
PAMSU, building on ICB-PAMSU, is designed to consolidate the reforms that have already taken place
and to support the completion of those that are in progress. The key changes are as follows:
*   A new wildlife policy in November 1995 led to the enactment of the Uganda Wildlife Statute 1996.
This formed the Uganda Wildlife Authority, a semi autonomous body from the merger of Uganda
National Parks and the Game Departnent. UWA was slow to take advantage of the new
anrangements, but has benefited from investments made since January 1999. It now faces challenges of
financial sustainability given lower than hoped for growth in its tourism revenue. PAMSU will support
reforms seeking cost efficiency and the implementation of its strategic plan developed in 2000.
* At the same time a new small Wildlife Department was formed in the Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife
and Antiquities vith responsibility for coordinating policy development and implementation and
Uganda's adherence to intemational wildlife treaties. Development of the WD under ICB-PAMSU
-12 -



was constrained by vacancies in the staffing of the WD. These have now been filled and PAMSU
supports further WD development
* A review of tourism policy is being undertaken with support from the European Commission. PAMSU
will support the development and enactment of any necessary enabling legislation.
* In 1994 the moribund Entebbe Zoo was transformed into the Uganda Wildlife Education Centre, a
trust. UWEC no longer functions as a zoo, but rather as the countries institution for conservation
education. It is now an important resource for wildlife and conservation education. PAMSU supports
its further development and will establish a franework for raising an endowment to meet its financing
gap.
*   A number of refonns of tourism sector institutions have taken place since 1996. These include the
establishment and development of the Uganda Tourist Board as an autonomous agency. ICB-PAMSU
supported these, but PAMSU does not because either the reforns have been completed, or support is
being provided under the EC financed project. PAMSU does support further reformns building the
MTTI's supervisory and regulatory function.
The Department of Antiquities and Museums responsible for museums, cultural sites and antiquities, is
currently being transformed into the Uganda Museums and Monuments Agency. PAMSU provides modest
support for operating costs while the new agency is established.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project are two fold: (1) the improved conservation and management of the
protected area estate in Uganda; and (2) institutional and policy reform which will contribute to the
establishment of an enabling environment for greater investment in the tourism sector.
The global benefits of this project lie in the inherent value of ecosystems in Uganda to world-wide
biological diversity. There may also be regional benefits to maintaining the integrity of PAs along the
borders with Rwanda and the DR Congo because they are contiguous with PAs in those countries. This
may be a very valuable collective asset in the future when regional politics allow better cooperation. At a
national level this project's development objectives directly target stakeholders involved with the public and
private sectors in the conservation, management and growth of wildlife and tourism assets and indirectly
much of civil society through education and awareness building about sector issues.
These target groups and the benefits that will accrue are:
* Central Government agencies involved with regulation, planning and monitoring macro development
within the sector. These will benefit through increased capacity and training, greater employment
security and satisfaction, and, increased ownership and pride in the sector.
* Government agencies involved with the implementation of strategic objectives defined by policy and
planning. These will benefit from the project through increased capacity and training, improved
employment security and tenns, increased job satisfaction and improved intemally generated revenues
allowing greater autonomy.
* Local Government officers responsible for sector coordination and policy dissemination and
implementation will benefit from participation in capacity building and training programs.
-13 -



* Communities living in and around protected areas and other natural and cultunal resources will benefit
from greater exposure to income generation opportunities, particularly for women's groups who can
sell crafts and cultural experiences, education opportunities, improved infrastructure, improved
advocacy in local decision making processes (which will be facilitated by the policy and legislation
review), increased access to resources from NGOs and CBOs who are development partners
encouraged by this project.
*   The private sector involved with the promotion and sale of natural and cultural assets will benefit from
greater commercial opportunities, access to taining and enhanced advocacy through the policy and
legislation review process.
4. Insttutional and implementation arrangements:
Policy, Institutional and Legislative Frameworkfor Project Implementation
PAMSU operates within the legislative framework established by the Uganda Wildlife Statute 1996 and
supports the development of enabling legislation following revision of the tourism policy currently in
progress.
Implementation will be the responsibility of 4 main implementing agencies, one for each component:
Uganda Wildlife Authority, Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry, Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
and Department of Antiquities and Museums.
Uganda Wildlife Authority
Uganda Wildlife Authority was established in 1996 with the mandate of ensuring the sustainable
management of wildlife conservation areas; and establishing policies and procedures to manage and
regulate the use of wildlife outside protected areas. UWA is responsible for 10 National Parks, 13 Wildlife
Reserves and technical oversight of 5 Community Wildlife Areas.
UWA is under the general supervision of the Minister of Tourism, Trade and Industry. The governing
body is the Board of Trustees appointed by the Minister in accordance with the Schedule to the Uganda
Wildlife Statute. ICB-PAMSU supported board development through preparation of formal TORs which
have been adopted by the ministry and a procedures manual to guide Board work. This work resulted in
recommendations to reforn the composition of the board to make it more appropriate to its TORs. This
required an amendment to the Schedule to the Statute which has been approved by Cabinet. The term of
the present Board has expired and it is expected that a new Board will be in place by project
commencement
ICB-PAMSU supported a number of measures to strengthen the institutional capacity of UWA. These
included: the appointment of an internationally recruited Executive Director on a three year contract to
oversee UWA's development; the provision of an institutional contractor to develop financial management
systems; the development of a training plan and the development of a strategic plan.
Under the USAID supported Action Plan for the Environment project, UWA has been developing capacity
for protected area systems planning and is currently improving its ability to prepare, implement and
monitor annual operations plans at HQ and field level.
- 14 -



Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
The Uganda Wildlife Education Centre is legally established as a Trust with a 9 member Board appointed
by the Minister, and registered in Uganda.
UWEC has been successful at attracting a number of private sector donors. These donations are generally
restricted to the development of new exhibits rather than running costs, which have been met by GOU
subvention, self-generated funds (mostly admission fees) and ICB-PAMSU.
Until 2000, UWEC had an expatriate Director funded by USAID. He is now acting as a technical advisor.
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
Three Departments, all falling under the Commission of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities are supported
by the project These are: Tourism Development, Registration and Licensing, and Wildlife.
Department ofAntiquities and Museums
A decision to transform the Department of Antiquities and Museums into a semi-autonomous agency was
taken by the Ministry of Public Services in July 2001 (after several years of discussion as to whether to
transform it into an autonomous authority by act of Parliament). The GOU has engaged consultants to
assist in the transformation, including the preparation of strategic and business plans. DAM will be seen
by a representative 8 member advisory board and managed by a chief executive.
PCU
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTTI has been responsible for coordination and oversight of
ICB-PAMSU and for the preparation of PAMSU. Its responsibilities include donor liaison, program
identification, procurement of goods and services and contract management. Under the PAMSU project,
the PCU will continue for two and a half years playing more of a supporting role to the Implementing
Agencies which will eventually take full responsibility for procurement and project implementation.
The intention is to move from a model where the PCU is responsible for disbursement and procurement of
IDA/GEF funds to a support and! capacity building role. The PCU team will provide guidance and support
to the implementing agencies, while the agencies will be responsible for preparing the necessary
documentation (i.e. terms of reference, requests for no objection, withdrawal applications, annual work
plan submissions and any reporting requirements). The new implementation arrangements for PAMSU
include establishing separate special accounts for each implementing agency. UWA and UWEC will
manage their own special accounts from the inception of the project The DAM and MTT] components
will be managed under special accounts for which the PCU will be responsible for the first two and a half
years. Once the PCU has been phased out the Ministry will take responsibility for implementation.
The project will support TA, equipment and other operating costs for the PCU. Under the TA category, the
project will support the positions of Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant.
Support staff include two secretaries, five drivers, an accounts assistant, and an office attendant. The PCU
will assume responsibility for all'MITI vehicles purchased under ICB-PAMSU, including their
registration, logbooks, and maintenance. Vehicle operations for MMTI activities will be funded from the
activity budgets.
-15 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives considered during design were as follows:
*   Not following ICB-PAMSU with a further project. The rationale for this would have been that
institutional reform, particularly of UWA has been disappointing, and the potential for developing
tourism is proving to be less strong than expected. This approach would have been consistent with
IDA strategy for Uganda of moving to budgetary support Reasonsfor rejection: While institutional
reform has been slower than might have been hoped, it is appreciated that the three years of
ICB-PAMSU are not sufficient to consolidate the gains that have been made and a further period is
appropriate. The Government of Uganda remains committed to the development of tourism and is
directly addressing security concerns in tourism areas. Not continuing with project support would have
left several institutions exposed at an awkward stage of transition and undernined the investments
made to date.
*   Varying funding levels. At the beginning of project design, a number of beneficiary institutions were
hoping for a total project budget of around US$80 million. This figure derived in part from an exercise
carried out in eariy 1996 that identified all the potential investments that might be made in Uganda's
wildlife sector. This was never a concrete proposal. Reasonsfor rejection: Apart from the fact that
such a total would have far exceeded available IDA resources, an investment on that scale would have
exceeded capacity for implementation and led to a wholly unsustainable level of recurrent cost
commitmnents and other operational costs.
*   Endowment based funding for UWEC. Consideration was given to providing an endowment of
approximately $4 million to meet operating costs of UWEC. UWEC has become an effective, well run
organization that serves a clear conservation education mandate. It has an established record of
implementing programs in a highly cost effective manner. It meets a number of criteria normally used
for endowment funding: it is an established organization with effective governance structures and it has
support from a number of other donors. Reasonsfor rejection: A number of investments are still
needed to improve UWEC's own income generating potential and priority was given to these. No other
body has yet made a commitment to provide counterpart funding for an endowment. Nevertheless, the
idea still merits attention. PAMSU will provide for a study to establish the legal and institutional
framework for an endowment in anticipation that one will be established at a later date.
* Endowment funding for UWA. Earlier hopes that UWA would be able to generate sufficient revenue
to meet the gap between operational requirements and GOU subventions were probably never realistic
but it is now quite clear that there will be a substantial gap for the foreseeable future. Given the
importance of Uganda's biodiversity this suggests an endowment would be appropriate. Reasonsfor
rejection: Several strong reasons ruled this alternative out. UWA has had a checkered history since
fonnation. Until, as an absolute minimum, the new Board of Trustees is in place providing effective
governance and the succession of the interim Executive Director has taken place satisfactorily, UWA
cannot be said to be sufficiently stable to support in this manner. UWA is not yet sufficiently cost
conscious and too great a proportion of operating costs is absorbed by headquarters. A number of
strategic questions involving outsourcing still needs to be resolved. There is a substantial risk that an
endowment at this stage will simply relieve the pressure to make the necessary reforms.
- 16 -



* Direct support to protected areas. Consideration was given to providing support more directly to a
number of key protected areas. This model has been used in the Murchison Falls National Park. This
would circumvent the high proportion of costs absorbed by HQ. Reasons for rejection: There is a
substantial number of operational policies that need to be resolved at HQ level. The mismatch between
biodiversity importance and revenue generating potential of the various PAs suggests that a national
approach is needed. All PAs need HQ support for planning and monitoring functions. UWA is
strongly antipathetic to this approach.
* Additional support for tourism within UWA. Given the need for UWA to expand its revenue base
and the relative weakness of its efforts to develop and diversify its tourism base consideration was
given to providing technical assistance to the relatively new tourism department and to providing
support for promotion. Reasons for rejection: Promotion of Uganda's tourism is the responsibility of
the Uganda Tourism Board which is benefiting from EC funding. PAMSU was designed to avoid
duplication in this regard. There is a number of strategic issues regarding the way tourism is managed
in UWA including the extent to which it is appropriate to develop capacity in house as opposed to
outsourcing it. Until these are resolved, technical assistance (beyond supporting development of
strategy) is inappropriate.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
L atest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
ImplementbUon  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (JP)  Objective (Do)
Wildlife and Tourism              Institutional Capacity Building   S            S
for Protected Area Management
and Sustainable Use                       _
Other development agencies
European Union - Tourism and Wildlife Uganda Sustainable Tourism
Development Project                      _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactbry), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory). HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from ICB-PAMSU
ICB-PAMSU was intended to provide sufficient institutional capacity for implementing PAMSU.
Experience with capacity building under ICB-PAMSU suggests implementing agencies have not yet
developed the capacity necessary to effectively absorb a substantial investment program. This was in part
a result of the relatively short timefrarile allowed. Although PAMSU makes limited new initiatives in
capacity building, it anticipates that the implementing organizations will continue to put effort into
developing capacity and adapting their plans to current circumstances.
Much of the 'strategic' planning undertaken in ICB-PAMSU has taken the implementing organizations
further from, rather than closer to financial sustainability. In part, this is a consequence of lhe
circumstances under which the plans were prepared - as conditionalities for a follow-on investment project.
The plans prepared have focused on operational efficiency more than on strategic issues. Genuinely
- 17 -



strategic decisions have not resulted from the participatory processes used to prepare the plans. As an
example, one of the more successful inputs to UWA was the contracting out of the financial management
fimction. This was decided on as part of ICB-PAMSU design. This kind of decision needs to be taken at
the most senior level in the face of extemal pressure. PAMSU places limited emphasis on the preparation
of further strategic plans - the principle exception being the 'business plan' proposed for UWA. Careful
consideration will be given to the process used to prepare this plan to avoid the pitfalls described. PAMSU
places emphasis on translating plans into operations, improving cost effectiveness, and monitoring
implementation.
Lessons from Bank projects in Kenya's tourism and wildlife sector
The experience with comparable Bank supported wildlife sector reforms in Kenya was drawn upon in the
formulation of ICB-PAMSU and is.still relevant The sector received assistance from the Bank under the
Wildlife and Tourism Project (1976-1986) and the "Protected Areas and Wildlife Service" (PAWS) Project
(1992-2000). The Implementation Completion Report and Project Audit attributed the failure of the earlier
project primarily to an inadequate policy framework, institutional failures and a lack of Government
commitment to the project's objectives, as well as to the Bank's failure to hold firm on the agreed
conditionalities. By contrast, the success of the PAWS project, which has had a major positive impact in
reducing commercial poaching and improving the infrastructure and management of Kenya's PAs,
demonstrates the benefits of ensuring that these issues are addressed up front At the same time, the slow
progress of the parastatal Kenya Wildlife Service in moving toward a business-like organizational culture
and financial sustainability holds important lessons for the Uganda Wildlife Authority which started from a
similar situation and is aiming for similar objectives. PAWS showed that a major investment in
infrastructure does place substantial demands on scarce management time and suggested that relatively
modest investments are more appropriate.
Other lessons from Bank tourism and wildlife projects
Other lessons from Bank-assisted projects and other experiences around the world include the importance
of building support for conservation at a political level and among communities adjacent to PAs, and the
need to encourage collaboration among institutions rather than building parallel capacity in each.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Uganda is committed to sustainable environmental management and the conservation of
biodiversity as expressed in the PEAP. Preparation for the PAMSU project began in 1995 through Bank
and GOU collaboration with funding provided through a PPF and by the GEF. The outcome of that
preparation was a proposal for a phased approach, the first phase being the ICB-PAMSU project, and the
next phase the PAMSU project During the implementation of the ICB-PAMSU project, GOU made
available all the counterpart fumds needed for the project implementation, including partial payment of the
salaries of UWA. The GOU has also allocated a special budget for security in the Protected Areas during
this financial year.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The World Bank has provided leadership and support for activities in the wildlife/tourism sector since the
1990's. The PAMSU project is a follow-on project from the ICB-PAMSU project which established the
institutional capacity and the policy framework for more effective protected area management and
nature-based and cultural tourism. Continued Bank support for the sector, through the PAMSU project,
will consolidate the achievements made so far, and support the policy and institutional reforms that have
- 18 -



been established over the past three years. Given the reduced state of the country's wildlife resources and
the persistent problems of insecurity, growth in tourism, and its ability to support conservation, is likely to
be slow. The conservation and improved management of Uganda's biological resources will only be
possible if the Bank and other donors provide the necessary support to protect the resource base in the short
term and to gradually restore and improve it in the longer term. As one the GEF implementing agencies,
the Bank can also access the GEF resources to support the conservation and management of globally
significant biodiversity.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Incremental Expenditures. The total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario is estimated to be US$22.0
million while the total expenditure under the GEF Alternative is estimated to be US$37.9 million. The
incremental expenditures under the GEF Alternative are therefore US$15.9 million. The majority of
expenditures (76%) is attributable to decentralized activities of UWA, while 24% is attributable to
enhanced conservation education efforts.
Incremental Costs. The incremental expenditures of US$15.9 million are partially offset by an incremental
domestic benefit of US$7.9 million. This benefit would not have been realized in the Baseline Scenario,
and is primarily associated with sustainable direct uses, distributional benefits, protection of ecological
functions, and preservation of domestically significant option values. The net result is that the incremental
cost of the GEF Alternative is US$8.0 million, for which GEF assistance is requested. The allocation of
these amounts, and the resultant financing structure for the GEF Alternative as a whole, is summarized in
Table Al.2.
Cost-effectiveness. While no complete monetization of the global benefits of a GEF intervention has been
completed, it is possible to provide some indication of its cost-effectiveness of such a GEF intervention. It
is estimated that the intervention translates to an annualized cost of US$144/km2/yr of effective protection;
this reflects the basic hypothesis that improved decentralized measures will ensure protection of a wider
range of species and habitats (approx. 1.3 million ha phased in over 30 years) than otherwise would be the
case. The literature indicates that typical conservation expenditures around the world reflect international
interventions corresponding to approximately US$20/km2/yr to US$2,000/kmn2/yr of protection. In the
case of Uganda, therefore, the substantial investmnents in the Baseline Scenario, which are targeted to meet
domestic development priorities, provide an opportunity for the international community to obtain high
efficiency for its conservation expenditures.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
In recent years, significant improvements in public sector accounting and reporting have been achieved.
Most notably, the annual public accounts of Government have been produced within the statutory period of
four months after the end of the financial year for each of the past four years. Nevertheless, recent
assessments undertaken by Government jointly with donors, such as the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) with IDA, have identified a number of areas that need to be strengthened to enhance
financial management.
- 19 -



The Country Financial Accountability Assessment carried out by IDA in collaboration with Government,
indicates that inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at the center and in the districts
pose a major fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a relatively good budgeting system, accounting for public
expenditure using the present manual system is weak, largely because of disregard for timely and regular
recording of transactions, side-stepping of controls, and lack of financial discipline. Similarly, findings of
audit reports are not regularly followed up, and public accounts contain a number of material
non-reconciled balances. There is an acute shortage of qualified accountants in the public sector because
the current pay levels are only about 20-30 percent of those in the private sector. Reforms in financial
management are urgent and satisfactory progress in their implementation needs to precede the approval of
PRSC II that will increasingly involve district and sub-county governments.
With the support of a number of donor assisted initiatives, such as the Second Economic and Financial
Management Project (EFMP II) and the Local Government Development Project (LGDP) supported by
IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support Project funded by DEID, Government
is seeking to rapidly enhance the financial accountability framework in pursuit of the following objectives:
* mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both taxpayers and donors;
* achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds;
* enhance transparency and accountability; and
*   establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector development and regulation.
As an initial measure, the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has expanded the
mandate of the coordinating mechanism in place for guiding and monitoring all reform programs in
financial management throughout Government using the existing structures under EFMP II.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry, Uganda Wildlife Authority, Uganda Wildlife Education Centre,
Department of Antiquities and Museums.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTTI has been responsible for coordination and oversight of
ICB-PAMSU and for the preparation of PAMSU. Its responsibilities include donor liaison, program
identification, procurement of goods and services and contract management Under the PAMSU project,
the PCU will continue for two and a half years playing more a supporting role to the Implementing
Agencies which will eventually take full responsibility for procurement and project implementation.
- 20 -



The intention is to move from a model where the PCU is responsible for disbursement and procurement of
IDA/GEF funds to a support and capacity building role. The PCU team will provide guidance and support
to the implementing agencies, while the agencies will be responsible for preparing the necessary
documentation (i.e. terms of reference, requests for no objection, withdrawal applications, annual work
plan submissions and any M&E reporting requirements). The new implementation arrangements for
PAMSU include establishing separate special accounts for each implementing agency. UWA and UWEC
will manage their own special accounts from the inception of the project The DAM and MTTT
components will be managed under special accounts for which the PCU will be responsible for the first two
and a half.years. Once the PCU has been phased out the Ministry will take responsibility for
implementation.
The project will support TA, equipment and other operating costs for the PCU. Under the TA category, the
project will support the positions of Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant.
Support staff will include two secretaries, five drivers, an accounts assistant, and an office attendant. The
PCU will assume responsibility forlall MTTI vehicles purchased under ICB-PAMSU, including their
registration, logbooks, and maintenance. Vehicle operations for MTTI activities will be funded from the
activity budgets.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Because of the limited procurement capacity in the implementing agencies, for the first one and a half years
of the project, the procurement officer in the PCU for the closed ICB-PAMSU will be contracted under
PAMSU to (a) guide and supervise the implementing agencies in all aspects of procurement
implementation, (b) train relevant staff of the agencies in Bank procurement procedures, (c) assist them in
the timely production of agreed procurement reports, and (d) set up good procurement records and
monitoring systems. The Bank will, as part of its project supervision, assess periodically the progress of
the capacity building in the implementing agencies and will share its findings and recommendations with the
management of the agencies.
UWA has no in-house capacity to effectively supervise the works activities. To assist UWA in the
supervision, coordination and monitoring of the works activities (i.e. demarcation of park boundaries,
construction of rangers' houses, outposts in the parks, office blocks, and rehabilitation of roads in the
parks), UWA will deploy qualified personnel for a specified period.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management and Auditing. The Finance departments of the implementing agencies will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the project are acceptable
to the World Bank and Govemment of Uganda.
T'he financial management systems in the PCU, UWA and UWEC support management in their deployment
of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of
outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the systems are capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that enables management to plan, implement,
monitor and appraise the project's'overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
Details of the current financial management arrangements are included in Appendix 5 to the PAD. These
indicate that the financial management arrangements in the implementing agencies satisfy the Bank's
minimum requirements under OP/BP1O.02. The arrangements for UWA and the PCU will enable them to
adopt the report-based disbursement method, while UWEC have to implement improvements in their
- 21 -



financial management system to enable them to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the Project as required by the IDA for report-based disbursements. The
arrangements currently in place in respect of UWEC do not yet fully satisfy the requirements for
FMR-based disbursement, as outlined in the World Bank's guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports.
The actions required to be undertaken by the project, the completion of which will allow its implementing
agencies to be strengthened or to qualify for the IDA credit to be disbursed on the basis of FMRs, are set
out in Annex 5 and in the Financial Management Assessment Report.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social development outcomes of the project relate to the conservation and environmental services which
will be secured for the populations living near the protected areas. The vast majority of Uganda's
population is rural and therefore dependent on natural resources for their livelihoods. The conservation
objective of the project will provide benefits to the local populations in two ways: (i) secure the
environmental services provided by intact and well functioning ecosystems, e.g. clean and dependable
water, medicinal plants, etc; and (ii) conservation and rehabilitation of the protected areas system and the
nature-based/cultural heritage tourism industry will provide local communities opportunities for
involvement in small scale tourism operations when the industry recovers.
Another important social development outcome of the project is awareness raising. Through continued
support to the UWEC, the project will promote better appreciation and understanding of the importance of
strong environmental management and conservation.
The implementation of the Protected Areas System Plan will also have a positive impact on the
communities living in and around protected areas. The objective of the rationalization of the protected
areas system are two-fold: to ensure that a representative sample of each of the country unique ecosystems
are gazetted and conserved; reduce the conflicts between the parks authority and local communities over
- 22 -



boundaries and resource use. Through the implementation of the Protected Areas System Plan, the project
aims to establish the Parliamentary approved and agreed boundaries for the protected areas estate. This
process will clearly mark all protected areas boundaries as well as the redesignation of certain highly
encroached areas in protected areas to allow for legitimate resource utilization by the population living in
the areas.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project preparation included activities aimed at rationalizing the protected areas estate in Uganda. The
design for the new system was developed through a highly participatory process involving all the
stakeholders from the national, district and local level.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project is working directly to support one of Uganda's main conservation NGO, the Uganda Wildlife
Education Centre (UWEC). Other national and international NGO's are also partners in the conservation
effort. For example, through regional, and park or species specific programs, Uganda Wildlife Authority
is collaborating with NGO's such as the International Gorilla Conservation Program in Bwindi and
Mgahinga National Parks, IUCN and WWF in the Mt. Elgon and Rwenzori National Parks, and AWF for
development of training plans. The project also supports a collaborative management component for
working directly with communities to include them in the decision making process for park management.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Direct support is being provided to:UWEC as the main NGO working on conservation education. A
department for community conservation has been established in UWA and the pilot programs for
collaborative management will be funded under the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be monitored as a regular part of the project supervision process.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03).                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
-23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to ensure sustainability of the institutions developed under ICB-PAMSU by
providing modest operating finances to continue operations and to implement plans designed. The result of
this strategy will be a more cost-effective and sustainable management of Uganda's wildlife resource; one
able to prioritize management of the existing PA system, operate that system efficiently and take full
advantage of any tourism growth that might emerge from promotion of Uganda's wildlife heritage. The
project promotes sustainability in three ways:
1. Designed to ensure institutional sustainability: The GOU has established UWA, UWEC, and soon
UMMA as semi-autonomous agencies in order to reduce their dependence on government subventions
and thereby promote their financial sustainabiity. ICB-PAMSU provided funding for the initial steps
required by these organizations: institutional "culture" change, strategic and business planning, and
development of appropriate management systems and staff with the skills and incentives to inplement
them. PAMSU, by assisting these institutions to institutionalize and solidify gains made under the
previous project will contribute directly to their sustainability.
2. Designed to move towards financial sustainability: A new macro-economic operating environment
has emerged since the design, in 1996, of PAMSU; tourism return has been and is likely to be slower
than anticipated while, though the government's overall economic condition has improved, its financial
allocations are attuned to protection of national boundaries and economic growth. The insfitutions
included within PAMSU must realign their strategic objectives, focusing upon cost-effective
management of resources and sustainable investment strategies. The project is designed to encourage
continued development of tourism opportunities, policy and infrastrucure as a necessary condition for
tourism-supported growth.
At the same time it recognizes that this process may be long and the period prior to substantial tourist
return may be one of limited resources. The UWA will be encouraged, though with minimal and
focused funding, to develop the most cost effective strategies for sustainable fulfilling its role as the
manager of the wildlife resource. Key to this effort is a yearly monitoring mission tasked to support
the management to achieve its objectives in developing and implementing cost effective strategies.
3. Designed to support environmental sustainab3lity: The future of PAs and wildlife resources and of
the tourism industry are inter-dependent, as the PAs and wildlife provide the main basis for tourism.
As the guardian of Uganda's natural and wildlife heritage, UWA must sustain the wildlife resources as
a necessary condition for any recovery of tourism. Ensuring effective management of these resources
is essential to achieve both conservation and economic growth objectives. -The project will also
contribute to long-term sustainability by supporting an ongoing process of assessment and
rationalization of the existing PA system, aimed at increasing operational efficiency and reducing costs.
Under ICB-PAMSU, the management of some adjacent Parks and Reserves has been consolidated into
Zone management systems for both ecological and cost-saving reasons. PAMSU funding is necessary
to continue the initiative and to consider how existing wildlife resources might most effectively be
managed.
- 24 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Rlsk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Security. Publicized events (the Bwindi     S        The GOU has allocated funds for improving
massacre, the Ebola outbreak, and most               security in the National Parks. However, all
recently the shootings in Murchison Falls            publicized incursions whether rebuked or not
NP) have negatively impacted tourist                 negatively irnpact the sector. With respect to
travel to Uganda. The USA and UK                     tourism potential, this risk rerains.
govermments recently advised citizens not
to travel to the Country. For tourists to            The project focuses on cost-effective
return, violence and terrorist events must           sustainability of the institutions rather than
decrease in frequency and severity and               revenue generation as a means of reducing the
stay low for a period of time.                       risk of security incidents to the viability of the
institutions.
Competition. There is a risk that,          S        The risk limits likely tourist revenue. The
comparatively, Uganda will never become              project addresses this in two ways: (1) by
an attractive tourist destination. The               developing accurate statistics it will inform
wildlife and the infrastructure present in           decision makers (politicians, bureaucrats, and
the 50s and 60s when it was among the                private sector) about realistic prospects for
premier destinations of Africa will take             tourist based economic development; and (2) by
decades to return. During that time                  focusing on cost effectiveness it intends to
market leaders - Kenya and South Africa -            develop management strategies that can work
are likely to solidify their positions, and          with a limited financial resource.
new entrants - eg. Zambia, Zimbabwe,
and Namibia - are likely to increase
competition.
Weak private sector. There is a risk that   N        The project includes a component of provider
relatively weak private sector service               registration and licensing. There is evidence
providers will be unable to provide                  that normal market forces are at work and
appropriate services and that these will             service quality is improving within niches of the
discourage return of those who do come.              market with adequate return.
From Components to Outputs
Institutional strength developed under      S        The project is designed to provide sufficient
ICB-PAMSU remains fragile.                           coverage of operating costs and ongoing activity
funding to allow developments under
ICB-PAMSU to be institutionalized.
The external review and monitoring mission
proposed for UWA should help protect and
build on gains.
Institutional structure and cooperation.   M         Institutional structure and cooperation: Roles
Roles and duties of the institutions within          and duties of the institutions within the sector
the sector have not been entirely                    have not been entirely rationalized.
rationalized. ICB-PAMSU suffered from                ICB-PAMSU suffered from a lack of
- 25 -



lack of coordination and attempts by                 coordination and attempts by institutions to
institutions to expand their role.                   expand their role. Duplication of roles increases
Duplication of roles increases costs and             costs and hinders sustainability
hinders sustainability.
Budgetary constraints of GOU. The GOU      M         PAMSU will focus upon improving
may be unable to meet its funding                    cost-effectiveness in all agencies as means to
obligations within PAMSU causing costs               operate within very limited budgets.
to rise and the project to conclude early.
Limited Infiastructure Development may      S        The project funds limited infrastructure
prolong decline in wildlife resources                development in line with the goal of
cost-effectiveness. Critical levels necessary for
making Uganda an attractive tourist destination
is unknown, but the project's limited
contribution is clearly insufficient
UWA specific risks: The UWA                 S          The business planning exercise will address
bureaucracy has grown in anticipation of             these issues.
the larger PAMSU and with a focus upon
revenue growth. In retrospect these were
inappropriate strategies.
The BoT of UWA remains large,    A new Board Structure has been approved and a
The BoT of UWA remains large,                        new Board will be appointed before project
politically motivated, and problematic;              commencement
capturing significant time and energy of
the ED and failing to provide an
appropriate management framework for
UWA management staff.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Credit/Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and UWA;
(b)    All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement have been
fulfilled;
(c)    The Borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting system for the
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)    The Borrower has employed the independent auditors;
(e)    The Borrower has furnished to the Association the PIP including a financial management plan, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
- 26 -



(f)    The Borrower has established a management infornation system, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)    The Borrower and UWA have each appointed, for Project implementation, the Financial Manager
and Accountant;
(h)    The Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the Initial Deposit;
(i)    The Borrower and UWA have each established the procurement unit and appointed thereto staff
having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
(1)    The Borrower has renewed contracts of the Project Coordination Unit staff of the Institutional
Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Ol 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Nathalie Weier Jo  o             Richard G. Scobe                  udy M. O'Connor
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Country Director
-27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Key Perfornance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectlves        Indicators                                  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reducing poverty and     Tourism investment and  Foreign investment statistics Security in the region will
generating wealth, foreign  tourism related revenue                      improve and awareness and
earnings, employment, and  increased                                      appreciation of the natural
public awareness within the                                               assets will increase
international community of Visitation to protected areas Entrance statistics
the wildlife and cultural  and culturl sites increased
attributes of Uganda
GEF Operational Program:
Arid and Semi-arid       Poaching of key species is  Monitoring reports from  Government maintains
Ecosystems, Mountain    reduced                  Uganda Wildlife Authority  commitment to principle of
Ecosystems, and Forest                                                    Biodiversity Convention
Ecosystems
Promoting in-situ        Population numbers of key  Aerial surveys
conservation by relying on  mammal species in 3 most
better management and   important national parks
involvement of communities increases
Project Development      Outcome I Impact        Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Sustainable and          1. Revenue generation at  1. Financial records   Uganda will be unable to
cost-effective management  UWA increases to UShs                          close the lead held by
of Uganda's wildlife and  6.Obn by the 5th year                           existing African tourists
culturl resources                                                         destinations and face
2. Poaching of key species 2. Annual Review reports, competition from emerging
in patrol area reduced from  field visit         tourist markets
initial baseline
3. Population number of  3. Patrol pattems w/ aerial
key mammal species in QE, survey
MF, KV conservation areas
increase by 5% within 5
years
4. Community satisfied   4. Assess communities in
with UWA response to    target areas (QE, KNP)
problem animals
5. Approx 120,000        5. Gate records
visitors/year including
80,000 students to UWEC
- 28 -



6. MoE adopts Wildlife  6. Review of curriculum
Conservation Education
(WCE) into primary school
education in Uganda by
EOP
7. 40% of primary schools 7. MoE, UWEC records
receive WCE material by
EOP
8. Accurate and reliable  8. Review Dbase; USTDP
information (statistics,  (EU) data
market analysis, etc) about
Uganda's tourist potential is
established by EOP
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Uganda Wildlife          1. All NP and WR have   1. Site visits, PA records  Insecurity events must
Authirity: Maintain     boundaries marked and all                        decrease in frequency and
cost-effective and efficient. genuine land titles identified             severity
wildlife mgt. inside &  are compensated by EOP
outside Protected Areas
2. CM piloted in at least 2  2. Annual Review reports
CWAs; 10 resource       in relevant year
programs; and 3 wildlife
utilization schemes running
by EOP
3. Management plans     3. Annual Review Reports
developed and under
implementation for NP and
WR by BoP + 3yrs
4. AOP developed and    4. Annual Review Reports
implemented every year
within each PA
5. Cost-structure criteria  5. Annual Review Reports
of PA completed and
accepted by YR1; evidence
of PA management
according to criteria by EO
.YR2'
6. At least 1 conservation  6. Annual Review Reports
supported project each for
another 5 PA initiated by
-29 -



end of 5 years
7. Tourism concession   7. Financial system
revenue improves 50% over
baseline 2000/2001 then to
grow 10% yearly
8. Tourism# and revenue  8. Financial reports
of Ugandan nationals
increases over 2000/2001
baseline
9. Gate revenue increases  9. Financial reports
50% over 2000/2001 stats
by EO lyr and increases
5% (real tems) per year
after that
10. Revenue sharing     10. Financial reports
scheme implemented in each
revenue generating PA by 2
nd yr
11. By end of 2nd year no  11. Review staff files and
staff retained with three  HR reports
consecutive warnings of
non-performance.
12. A annual review of the  12. Annual review report.
contribution of operational
initiatives to UWA strategic
objectives.
13, New cost-effective  13. Annual Review report
management criteria/
strategies (eg. Hdqtr/Field
cost ratio; RoA, Cost
Margins, etc.) devised and
adopted over 5 years
Uganda Wildlife          1. Wildlife Conservation  1. Review of Curriculum,
Education Centre: Public  Education (WCE)        materials and MoE records
awareness and knowledge in curriculum and materials
environmental and       developed with MoE by Yr
conservation issues created. 2 and integrated into
Primary education
2. School child residential  2. Receipts and records of
education program       program
- 30 -



completed and operational
by Yr 3
3. Three major exhibits  3. Observation
(Rhino, Kidepo and Lake
Mburo eco zone) and 5
minor exhibits completed by
EO Yr 4
4. Second Chimpanzee    4. Observation
rehabilitation site
established and populated
5. Funding from new     5. UWEC financials
sources increases over 5
years
6. Partnerships with    6. Review ofjoint
agencies (NEMA) and     programs
donor program established
UMinistry of Tourism    1. Tourism Policy adopted  1. Document review    Insecurity  events  must
Trade and Industry:     and enabling legislation                         decrease in frequency and
])evelop the framework for enacted by EO 3yr                             severity.
ihe tourism sector of the
oconomy to the maximum  2. Reliable and valid    2. EU advisor and MoF   Reasonable improvements
extent possible, consistent  statistics on tourism                      in private sector
with the protection of
onvironmental and cultural 3. Licensing and      3. MTTI records review
Walues                  registration of all major  and UTA
service providers by Yr 3
4. Higher quality graduates 4. Employer review
from tourism training
institutes
5. Compilation of statistics 5. Records of attendance
and obligatory presentation
of those to treaty conference
]Department of Antiquities 1. At least two important  1. Site inspection
,md Museums: The        antiquarian sites outside of
Cultural heritage of Uganda Kampala developed for
preserved               visitation
2. Continued growth of  2. Museum Records
visitation over baseline
establish post-renovation
- 31 -



Project Coordination     1. Decrease in # of action  1. TM supervision reports
Unit: Effective and     items returned from TM due
proactive management of  to inadequacy
project
2. All monitoring missions 2. TM supervision reports
adequately prepared;
Quarterly reports to TM.
within 2 weeks of quarter
close
3. # of complaints from  3. Interviews and TM
project IA's decreases over supervision
5 years
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
Uganda Wildlife Authority US$30.60                                       PAS Plan approved by
Parliament within 2 years
Implementation of the
Protected Area Systems
Plan
Cost Effective management
of the park/assets within the
PA
Effective management of
UWA
Monitoring of project
impact and implementation
Uganda Wildlife         US$4.00
Education Centre
Education programs
developed and delivered
Animals maintained and
rehabilitated
Effective Management of
UWEC
Ministry of Tourism,    US$1.70                                          USTDP (EU) implemented
Trade and Industry                                                       effectively
Establish and maintain of
an operational tourism
- 32 -



database
Regulate tourist industry
service providers
Ratify tourism policy into
legislation and disseminate
Standardize and improve
tourism training (eg. private
sector training institutes;
HTTI)
Comply with Uganda's
obligation under CITES,
Lusaka, CMS
Department of Antiquities US$0.80
and Museums
Identify and sustainably
develop antiquarian sites
outside of Kampala
Institutionalize DAM as a
sustainable independent
Agency
Project Coordination Unit US$0.90
Review and improve new
terms of reference,
rationalizing and clarify
staff roles
Clarify roles between PCU
and IA's
Prepare quarterly and
unique reports
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$30.60 million
GEF (US$4.1 million)
Component 1: Sustainable Wildlife Management
Agency: Uganda Wildlife Authority
The ICB-PAMSU project provided funding for establishing the Uganda Wildlife Authority and developing
its internal systems, management team and governance structure. Also developed was the Strategic Plan
for the agency, along with methodologies for facilitating development of Annual Operating Plans for each
of the PAs that would implement the general strategies. PAMSU will provide logistical support, and fund
equipment, vehicles, training, and civil works for UWA to implement elements of that strategic plan. The
main focus of this component is support to field based operations for better management and conservation
of the PA systemL The activities financed under this component include the following: implementation of
the Protected Areas System Plan including boundary demarcation and community sensitization; community
conservation and co-management; development and implementation of park management plans; park
patrols, monitoring and training; park infrastructure; road maintenance and rehabilitation; problem animal
control program; renovation of Head Quarters offices and overhead; project management and monitoring.
Civil works will target staff accommodations in order to improve moral, effectiveness and reduce rent as
burden on overall agency operating costs. At headquarters, the project will provide operating support and
equipment for ongoing operations and refurbish the existing headquarters building in order to save rent
costs.
GEF support is sought to finance the following aspects of this component:
Field operations - Park Patrols and General Management Plans: At the field level the project will provide
support for increased patrols and monitoring of the protected areas, and the development and
implementation of park management plans and annual operations plans for each protected area. This will
be achieved through the provision of training, short and long-term TA, operational funds for the
implementation of park management plans including logistical support, urgently needed vehicles, equipment
and incremental operating costs.
UWA Community Management Program: UWA's community conservation program will focus on
"collaborative management" of PAs and collaboration with district and local government and communities
on wildlife management outside PAs. Community involvement in the protection and management of PAs is
on going and will be expanded as part of the UWA mandate. Support for the community conservation
directorate and program will include funds for technical assistance and program support to enable UWA to
develop and implement programs for. (i) collaborative management of PAs (involving adjacent
communities) and (ii) addressing wildlife management issues outside PAs, including aspects such as
'problem animals control', and the establishment of community wildlife management areas, and
encouraging and assisting local communities to make use of wildlife resources, (including medicinal plants)
in a sustainable way. For the latter, UWA will collaborate with and assist district and local governments
and community-based organizations, which have been given extensive authority and responsibilities under
the new wildlife act
- 34 -



ProtectedAreas System Plan (PASP): UWA, with support from the EU, and the ICB-PAMSU Project,
initiated a process of assessing the current status of the PA system with the aim of rationalizing it The
rationalization process involved revising and re-aligning the PA system to ensure that it (i) protects a
high-quality, representative sample of the country's biodiversity heritage and ecosystems, (ii) is manageable
in the long term, and (iii) provides a suitable basis for a sustainable tourism sector. The assessment
process took about 24 months; it included ecologicallbiodiversity, economic and social criteria and involved
participation of national and local governments and potentially affected communities.
The objective of the PASP is to rationalize and demarcate the boundaries of the protected areas estate in
Uganda. The PASP was developed through a consultative process which involved a detailed negotiation
with local communities to agree on PA changes. Negotiations were effected through the 'Local Council'
system, beginning at village level, up through sub-counties to Districts. Many workshops were held to
facilitate the involvement of all stakeholders. The PASP includes no new acquisition of land or extensions
of any of the PAs. All significant changes to boundaries represent excision of heavily encroached areas in
the PAs. Where it was agreed that a settled area should be excised entirely from a PA, agreements were
reached with local councils on new boundaries. Boundary agreements were also reached in instances where
long-established fishing villages within protected areas (e.g. Queen Elizabeth NP) were to be demarcated as
'wildlife sanctuaries', a PA category under UWA which permitted settlement, but with restrictions on
developments harmful to wildlife. Implementation of the plan will include demarcation of all the PA
boundaries. To minimize the costs of establishing and maintaining the boundaries special efforts were made
to ensure that boundaries followed natural features where possible (e.g. rivers, roads, hilltops etc). Where
boundaries are unclear or contentious, concrete pillars will be installed every 150 meters. Another option
for marking boundaries is to plant trees along the boundaries. GEF support will be used specifically to
carry out the final review and demarcation of the boundaries, including the surveying and installment of
boundary markers. Follow-up consultations for newly designated areas (i.e. wildlife sanctuaries) will also
be undertaken to establish the modalities of the new structure and relationship to the parks and surrounding
communities. A program of sensitization and outreach for the affected communities will be combined with
the demarcation exercise. The aim is to increase awareness about the parks and specifically the boundaries
especially in disputed areas.
The GEF share of this component reflects the incremental cost of establishing and administering a protected
area system that contributes to protection of global biodiversity but is larger than economically justified in
the face of competing land uses and the basic needs of a large and relatively poor rural population.
Financial sustainability of this higher central Government commitment may be built up over the project
period through reform of park entrance and other user fees. The GEF funding is requested for field
operation activities only and not headquarters activities because the additional level of effort to maintain a
PA system that ensures a comprehensive conservation and sustainable use of a fully representative set of
Uganda's biodiversity is concentrated at the decentralized field level. This effort is focused on maintaining
infrastructure, supporting surveillance and monitoring, and providing ongoing training in remote but
biological important areas typically not benefiting sufficiently from ecotourism.
Resettlement: During the course of the development of the Protected Areas System Plan, substantial
community consultation and redrawing of boundaries enabled the new proposed PASP to avoid significant
issues of resettlement in 22 of the 25 protected areas. However three potential significant issues remain in
Mt. Elgon National Park, Katonga Game Reserve, and Pian Upe Wildlife Reserve.
- 35 -



The World Bank and GOU have already engaged in discussions relating to establishing national protocols
and policies that will ensure compliance with the Bank's Safeguard policies across all sectors. These
discussions involve multi-sector consultations and are being driven by the need to comply with World Bank
Safeguard policies in connection with the PRSC Program; this program provides direct budgetary support
to Uganda. The urgency of addressing the identified resettlement issues inside protected areas is a further
indication of the need for national commitment to these safeguards.
The project will provide fimds to engage a team of consultants to review and design appropriate plans to
address the specific issues of people resident in the protected areas, or using the protected area resources.
This activity will be limited to the design of options for addressing the specific issues, all options will be
fully consistent with the World Bank Safeguard policies. The implementation of the plans will not be part
of the PAMSU project, but rather, will be financed separately.
Project Component 2 - US$4.00 million
GEF (US$3.9 million)
Component 2: Environmental Conservation Education
Agency: Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
UWEC was established as a Trust, with USAID assistance, to transform the run-down Entebbe Zoo into a
positive and effective center for conservation education, aimed at both the local population and tourists.
Under the leadership of a dynamic and committed staff and Board, UWEC has made substantial progress
in developing all aspects of its operations including its management team and staff, the physical
infrastructure and the educational and outreach program. Support from ICB-PAMSU provided for
strategic and business planning and feasibility studies aimed at identifying a realistic and sustainable larger
scale development plan. ICB-PAMSU also provided for modest expansion of existing facilities and
educational exhubits. UWEC plays a critical role in Uganda as the primary provider of outreach and public
awareness programs in the area of wildlife conservation. For many school children in Uganda, UWEC
provides the only opportunity to see and learn about the wildlife of their country. Most school children and
many adults have never visited a protected area in Uganda. UWEC provides the public with a place to see
first hand chimpanzees, lions, and even rhinos which were once plentiful in Uganda but are now extinct.
They also learn about the valuable resource they have and the reasons to conserve them. UWEC's
activities create public awareness and knowledge about Uganda's wildlife as well as broader environmental
and conservation issues.
PAMSU will provide resources to build on the investment made under ICB-PAMSU and to implement the
strategic business plan and development program established through that process. Specific activities
include the following: teacher education program and conservation education material development;
awareness campaign; infrastructure development including natural open air exhibits of the three major
ecosystems of Uganda (rainforest, savannah, and wetland), access road and staff accommodation, child
discovery center, animal welfare and rehabilitation program including receipt and care for confiscated
wildlife species under CITES. UWEC will reach out to school children around Uganda by funding both
day time visits for nearby schools and an ovemight residency program for children living more distant
New exhibits construction and maintenance highlighting Ugandan wildlife will be funded by the project to
increase the range of educational messages of interest Support will also be provided for improved animal
holding and veterinary facilities for both the needs of UWEC and the Wildlife Departnent Funds will also
be provided to investigate and establish a plan for the appropriate institutional structure, management, and
capitalization of the UWEC Trust.
- 36 -



GEF resources are requested to support this component The high proportion of GEF assistance to this
component recognizes that, in the very long term, better public awareness of Uganda's unique national
biological heritage and the economic benefits of biodiversity conservation will build support and
willingness to pay for conservation of these resources in the face of competing land-use and other
development pressures.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.70 million
GEF (US$0 million)
Component 3: Tourism Framework
Agency: Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
MMTI's mission and efforts within the project focus upon developing the tourism sector of the economy to
the maximum extent possible, consistent with the protection of environmnental and cultural values. The
project will provide funding for logistics and equipment that will (1) establish a sustainable tourism
framework based on policy development and enabling legislation; (2) provide for licensing and registration
of operators within the sector to ensure quality; (3) develop accurate statistics on the sector, and (4)
facilitate the improvement in human resource training. Under this component, support will also be
provided for the Wildlife Department in the MTTI. This support includes training, equipment,
management support and technical capacity building to enable the Wildlife Department to carry out
Uganda's responsibilities under relevant international treaties, and in particular to function effectively as
the Management Authority for the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES).
Project Component 4 - US$0.80 million
GEF (US$0 million)
Component 4: Cultural Heritage
Agency: Department ofAntiquilies and Museums
Uganda has a rich vein of cultural heritage that has to date been closeted in the Uganda Museum and
spread around the country in increasingly dilapidated and uncared-for monuments and sites. While the
interpretation of cultural history and practices is educational and interesting to both Ugandan citizens and
foreign visitors, its potential as an educational tool and revenue generator has been neglected in Uganda.
The newly established UMMA is an attempt by the Govemment of Uganda to concentrate some resources
on a renaissance of cultural heritage and create a focal point for this very important ambition. The strategy
for achieving this renaissance necessitates a multiple stakeholder effort rather than an institutional directive
from DAM as this would not be sustainable, given the resources available from Government and the seed
funding being proposed through PAMSU. The stakeholders include the Kingdom custodians themselves,
Local Government, and, in the case of small sites and monuments, the communities where they lie. DAM
will seek partnership anrangements with these stakeholder groups and proceed gradually.
The re-instatement of the traditional Kingdoms (abolished under Obote's rule in the 1960s) and their
property was a clear signal from this Government that cultural heritage was important for Ugandans.
Inevitably that move has taken some time to precipitate through the kingdom hierarchy and result in the
reestablishment of working structures that are not in conflict with each other (as was the case initially).
DAM is perceived as the correct institution to lead this effort. It also has the credibility with the respective
Kingdoms who have actually been requesting a central agency with the right expertise to help them
preserve and bring to life their cultures.
- 37 -



The objective of supporting DAM under the PAMSU project is to strengthen DAM with capital support for
renovation and improvement, to provide maintenance costs to maintain its current base, and to develop
public/private partnerships for sustainability. PAMSU would support the following activities: museum
refurbishment; establishment of a heritage trail in Fort Portal; development of a cultural center in Kabale;
development of a country-wide cultural historic sites register and database; pilot cultural site development;
operating expenses and training.
Project Coordination - US$0.90 million
GEF (US$O million)
Agency: Project Coordination Unit
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTTI has been responsible for coordination and oversight of
ICB-PAMSU and for the preparation of PAMSU. Its responsibilities include donor liaison, program
identification, procurement of goods and services and contract management Under the PAMSU project,
the PCU will continue for two and a half years playing more of a supporting role to the Implementing
Agencies which will eventually take full responsibility for procurement and project implementation.
The intention is to move from a model where the PCU is responsible for disbursement and procurement of
IDA/GEF funds to a support and capacity building role. The PCU team will provide guidance and support
to the implementing agencies, while the agencies will be responsible for preparing the necessary.
documentation (i.e. terms of reference, requests for no objection, withdrawal applications, annual work
plan submissions and any M&E reporting requirements). The new implementation arrangements for
PAMSU include establishing separate special accounts for each implementing agency. UWA and UWEC
will manage their own special accounts from the inception of the project The DAM and MITI
components will be managed under special accounts for which the PCU will be responsible for the first two
and a half years. Once the PCU has been phased out the Ministry will take responsibility for
implementation.
The project will support TA, equipment and other operating costs for the PCU. Under the TA category, the
project will support the positions of Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant.
Support staff include two secretaries, five drivers, an accounts assistant, and an office attendant The PCU
will assume responsibility for all MTTI vehicles purchased under ICB-PAMSU, including their
registration, logbooks, and maintenance. Vehicle operations for MTI activities will be funded from the
activity budgets.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA. Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost-By Component               US $million  US $million  US $nillion
Sustainable Wildlife Management                         21.50         7.30        28.80
Environmental Conservation Education                     2.70         0.90          3.60
Tourism Framework                                        1.20         0.40          1.60
Cultural Heritage                                        0.60         0.20          0.80
Project Coordination                                     0.70         0.20          0.90
Total Baseline Cost                                     26.70         9.00         35.70
Physical Contingencies                                  1.30         1.00          2.30
Price Contingencies                                     0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'            28.00        10.00         38.00
Total Financing Required             28.00        10.00        38.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $milfion  US $million  US $mifllion
Civil Works                                               14.13          0.00        14.13
Goods, Equipment and Vehicles                              0.63          4.20         4.83
Services                                                   2.79          0.60         3.39
Training                                                   1.35          0.00         1.35
Operating Costs                                            6.30          4.20        10.50
Unallocated                                                2.80          1.00         3.80
Total Project Costs     28.00         10.00        38.00
Total Financing Required     28.00         10.00        38.00
IdeAtifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 30 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90% of total
prject cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
UGANDA. Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Context and Broad Development Goals
1.     Context. Uganda possesses a rich natural endowment of forests, mountains, and waterways, as
well as some of the richest assemblages of biological diversity in Africa. Harboring l 1% of the world's
bird species and more than 7% of total world mammals, Uganda has pursued an ambitious program of
protection and conservation that has resulted in an extensive system of protected areas. This system
includes ten national parks, and twenty-nine game reserves, sanctuaries, and controlled hunting areas; it is
complemented by an extensive forest reserve estate that is also potentially imnportant to biodiversity
maintenance. Until the early 1970s, Uganda's protected areas served as the basis for a well-established
tourism industry that was the country's third largest foreign exchange eamer. Subsequent political strife
resulted in the deterioration of a significant proportion of the country's protected area system; wildlife
poaching, encroachment in protected areas for foodcrop production and livestock grazing, and land clearing
for human settlement have all taken a heavy toll on the natural resource base. A concomitant degradation
in physical infriastructure, which previously supported a vital tourism industry, exacerbated the overall
sustainability of the protected area system. Wildlife disappeared, tourism revenues fell, habitat became
degraded, and local populations - through poverty and economic necessity - reverted to further
non-sustainable use of local resources. Notwithstanding these historical trends, the rather extensive system
of protected areas remains in good enough condition that, if properly managed, it will provide substantial
opportunities for renewed economic growth, contributing positively to social goals of local poverty
alleviation as well as to ecological goals such as the maintenance of globally important biodiversity.
2.     General Development Goals. The war years also took a heavy toll on Uganda's physical
infrastructure, economic competitiveness, social conditions, and public sector institutional capacity. To
address these areas, Uganda has followed an aggressive program of reforns and interventions that are
aimed at laying the groundwork for accelerated future economic growth. Spending on physical
infrastructure has been resumed, with a view to providing an economically efficient system of
transportation, energy and other services that will improve overall competitiveness. Economic policy
reforms in the context of general domestic and international trade liberalization have created renewed
incentives for private sector investments. Increased social sector spending in health, education and basic
water and sanitation requirements is targeted to ameliorating poverty. In the political field, institutional
reforms are stream-lining existing government institutions and decentralizing decision-making authority to
local and District governments; this policy is entrenched in the Decentralization Act, and it has also
required, in many cases, strengthening of central institutions to provide the requisite technical support to
decentralized authorities. All of these development goals - economic infrastructure improvements,
economic liberalization, poverty alleviation, and decentralization of authority and decision-making - are
being actively supported by multilateral and bilateral agencies, as well as international NGOs. Although
such activities have been pursued aggressively for just a decade, progress in all of these areas is promising.
3.     The Role of Biodiversity Maintenance in Uganda's Development. Uganda recognizes that
maintenance of its biodiversity - the individual species as well as the habitat that supports them - is an
important building block in its overall development strategy. GOU has reiterated this in a number of
official domestic policies and programs (such as the National Environmental Action Plan and the Integrated
Tourism Master Plan) as well as through its global commitments relating to conventions on Biological
Diversity, Endangered Species (CITES), and Wetlands (Ramsar). Specifically, biodiversity maintenance is
expected to contribute to overall development goals as follows: (i) the natural resource base provides for
renewed economic opportunities for tourism development; (ii) protected areas that are managed for their
-40 -



tourism benefits and local sustainable uses will contribute positively to local poverty alleviation; (iii)
infrastructure improvements linked to protected areas will contribute to a liberalized economic climate that
provides incentives for private sector and community-level investment; and, (iv) improved decision-making
and management related to protected areas will be encouraged through increased local stakeholder
involvement - including NGOs, community groups, local enterprises, and local government agencies.
Baseline Scenario
4.     General Scope. In the absence of GEF assistance, it is expected that the GOU would nonetheless
pursue some program of protected areas management to meet domestic development objectives. Some of
this was instituted and made possible as a result of the prior World Bank/GEF supported ICB-PAMSU
project, and some comes as a natural consequence of promulgating the revised Protected Area System Plan
before parliament in December 2001. The Baseline has been defined to include those activities that are
either directly or indirectly intended to support the protected areas system. Conceptually, there is some
level of Baseline expenditures that would be required in each of the five subcomponents of the PAMSU
project.
5.     Costs. The total expenditures associated with the Baseline Scenario are estimated to be US$22.0
million. These can be described as follows:
*   Uganda Wildlife Authoritv. (US$18.515 million) Targeted support is provided to UWA for protected
areas and wildlife management. Under the Baseline, this amount is directed primarily to some
institutional strengthening at the central level (i.e., UWA headquarters construction) and for
infrastructure associated with decentralized operations (i.e., staff housing, park offices, road
maintenance equipment).
* Tourism Framework and Wildlife Division. (US$ 1.700 million) The GOU would provide ongoing
public sector support to tourism initiatives that place government in a facilitating role in terms of its
interactions with the private sector and other stakeholders. It also would provide support to selected
planning functions that include the generation of statistical information that would be of interest to
tourism planning. These activities are undertaken in parallel with support to be provided by the EU to
the private sector and decentralized government initiatives relating to tourism planning in the districts
(as this EU program involves parallel activities and is not a co-financing initiative its monetary value
has not been specifically appraised and it is regarded as extemal to the project). In addition, the GOU
will - under the Baseline - honor its domestic and intemational wildlife policy obligations and will
provide funding to the Wildlife Division for undertaking required policy activities (e.g., recording
information relating to CITES listed species, attending international meetings associated with
Conventions, etc).
* Cultural Heritage. (US$780,000) The GOU under the Baseline will provide resources for the
Department of Antiquities and Museums to improve the museum exhibits and to implement
decentralized projects that enhance cultural awareness and provide an additional node for long-term
tourism development.
* Conservation Education. (US$100,000) GOU would, under the Baseline, provide some targeted
support to the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC) to complement information dissemination
and education in support of various economically justifiable tourism activities and in line with some of
its intemational obligations for animal protection. This level of support, however, would not permit
dissemination of information that may be of a higher international priority.
-41 -



*   Project Administrative Support (US$910,000) This includes selected administrative support for the
above Baseline activities, especially those relating to the Tourism Framework and Cultural Heritage
development
6.     Benefits. It is anticipated that the PAMSU project will significantly impact Uganda's ability to
undertake the conservation and protection of its biodiversity and environmental assets. Under the Baseline
Scenario, institutional capacity and human resources will be developed to enable management and
conservation of biodiversity, including improved capacity for management, research and policy
development, planning and monitoring of Uganda's protected area system, as well as improved and
rehabilitated facilities and infrastructure. These benefits, along with improved maintenance and
management of Uganda's cultural assets, will contribute to both conservation and tourism development,
will provide a foundation for longer-term benefits of returns from a significantly increased level of tourism,
and will contribute to GOU goals of strengthened institutional capacity at all levels of government,
improved fiscal sustainability, and a supportive environment for private sector development. Other
components of the project will support the primary focus of protecting and managing biodiversity, by
providing essential staff training, public education, community participation, local capacity, accessible
information, and efficient project coordination. In addition to domestic benefits, the Baseline Scenario will
contribute to effective conservation and protection of globally significant biodiversity and environmental
assets.
7.     Domestic Opportunity Costs and Potential Offsets. Considerable debate exists over the level of
opportunity costs incurred by placing land into a protected area system. It is generally acknowledged that
the protected area system does impose some losses on the country, although there is substantial uncertainty
and disagreement arnong analysts regarding the level of these costs. First, farmers near protected area
boundaries suffer crop and stock losses which can be attributed to wildlife in the protected areas. These
losses have been valued as high as US$75 million annually; however, this value is based on unreliably low
samples and considerable uncertainty about losses further from protected areas. One of the interventions in
the PAMSU project will reduce such losses and conflicts through targeted animal control programs in
boundary communities. Second, the opportunity costs of land may be a significant long run consideration.
While not all arable land in Uganda has yet been taken up for agriculture and grazing, local land
constraints in the region of some protected areas already exist, and will intensify as population increases. It
is projected that land availability will become a binding constraint in 15 to 30 years; at that point, economic
pressures to convert land to non-protected uses will become difficult to resist for any domestic government
Depending upon assumptions relating to the timing and extent of land constraints, the opportunity costs of
retaining protected areas for biodiversity conservation are estimated by various sources at a net present
value of from US$200 million to US$1,100 million. Third, offsetting these concerns, however, estimates of
local benefits associated with tourism, improved functioning of watersheds for water supply, and
maintenance of other ecological functions are of a similar order of magnitude; some aggregated estimates of
these (also uncertain) amounts are well in excess of US$1,000 million. Analytically, all of these
opportunity costs (and benefits) accrue to the Baseline Scenario. The Baseline Scenario project design
does, however, provide some mitigative programs to limit losses. The potentially high estimates for future
opportunity costs underline, however, how essential it is for the global community to provide GEF
assistance now to conserve biodiversity.
-42 -



Global Environmental Objective
8.     The global environmental objective of the GEF Alternative is to ensure the effective, long-term
conservation of Uganda's biodiversity in the face of competing economic pressures. Protection will be
ensured over a wide range,of ecosystem types, including wetlands, swamps, tropical high forests,
Afroalpine forests, grass and woodland savannahs, and internationally important lakes and rivers. Uganda
is the fourth most densely populated country in Africa, 86% rural, with 357 rural people per square
kilometer of arable land, largely dependent on smallholder agriculture for sustenance, and with a steep
population growth rate. At the same time, Uganda ranks in the top ten nations in Africa in terms of species
numbers for all major groups, and among the top ten in the world for mammals, including over half of the
known world population of mountain gorilla. Its concentration of biological wealth offers exceptional
opportunities to achieve global biodiversity conservation objectives cost-effectively. The project design is
consistent with guidance from the Conference of the Parties as it addresses in situ conservation as it
includes: (i) ongoing capacity building; (ii) strengthening the conservation, management, and sustainable
use of ecosystems and habitats; (iii) strengthening the involvement of local and indigenous people; and, (iv)
integrating social dimensions including those related to poverty.
GEF Alternative
9.     Scope. With GEF assistance for addressing the global biodiversity objectives outlined above, the
GOU would be able to undertake a more effective program that would generate both national and global
benefits. The major thrust of the incremental activities would be to address a number of targeted initiatives
that improve management of the complete PA system. As noted previously, the Baseline Scenario
concentrates supportive infrastructure and on centralized institutional strengthening that is a prerequisite
for eventual support to management structures and projects throughout the parks system. Also some of the
programs supported under the Baseline relate to activities that generate long-term financial returns in the
tourism sector. Under the GEF Alternative, GOU can provide more support to a broader range of activities
that support clear demarcation of the entire system and provide for effective patrolling and management of
the entire system. It also, thereby, includes those habitats that may be of high priority from a global
perspective but which do not yield substantial domestic benefits. The GEF Alternative also provides
substantial strengthening of conservation education initiatives necessary for long-term sustainability of the
protected area estate.
10.    Costs. The total expenditures associated with the GEF Alternative are estimated to be US$37.9
million. Under the GEF Alternative, the program would still comprise the following Baseline components
with no changes or additions to them: (i) Tourism Framework (US$1.700 million); (ii) Cultural Heritage
(US$780,000); and, (iii) Project Administration (US$910,000). In addition, the program would involve
expanded components relating to UWA activities and to UWEC as follows:
*   Uganda Wildlife Authority. (US$30.615 million) In addition to the Baseline activities, substantially
higher support would be given to the management for all PAs. Specifically, this would include
activities such as: physical demarcation of the complete PA system after ratification by Parliament;
comprehensive park planning through management plans and annual operating plans; provision of
specialized equipment, training and uniforms to all park staff, development of community conservation
programs in boundary areas of the parks; improved management systems for financial controls;
development of monitoring systems for wildlife (through MIST); and, implementation of selected
long-term monitoring programs.
-43 -



*   Conservation Education. (US$3.9 million) An expanded program would permit an order of magnitude
increase in the scale of conservation education activities in Uganda. Support would be given to UWEC
to permit dissemination of information of international importance. Specific support will be given for
the following activities: (i) Conservation education through teacher education, infrastructure support
for Lakeshore and fish pond development, a Child's Discovery Centre, a residence programme and
associated materials and displays; (ii) Animal husbandry through Animal welfare and rehabilitation
programs coupled with enhanced displays and interpretive exhibits, veterinary expenses, maintenance
and repairs; (iii) Development of Trust Fund models to provide a basis for sustainable funding of
UWEC beyond this project; (iv) financial and management controls; (v) support infrastructure
including a short access road and upgraded staff accommodation; and, (vi) operational support for
ongoing operational expenses including staff training.
11.   Benefits. The GEF Altemative incorporates the substantial benefits (and implicit opportunity
costs) of the Baseline Scenario, and will enable further beneficial outcomes beyond those already specified.
In addition to the Baseline benefits, incremental benefits to the global community include the ability to
sustain a comprehensive protected area system which is capable of conserving and sustaining globally
significant and representative biodiversity, despite competing economic pressures on the land base. GEF
assistance will enable Uganda to protect and to utilize sustainably the country's biodiversity beyond a
nationally justified and affordable level. Improved revenue generation from sustainable ecotourism, a
project goal, is not anticipated to be sufficient to protect areas of lower tourism potential containing critical
biodiversity resources. GEF investment in conservation education will lead to long-term willingness to pay
for conservation benefits due to improved public awareness. Global benefits will include enhanced
monitoring and information exchange through improved record-keeping, and effective capacity to preserve
endangered species through the ability to fulfill intemational biodiversity conservation treaty obligations
under CITES. Continued protection of many additional ecological functions, and of option and existence
values, is an unquantified but large benefit to the global community.
12.   It is estimated that incremental domestic benefits of US$7.918 million will be realized in the GEF
Altemative case. This amount excludes potential domestic benefits from game harvesting, some of which
may occur in any event in the Baseline Scenario. The incremental potential, over the long term, involves a
potential gross revenue of US$250,000 annually once game levels recover. Net revenues would be less
than this, and incremental revenues with respect to the Baseline would decrease the amount further. At
most, it is expected to have a domestic net present value of about US$0.73 million; because this benefit is
highly uncertain and not of a high priority, however, it is effectively zero-weighted and excluded from the
benefit adjustment These benefits include incremental local sustainable direct uses, distributional benefits,
incremental protection of ecological functions, and preservation of domestically significant option values.
While some direct uses of forests, such as pit-sawing timber extraction, were at unsustainable levels prior
to inclusion in the protected area system, and some traditional uses are incompatible with biodiversity
conservation, others, such as honey production, have been enhanced by protection of the environment
Overall, the incremental portion of local direct use of natural products of protected areas is valued at
US$2.244 million. Some domestic incremental distributional benefits are realized from conservation
employment, which has offset the loss of previous unsustainable economic activities in the areas now
protected, these benefits are valued at US$0. 165 million. Maintenance of domestic fisheries through the
watershed protection afforded by the intact forests of the protected area system is valued at US$1.061
million. Additionally, enhanced maintenance of water sources and local rainfall for agriculture may also be
attributed to watershed protection, but these benefits have not been adequately demonstrated and have
therefore not been quantified. Finally, the domestic coffee industry benefits from the option value afforded
by conservation of wild genetic stocks, valued at US$4.448 million.
- 44 -



Incremental Cosls
13.   Incremental Expenditures. The total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario is estimated to be
US$22.0 million while the total expenditure under the GEF Alternative is estimated to be US$37.9 million.
The incremental expenditures under the GEF Alternative are therefore US$15.9 million. The majority of
expenditures (76%) is attnbutable to decentralized activities of UWA, while 24% is attributable to
enhanced conservation education efforts.
14.   Incremental Costs. The incremental expenditures of US$15.9 million are partially offset by an
incremental domestic benefit of US$7.9 million. This benefit would not have been realized in the Baseline
Scenario, and is primarily associated' with sustainable direct uses, distributional benefits, protection of
ecological functions, and preservation of domestically significant option values. The net result is that the
Incremental cost of the GEF Alternative is US$8.0 million, for which GEF assistance is requested. The
allocation of these amounts, and the resultant financing structure for the GEF Alternative as a whole, is
sumarized in Table A1.2.
15.    Cost-effectiveness. While no complete monetization of the global benefits of a GEF intervention
has been completed, it is possible to provide some indication of its cost-effectiveness. It is estimated that
the intervention translates to an annualized cost of US$144/km2/yr of effective protection; this reflects the
basic hypothesis that improved decentralized measures will ensure protection of a wider range of species
and habitats (approx. 1.3 million ha phased in over 30 years) than otherwise would be the case. The
literature indicates that typical conservation expenditures around the world reflect international
interventions corresponding to approximately US$20/kn2/yr to US$2,000/kn2/yr of protection. In the
case of Uganda, therefore, the investments in the Baseline Scenario, which are targeted to meet domestic
development priorities, provide an opportunity for the international community to obtain high efficiency for
its conservation expenditures.
-45 -



Table A1.1 - PAMSU Incremental Cost Determination
(US $ million) 12001$I
Component           Category        Expendhture    Domestic Benefit               Global Benefit
1. Sustainable      Baseline        USS18.515      Conservation and protection of  Supportof better management and
Wildlife                                           nationally important biodiversity  protection of biodiversity.
Management                                         and environmental assets through
provision of basic infrastructure
and equipment forpark personnel.
With GEF        US$30.615     Improved sustainable direct use of  Establishment, demarcation and
Altemative                     forest products, enhanced      maintenance of a oomprehensive and
maintenance of water quality and  representative protected area system
local rainfall for agnrculture and  capable of sustainably conserving
fisheres, option value from     globally significant biodiversity
conservation of genetic stocks of  despite competing economic
domestically significant species.  pressures. Protection of species
Community participation in      within these demarcated areas.
conservation leading to domestic
economic development and
poverty alleviation.
Incremental     USS12.100      USS7.900
nI. Tourism         Baseline        US$1.700       Promotion of public & private   Preservation of globally significant
Framework (includes                                sector partnerships in enhanced  natural assets. Capacity to carry out
support to Wildlife                                conservation and tourism        biodiversity conservation policy,
Division)                                          development; increased tourism  planning & monitoring; fulfill CITES
returns.                        obligations.
With GEF        US$1.700       As above.                       As above.
Alternative
Incremental     USSO.000       USSO.000
Ill. Cultural       Baseline        US$0.780       Improved maintenance &          Preservation of globally significant
Heritage                                           management of cultural assets;  culural assets.
increased tourism retums.
With GEF        US$0.780       As above.                       As above.
Altemative
Incremental     US$0.00O       US$0.000
IV. Environmental   Baseline        USS0.100       Fulfillment of domestic         Improved biodiversity conservation
Conservation                                       conservation education needs.  through education.
Education
With GEF        US$3.900       As above.                       Higher levels of conservation;
Alternative                                                    enhanced monitoring and information
exchange through improved
record-keeping, improved animal
welfare and protection of endangered
species.
reInemental     USS3.800       USSO.000
V. Project          Baseline        US$0.9 10      Efficient administration of project
Adminishation &                                    funds, coordination of
Support ("PCU")                                    implementing institutions, and
evaluation of progress.
With GEF        US$0.9 10      As above.
Alternative
Incremental     USSO.000       USSO.000
Baseline        US$22.005
Totals              With GEF        US$37.905
Altemative
Incremental     US$15.900      US$7.900                        _
Incremental Expenditure        US$15-9                         _
Summary             Incremental Domestic Benefit   (USS7.9)                        _
Calculation for GEF
Eligibility
Incremental Cost               US$aO                           _
Note: This Is an updated Incremental Cost calculatIon based on a similar calcultion undertaken at the Ume of ICB-PAMSU project
desgn (1997). Notable differences are that this revised project exdudes expenditures for the Forestry Department and a ramining
nstitute. The benefit adjustments have been escalated to reflect foreign exchange and inflationary adjustments.
-46 -



Table A1.2 -- PAMSU Financing (US$million) 12001$1
GEF            IDA           GOU          Total
1.    Sustainable Wildlife Maragement                        (4.158)       (23.908)       (2.549)     (30.615)
a. nfrastructure - Boundary Demarcation                 2.500           0.000        0.200         2.700
b. Infrastructure-Parks                                 0.000          15.780        1.500        17.280
c. UWA Headquarters Construction and Operations         0.000           1.770        0.180         1.950
d. Field Operations - Park Plans and Patrols            0.558           5.080        0.449         6.087
e. UWA Community Programrs                              0.100           0.680        0.050         0.830
f Management,TrainingandMonitoring                      1.000           0.598        0.170         1.768
11.   Tourism Frarnework                                     (0.000)        (1.556)       (0.144)      (1.700)
a. Policy, Statistics and Institutional Support Activities  0.000       1.414        0.131         1.545
b. Wildlife Division                                    0.000           0.142        0.013         0.155
111   Cultural Heritage                                       0.000          0.728         0.052        0.780
[V.   Environmental Conservation Education                    3.842          0.000         0.058        3.900
V.    Pmject Administration & Support ("PCU")                 0.000          0.819         0.091        0.910
Total Finandng Requirements                             8.000          27.010        2.894        37.905
-47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1| Year 2       Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5  | Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           12.0       9.1        6.3        5.5       5.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                                                                  0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          12.0       9.1        6.3        5.5       5.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              12.0       9.1        6.3        5.5       5.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
lBRD/IDA                  73.0       66.0       67.0      75.0       76.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                  8.0        8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0       0.0       0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers GEF         19.0       26.0       25.0      17.0       16.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Financial Management Assessment
Summary Assessment
As shown below, the current financial management arrangements satisfy IDA's minimum requirements
under OP/BP10.02. However, with respect to the UWEC, they are not adequate to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the Project as required by the IDA
for report-based disbursements. UWEC is therefore not yet ready for report-based disbursements, as
outlined in the World Bank's Guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports. A plan of actions for UWEC is
outlined below, the completion of which will allow for the credit to be disbursed on the basis of FMR's.
With respect to the PCU and UWA, the financial management arrangements are strong enough to allow for
report based disbursements. The Action Plan for UWEC is set out on page 63 while those for UWA and
PCU are set out on pages 61 and 58.
Institutional and Implementation arrangements
The project will be imnplemented by the following agencies:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTTI
Uganda Wildlife Authority
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
Department of Antiquities and Museums
-48 -



The roles of these institutions are detailed in the PAD. During the initial two and a half years of the
project, the PCU will manage the Special Account through which funds for activities carried out by the
DAM and the MTTI will be chamneled as outlined below.
Project Description Summary
A detailed description of the project is contained in the Project Appraisal Document The project has four
components:
* Component 1: Sustainable Wildlife Management (Agency: Uganda Wildlife Authority)
* Component 2: Environmental Conservation Education (Agency: Uganda Wildlife Education Center)
*  Component 3: Tourism Framework (Agency: Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry (MTTI))
Component 4: Cultural Heritage (Agency: Department of Antiquities and Museums (DAM))
Generic Issues
County Issues
In recent years, significant improvements in public sector accounting and reporting have been achieved.
Most notably, the annual public accounts of Government have been produced within the statutory period of
four months after the end of the financial year for each of the past four years. Nevertheless, recent
assessments undertaken by Government jointly with donors and IDA, such as the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) have identified a number of areas that need to be strengthened to
enhance financial management. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), indicates that
inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at the center and in the districts pose a major
fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a relatively good budgeting system, accounting for public expenditure
using the present manual system is weak, largely because of weak staff capacities, neglect for timely and
regular recording of transactions, side-stepping of controls, and a lack of financial discipline. It was noted
during the CFAA that findings of audit reports were not regularly followed up and public accounts
contained a number of material non-reconciled balances. There is an acute shortage of qualified
accountants in the public sector. With the support of a number of donor assisted initiatives, such as the
Second Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP II) and the Local Government Development
Project (LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support Project
funded by DFID, Government is seeking to rapidly enhance the financial accountability framework in
pursuit of thefollowing objectives:
* mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both taxpayers and donors;
* achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds;
* enhance transparency and accountability;
* enhance staff capacity in financial management both in Central and local government; and
* establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector development and regulation.
As an initial measure, the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development has expanded the
mandate of the coordinating mechanism in place for guiding and monitoring all reform programs in
financial management throughout Government using the existing structures under EFMP II.
-49-



Financial Reporting
Formats of the various periodic financial reports to be generated from the financial management system
will be developed. There will be clear linkages between the information in these reports and the Chart of
Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to provide quality and timely information to project
management, implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project perfonnance. The Financial
Procedures Manual will be revised to define the reports to be prepared, their content and how they are to be
used.
These reports include financial statements (e.g. sources and application of funds; expenditure classified by
project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and implementing agencies, and
comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts of expenditure; unit costs for key items and comparison with
budgets; etc). Sample formats are given in the World Bank's Guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports.
FMRs will be produced on a quarterly basis to support requests for replenishment of the Special Account
and will include the following:
Financial Statements: These are to provide information on the sources and uses of funds by loan
category and by project activity, forecasts of expenditure, amount of disbursement requested and a
reconciliation of the SA.
Project Progress Reports: These are to provide information on project implementation progress in
physical and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying deviations from plans
and explaining reasons for such variations.
Procurement Management Reports: These are to indicate the status of procurement and contract
commitments and expenditure including source of supply data for contracts subject to the Bank's prior
review, as well as post-review contracts above a certain threshold.
Annual Financial Statements and Annexes for each of the implementing agencies will include:
A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds showing funds from IDA and Counterpart Funds
separately, a summary of expenditures analyzed under the main headings and by main category of
expenditures (consistent with the Chart of Accounts), both for the current fiscal year and accumulated
to date.
A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds for the Project, bank balances as well as other assets and
liabilities of the Project, if any.
Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts and any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view".
Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments received, payments substantiated by
withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at the end of the
fiscal year.
A Reconciliation between the amounts shown as "Received" by the Project from IDA and that shown
as having been "Disbursed" by them.
Implementation Report, which would be a narrative summary of the implementation progress for the
project.
- 50 -



* Summary of Credit Withdrawals using SOE's or FMR's, listing individual withdrawal applications
by reference number, date and amount
Indicative formats of these statements will be developed in accordance with IDA requirements.
Linkages between Expenditure and Physical Actvides
Inputs and outputs of financial information required to track project implementation should be identified for
each component. In addition, inportant items on which physical data which would be captured and which
would be included in the financial reports should be identified, and so should methods of capturing the
physical data, and linkages with financial reports. These should be documented in the Financial Procedures
Manuals for each component. The Project Implementation Plan will address the following areas for each
component: Inputs and Outputs of financial information required to track project implementation; Inputs
and Outputs of physical information matched with financial information required; and Arrangements for
recording project impacts, outcomes, outputs, and inputs that are required to assess project progress toward
project objectives.
Books of Accounts and lists of accoundng codes
Separate books of accounts will be maintained by the implementing entities for project transactions for the
project and will include:
a)   Cash Book;
b)   Ledgers;
c)   Joumal Vouchers; and
d)   Contracts register
Each of the implementing agencies has an existing Chart of Accounts for transactions they already
undertake. However, these will be amended to allow for the classification of expenditures and sources and
application of funds under the new project The Chart of accounts should be amended in a way that allows
project costs to be directly related to specific work activities and outputs of the project
Disbursement of the IDA Credit and the GEF Grant to the Implemendng agencies
The disbursement of the IDA Credit to the PCU and UWA will be done quarterly based on Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) that integrate project accounting, procurement, contract management,
disbursement and audit with physical progress of project implementation.
The FMRs will include infornation under three main categories: (a) project financial reports which
includes a summary of sources and uses of funds, an updated six-month forecast, a Special Account
reconciliation statement, and an eligible expenditures by disbursement category statement; (b) a project
progress report which explains variances between actual physical and financial progress versus forecasts;
and (c) a procurement management report which shows procurement status and contract commitments.
An initial six month forecast of project expenditures will be agreed between the UWA and IDA. This will
cover the first two quarters, i.e the first two FMR periods. Following this agreement, an advance relating
to aggregate disbursement requests not exceeding the forecast amount will be payable by the Bank upon
demand by UWA. After the first and each subsequent quarter, the project will submit to IDA FMRs and
relevant supporting docurnentation (see below) relating to each disbursement IDA will be responsible for
- 51 -



reviewing these to confum the eligibility of expenditures during the period covered by the FMR. The FMR
will also contain a new forecast for the next two FMR periods. The cash request relating to each FMR will
be the amount indicated in the approved cashflow forecast for the following six months less the balance in
the Special Account at the end of the FMR period. Subsequent disbursements of the IDA Credit will
therefore be made in respect of similar cash requests.
The supporting documentation relevant to each FMR includes: the required minimum FMR content on
financial, procurement and physical progress; statements containing Institutional Information; source of
supply information (see below); breakdown of aggregate disbursements by legal disbursement category and
disbursement percentage; Special Account reconciliation statement; Special Account bank statement; and a
forecast of expenditures for the next two FMR reporting periods.
The following source of supply information is required: (a) For contracts above the prior review threshold,
the contractor/consultant's name, nationality, and (where applicable) the zip code, and the amount
disbursed under each contract; (b) For contracts below the prior review threshold: aggregate disbursements
by country of supply.
Information relating to details for contracts above the prior review threshold as indicated above will be
captured using World Bank standard contract infornation documents upon the inception of the contract and
will not therefore be required upon the preparation of the periodic FMR
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing has been included to allow reimbursement for expenditures made prior to the signing
date. The retroactive financing clause will cover expenditures made after June 30, 2002 and before the
signing of the Agreement for the IDA Credit and GEF Grant as follows: IDA Credit - in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 50,000, and SDR 80,000 may be made in respect of
Consultant's Services Category 3a and 3b, and equivalent of SDR 300,000 and SDR 20,000 may be made
in respect of Operating Costs Category 5a and 5b; GEF Grant - in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 100,000 may be made in respect of Operating Costs Category 5b.
Transitional arrangements for disbursement
During the period between GEF Grant Effectiveness and qualification by UWEC for report-based
disbursements, disbursement of the GEF proceeds to this agency will be done using transaction-based
methods. An advance into the Special Account will be made at the inception of the project, and subsequent
replenishments will be made on the basis of withdrawal applications and Statements of Expenditure
(SOE's). Quarterly reports and forecasts that are required under the report-based disbursement method
will be prepared by the implementing agencies and submitted to the Bank for review. They will be used to
assess progress towards meeting the requirements of this method of disbursement. At the time of
conversion, UWEC will prepare a reconciliation of project expenditures, disbursements received, and
Special Account movements up to the proposed date of the conversion. Other details for the conversion
will be worked out closer to the time of conversion between the project team and the Bank.
Subject to the necessary agreement, the Bank and the implementing agencies will retain the option of
disbursing the GEF Grant through direct payments from the Bank to operators/contractors on contracts
above a threshold to be determined. Withdrawal applications for such payments will be accompanied by
relevant supporting documents such as copies of the contract, contractors' invoices and relevant
certifications.
- 52 -



Counterpart Funds
Counterpart funds from the Govermment of Uganda to the implementing agencies will be indicated on a
quarterly basis and will be based on approved workplans. The committed funds will be released in monthly
installments. The project will submit quarterly accountability statements to GOU.
Remedies against non-submission of returns and otherfinancial information
IDA will have the right, as reflected in the Credit Agreement, to suspend disbursement to the implementing
agencies if reporting requirements are not complied with.
Documents relatng to Bank accounts
Bank statements for the accounts maintained by the implementing agencies will be reconciled to the
Projects accounting records on a monthly basis. The reconciliations will be approved by a senior official
within the each of the agencies and any reconciling items will be investigated. Correspondence, bank
statements, advices, list of signatories and other relevant information will be filed for each bank account.
Bank cheque books will be kept in the safe custody of a person specifically appointed by the heads of the
agencies. Cheque folios and related bank account information will be similarly maintained.
The World Bank will regularly distribute the following documents to enable the implementing agencies to
keep their records up-to-date in respect to the IDA Credit:
* Payment Advice,
* Monthly Disbursement Summary which provides the following information in two parts:
- Part I: Opening balance and list of all transactions under the loan during the previous month,
including all applications paid or refunds processed, along with value dates, currencies and
amounts charged to the loan, and
- Part 2: End of month balances for each category and for the loan as a whole, as well as amounts
set aside to cover Special Commitments (if any).
Fixed Assets, consulting services and civU works
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. For construction and capital
work in progress, controls will be established over the awarding of contracts as well as for ensuring that
payments are made in a timely and orderly manner in respect of certified work. Control procedures over
fixed assets, consulting services and civil works will be documented in the respective Financial Procedures
Manuals.
External audit
The Auditor General is primarily responsible for the auditing of all government institutions and projects.
Usually, the audit is subcontracted to a firm of relevantly qualified, experienced and independent private
auditors, with the final report being issued by the Auditor General, based on the tests carried out by the
subcontracted firm. The external auditor does prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations
and comments, and providing recommendations for improvement of accounting records, systems, controls
and compliance with financial covenants. The audit report should be submitted to IDA within six months
after end of each financial year. Any firm of auditors subcontracted to carry out the audit should meet the
IDA's requirements in terms of independence, qualifications and experience.
- 53 -



Arrangements for the external audit of the financial statements of the project will be determined and
communicated to IDA. The audited financial statements together with the auditor's report thereon and the
auditor's management letter covering identified intemal control and accounting system weaknesses will be
submitted to IDA within six months after end of each financial year. These audit reports will include those
in respect of the project accounts, the use of SOEs/FMRs and on the Special Account Statement Any firm
of auditors subcontracted to cany out the audit should meet the IDA's requirements in terms of
independence, qualifications and experience.
Accounting policies and procedures
The project's accounting policies specify the accounting treatment for the project's financial transactions
and constitute basic principles designed to ensure that the accounting records are complete, relevant and
reliable and that accounting practices are followed consistently. The accounting policies and procedures
for UWA and the PCU are documented in their respective Financial Procedures Manuals (FPM). The
UWA FPM was prepared under consultancy by the accounting firm, PriceWaterhouseCoopers. These
procedures are designed to guide activities and ensure accountability for UWA transactions, including those
that are funded by donors. The procedures are intended to ensure that only authorized persons can alter or
establish a new accounting principle, policy, or procedure to be used by the entity. Copies of the manual
were distributed to all the protected areas. UWA's manual will be updated to document procedures
introduced as a result of the new arrangements where they will manage their own Special Account and have
the IDA Credit disbursed using FMRs. The manual for the PCU will be updated to include its
organizational structure and reporting lines, and allocation of financial management responsibilities. The
procedures used in the preparation of the FMRs and the disbursement of the IDA Credit will be the basis
thereof. UWEC has appointed a consultant to write up its FPM. The Manuals will therefore describe
several aspects of the accounting system, including: the major transaction cycles of the project; funds flow
processes; the accounting records, supporting documents, computer files and specific accounts in the
financial statements involved in the processing of transactions; the accounting processes from the initiation
of a transaction to its inclusion in the financial statements; authorization procedures for transactions; the
financial reporting process used to prepare the financial statements; financial and accounting policies for
the Project; and procedures undertaken for the replenishment of the Special Account
The accounts for the three implementing agencies will be prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards on a historical cost basis. Under this basis, income is recognized in the income and
expenditure statement in the year in which it is received and expenditure is recognized in the year in which
it is payable. UWA has an accounting system that has the capability of allowing for the proper recording
of project financial transactions, including the allocation of expenditures in accordance with the respective
components, disbursement categories, and sources of funds. Controls over the preparation and approval of
transactions are documented in the FPM. These ensure that all transactions are correctly made, recorded
and reported upon. A list of accounts codes (Chart of Accounts) exists for the transactions but will should
also be amended to allow for the classification of expenditures and sources and application of fumds
indicated in the Project Agreement. The Chart of accounts should be developed in a way that allows
project costs to be directly related to specific work activities and outputs of the project
- 54 -



Systems of internal control for UWA were designed to ensure that:
every transaction that should have been entered into the accounting system is recorded;
* no unauthorized transactions are recorded;
those transactions that are entered are analyzed and posted correctly;
source programs, which control the operation of the accounting system (original entry and subsequent
analysis and postings), cannot be tampered with;
unauthorized access is denied;
assets of the entity are neither misappropriated nor used in an uneconomical or inefficient fashion;
management policies (in budgets, long-range forecasts etc.) are complied with;
* deviations from plans are noted, investigated and timely responses made;
* financial infornation is communicated in the most effective way so that those entitled to it may
maximize their use of it; and
the financial statements show a true and fair view.
Internal control systems are fully documented, and regularly updated, in the FPM.
Project Documentation
A draft Project Implementation Plan has been prepared and addressed the following areas:
* Inputs and Outputs of financial: information required to track project implementation;
Inputs and Outputs of physical information matched with financial information required;
* Arrangements for recording project impacts, outcomes, outputs, and inputs that are required to assess
project progress toward project objectives.
These will be important ingredients in the preparation of the Monitoring Reports required quarterly under
FMR-based disbursements.
Summary Risk Analysis
The objectives of the project's financial management system are:
to ensure that funds are used only for their intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while
implementing agreed activities;
to enable the preparation of accounting and financial management system that enables management to
monitor the efficient implementation of management; and
* to safeguard the project assets and resources.
The financial management system should also support the project's requests for funding and meet its
reporting obligations to IDA, Government of Uganda and other stakeholders. The table below identifies the
key risks that management may face in achieving these objectives and provides a basis for determining how
management should address these risks.
- 55 -



Risk                 Risk                   Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating                                   .
Staff capacity may not be sufficient to  M  The implementing agencies will be adequately staffed by
implement all the control procedures       appropriately qualified individuals who will receive regular
as intended                                training in procedures
Funds may not used in an efficient  M      Authorization procedures for transactions will be established
and economical way and exclusively         and, together with other internal control procedures, will be
for purposes intended                      documented in the FPMs for each implementing agency
Financial Information may be        N      Formats and periodicity of reporting to be determined.
unreliable                                 Verification of expenditures and of the information contained
in periodic reports to be carried out internally and externally
GOU may be unable to meet its       H      PAMSU will focus on improving cost-effectiveness in all
funding obligations to PAMSU due           agencies as a means to operate within very limited budgets
to budgetary constraints
Ignorance of procedures and         N      Internal control procedures to be documented in the Financial
organizational rules by implementing       Procedures Manuals and these will be widely circulated
entities                   -
Slow speed of delivering resources to  M   Project management will ensure that the established
Implementing Agencies                      procedures will be followed
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible Risk)
Supervision Plan
A supervision mission will be conducted at least every six months. The mission's objectives will include
that of ensuring.that strong financial management systems are maintained for the project throughout its life.
A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurred by implementing agencies and
funded by the IDA Credit remain eligible. The PSR will include a financial management rating for the
component. This will be arrived at by the Country Office financial management specialist after an
appropriate review.
Effectiveness Conditions
As conditions of effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)    The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and UWA;
(b)    All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement have been
fulfilled;
(c)    The Borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting system for the
Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)    The Borrower has employed the independent auditors;
(e)    The Borrower has furnished to the Association the PIP including a financial management plan, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
- 56 -



(f)    The Borrower has established a management information system, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)    The Borrower and UWA have each appointed, for Project implementation, the Financial Manager
and Accountant;
(h)    The Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the Initial Deposit;
(i)    The Borrower and UWA have each established the procurement unit and appointed thereto staff
having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
Gj)    The Borrower has renewed contracts of the Project Coordination Unit staff of the Institutional
Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Component specifSc issues
A description of the assessment of the financial management arrangements for each component follows
below.
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
Flow of funds
Bank accounts
The following bank accounts will be maintained by the PCU:
* A Special Account denominated in US dollars to serve as the main project account into which will be
deposited project implementation fimds from IDA.
* A Project Account denominated in Uganda shillings in which funds are periodically deposited from the
Special account for funding PCU activities and those of the MTrI and DAM.
* A Counterpart Fund Account denominated in Uganda shillings to channel GOU counterpart funds.
The accounts will be maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and their signatories will be
determined and documented in the FPM.
Disbursement offundsfiom PCU to implementing agencies
Funds will be disbursed to the MTTI and DAM on a monthly basis. The imprest will be replenished upon
the submission to the PCU of acceptable accountability for previous advances. There will also be an
option of the PCU making direct payments on behalf of the two institutions.
- 57 -



Detailed financial management procedures
Staffing
Accounting for PCU funds falls under the responsibility of the Project Coordinator. The primary
responsibility for maintaining the project's books of accounts will rest with the project accountant. Written
position descriptions that clearly define duties, responsibilities, lines of supervision, and limits of authority
for all the staff will be drawn up and reflected in the accounting department's Organization Chart. The
duties and responsibilities of the accounting staff will be determined and documented in the Financial
Management Procedures Manual. Cun-ent staffing arrangements will be reassessed in line with the
requirements of the new project and any necessary recruitment carried out. The allocation of
responsibilities should enable the appropriate segregation of duties to ensure proper accountability. An
appropriate training program which will include World Bank financial management and disbursement
procedures will be designed for staff.
Books of accounts
Books of accounts will be set up for the project and regularly maintained to record project transactions.
These will include a general ledger, cashbook and subsidiary ledgers. A proper filing system that allows
authorized users easy access will be set up to ensure that all accounting and supporting documents are
retained on a permanent basis and properly maintained.
Information systems
The PCU maintains its books of accounts using the Pastel accounting software. However, this system
needs to be upgraded to the production of the necessary project financial reports required for report based
disbursements. Accounting staff should also be adequately trained to maintain the upgraded system and
appropriate controls should be instituted to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the
data.
Internal Audit Arrangements
There is no internal audit function within the PCU organizational structure. The M1TI has an Intemal
auditor whose duties include reviewing transactions undertaken by the PCU. The Intemal Auditor reports
directly to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry. Interal audit reports on project transactions address
intemal control deficiencies, or ineffective policies or procedures. Project management will be expected to
correct the deficiencies in a timely manner.
In addition to the intemal monitoring by PAMSU and exteral monitoring by IDA, an independent
consultancy is fielded every year. This review encompasses an examination and evaluation of project
implementation progress and derives key lessons as a basis for improvement of the project objectives. The
review will also encompass financial management aspects of project implementation.
- 58 -



Financial management action plan
Issue               Remedial Action Recommended                        Due Date
Updating Financial  The PCU's Financial Management Procedures Manual   Credit effectiveness
Management          will be updated to clearly describe the delegation and
Procedures Manual   segregation of duties and responsibilities; funds flow
processes, etc.
Staffing            Written position descriptions that clearly define duties,  Credit effectiveness
responsibilities, lines of supervision, and limits of authority
for all the staff will be drawn up and reflected in the
accounting department's Organization Chart. Current
staffing arrangements will be reassessed in line with the
requirements of the new project and any necessary
recruitment carried out.
Reporting           A reporting structure for both intemal management and  Credit effectiveness
Arrangements        external needs should be developed. Reports should
provide financial data that it is possible to link to physical
progress targets. Formats of reports should be determined
and agreed with IDA.
Project Accounting  The PCU's accounting software should be upgraded to  Six months after Credit
System              enable the automatic production of the necessary project  effectiveness
financial reports required for report based disbursements.
Chart of Accounts   A Chart of Accounts should be designed to provide  Credit effectiveness
information that reflects type of project, sources of fumds,
and the relevant expenditure accounts that is consistent
with expenditure categories in the DCA, project
components and sub-components and activities.
Training and        Training program be developed for scaling up skills for the  Six months after Credit
Development of      accounting staff in the PCU, the MTTI and the DAM.  Effectiveness
Accounting Staff
Terms of Reference  Temns of Reference for the audit of the project's financial  Middle of the first year of
for the extemal     statements should be prepared.                     project implementation
auditors                                                              I                         I
UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY
Overall policy guidance
Uganda Wildlife Authority was established in 1996 and is under the general supervision of the Minister of
Tourism, Trade and Industry. The governing body is the Board of Trustees appointed by the Minister in
accordance with the Schedule to the Uganda Wildlife Statute.
Planning, budgeting and approval of workplans
UWA prepares annual budgets by identifying activities to be carried out during the year and allocating
priorities to these activities. Each of the Authority's departments and Protected Areas is involved in this
process.
- 59 -



Monitoring of budget performance is done on a quarterly basis, with actual results being compared to
budgeted quarterly estimates. A narrative report is prepared which explains the existence of the variances.
These reports are submitted to a management committee and further to the Finance and Audit Committee of
the Board of Trustees.
Flow of funds
Bank accounts
The following bank accounts will be maintained for the Project and managed by the UWA:
* Special Account denominated in US dollars to be used for the portion of the IDA Credit disbursed to
fund activities implemented by the UWA.
Project account denominated in Uganda Shillings in which funds will be periodically deposited from the
Special account for funding local currency transactions and for channeling GOU counterpart funds.
A Special Account denominated in US dollars to serve as the main project account into which will be
deposited project implementation funds from the GEF.
The accounts will be maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and their signatories will be
determined and documented in the FPM.
Disbursement of funds to implementing agencies
Funds will be disbursed to the protected areas implementing activities under the project on an imprest basis.
The advances will be based on approved workplans and forecasts. Replenishments will be made upon the
submission of accountability statements and supporting documentation.
Detailed financial management procedures
ICB-PAMSU supported a number of measures to strengthen the institutional capacity of UWA. These
included: the appointment of an internationally recruited Executive Director on a three year contract to
oversee UWA's development, the provision of an institutional contractor to develop financial management
systems; the development of a training plan and the development of a strategic plan.
Staffing
Adequate staffing arrangements are in place to ensure that UWA has appropriately qualified and
experienced staff. Written position descriptions that clearly define duties, responsibilities, lines of
supervision, and limits of authority for all of the officers, managers, and staff will be drawn up and
reflected in the accounting department's Organization Chart The Financial Services department is headed
by a Director, reporting to the Executive Director. The Director is a fully qualifies accountant The
departrnent also is staffed by a Financial Accountant, a Management Accountant, a cashier and accounts
assistants. The allocation of responsibilities enables appropriate segregation of duties to ensure proper
accountability.
The staff were trained in the UWA's procedures when the FPM consultancy was conducted. An
appropriate program which will include World Bank financial management procedures will be designed as
further training for staff.
- 60 -



Books of accounts
Books of accounts exist and regularly maintained to record project transactions. These include a general
ledger, cashbook and subsidiary ledgers. A proper filing system that allows authorized users easy access is
also maintained to ensure that all accounting and supporting documents are retained on a permanent basis
and properly maintained.
Each supported community subproject comrnittee will keep the following books accounts: a simplified
cashbook and/or ledger; a register for procured goods; and a statemnent of community contribution.
Original documents of accountability for all activities implemented by the Protected Areas are maintained
at the UWA Headquarters.
Information systems
The accounting system for UWA is computerized and is based in the SunSystems Accounting software. It
enables the production of relevant project financial reports. Training of accounting staff in the use of this
system is continuing, and appropriate controls have been instituted to safeguard the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of the data.
Internal Audit Arrangements
As an important part of the ongoing monitoring of the system of internal controls, the internal audit
function provides an independent assessment of the adequacy of, and compliance with, the established
controls and procedures. The Internal Auditor reports to the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of
Trustees through the Executive Director. The frequency and extent of internal audit reviews and testing of
the internal controls is consistent with the nature, complexity, and risk of UWA's activities. The Internal
auditor plays a role in determining compliance with intemal control procedures by the Protected Areas in
the management and use of UWA funds.
Internal audit reports on project transactions will address intemal control deficiencies, or ineffective
policies or procedures. Project management will be expected to correct the deficiencies in a timely manner.
In addition to the internal monitoring by PAMSU and external monitoring by IDA, an independent
consultancy is fielded every year. This review encompasses an examination and evaluation of project
implementation progress and derives key lessons as a basis for improvement of the project objectives. The
review will also encompass financial management aspects of project implementation.
-61 -



Financial management action plan
Issue               Remedial Action Recommended                       Due Date
Documentation of    The Financial Procedures Manual will be amended   Credit effectiveness
Financial           describing accounting systems and procedures for the
Management          project. The Manual should include funds flow processes,
procedures          etc.
Reporting           Formats of reports should be determined and agreed with  Credit effectiveness
Arrangements        IDA.
Chart of Accounts   UWA's Chart of Accounts should be amended to provide  Credit effectiveness
information that reflects type of project, sources of funds,
and the relevant expenditure accounts that is consistent
with expenditure categories in the DCA, project
components and sub-components and activities.
Training and        UWA's training program for accounting staff in UWA,  Six months after Credit
Development of      covering World Bank financial management policies and  effectiveness
Accounting Staff    procedures, should be completed.
Terms of Reference  Terms of Reference for the audit of the project's financial  Middle of the first year of
for the external    statements should be prepared.                    project implementation
auditors           I_I_I
UGANDA WILDLIFE EDUCATION CENTRE
Planning, budgeting and approval of workplans
UWEC prepares annual budgets by identifying activities to be carried out during the year and allocating
priorities to these activities. Each of UWEC's departments is involved in this process.
Monitoring of budget performance is done on a quarterly basis, with actual results being compared to
budgeted quarterly estimates. A narrative report is prepared which explains the existence of the variances.
These reports are submitted to a management committee and further to the Finance Committee and the
Operational Committees of the Board of Trustees.
Flow of funds
Bank accounts
The following bank accounts will be maintained by UWEC:
* A Special Account denominated in US dollars to serve as the main project account into which will be
deposited project implementation funds from GEF.
* A Central Project Account denominated in Uganda shillings in which funds are periodically deposited
from the Special account for funding project transactions.
* A Counterpart Fund Account denominated in Uganda shillings to channel GOU counterpart funds.
The accounts will be maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and their signatories will be
determined and documented in the FPM.
- 62 -



In addition to these, every participating district shall establish a separate bank account for the project to be
used exclusively for project funds in accordance with Local Government regulations. NGOs/CBOs and
CPMCs will also be required to open bank accounts purposely for project funds.
Detailed financial management procedures
Staffing
Adequate staffing arrangements will be put in place to ensure that UWEC has appropriately qualified and
experienced staff. Written position descriptions that clearly define duties, responsibilities, lines of
supervision, and limits of authority for all of the officers, managers, and staff will be drawn up and
reflected in the accounting department's Organization Chart. The duties and responsibilities of the
accounting staff will be determined and documented.
An appropriate training program which will include World Bank financial management procedures will be
designed for staff. The allocation of responsibilities should enable the appropriate segregation of duties to
ensure proper accountability.
Books of accounts
Books of accounts will be set up and regularly maintained to record project transactions. These will
include a general ledger, cashbook and subsidiary ledgers. A proper filing system that allows authorized
users easy access will be set up to ensure that all accounting and supporting documents are retained on a
permanent basis and properly maintained.
Information systems
The accounting system for UWEC shall be computerized. It will enable the production of the necessary
project financial reports. Accounting staff will be adequately trained to maintain the system and
appropriate controls will be instituted to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data.
Audit Arrangements
There is no intemal audit function within the UWEC organizational structure. This is satisfactory given
the small number of transactions that are undertaken by the UWEC. However, the option to contract out
internal audit services, especially where the need for these is identified, is retained by the UWEC
management.
- 63 -



Financial management action plan
Issue               Remedial Action Recommended                        Due Date
Documentation of    A Financial Procedures Manual will be developed    Credit effectiveness
Financial           describing accounting systems and procedures for the
Management          project. The Manual should include accounting basis,
procedures          policies, standards and guidance for intemal control and
accounting with clear delegation and segregation of duties;
funds flow processes, budgeting and budgetary control
procedures, etc.
Reporting           A reporting structure for both intemal management and  Credit effectiveness
Arrangements        extenal needs should be developed. Reports should
provide financial data that it is possible to link to physical
progress targets. Formats of reports should be determined
and agreed with IDA.
Project Accounting  There should be a fully integrated computer based system  Credit effectiveness
System              to keep track, collect and provide information on
sanctioned budgets, procurement, expenditures, sources of
funds and outputs, measured by monitoring indicators.
Chart of Accounts   UWEC's Chart of Accounts should be amended to provide  Credit effectiveness
infommation that reflects type of project, sources of funds,
and the relevant expenditure accounts that is consistent
with expenditure categories in the DCA, project
components and sub-components and activities.
Training and        A suitable training program be developed for scaling up  By Credit effectiveness
Development of      skills for the accounting staff in UWEC, and should cover
Accounting Staff    World Bank financial management policies and
procedures.
Temis of Reference  Terms of Reference for the audit of the project's financial  Middle of the first year of
for the extemal     statements should be prepared.                     project implementation
auditors
-64 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in February 2001. The CPAR makes
six major recommendations: (a) revising the existing procurement regulations to make them more
transparent, efficient and economic; (b) abolishing the current Central Tender Board (CTB) and creating a
procurement regulatory body, the National Procurement Policy Unit (NPPU) - Renamed the Reformed
Central Tender Board (RCTB); (c) creating contract committees in all procuring entities; (d) creating
procurement units in all procuring entities; (e) employing procurement agents to support all those
procurement entities without adequate capacity; and (f) promulgating a procurement law based on the
UNCITRAL model.
hnplementation of the above recommendations started officially on March 1, 200 1, when new Procurement
Regulations, "The Public Finance (Procurement) Regulations, 2000", became effective. On the same day,
the CTB ceased to exist in its old form with its functions being taken over by contract committees
established in each ministry/procuring entity. Each procuring entity is now completely responsible and
accountable for all its procurement. The RCTB should have been operational on the same day but there
were delays in appointing the Board and recruiting top officials of the Secretariat. The RCTB was fully
operational on September 1, 2001. A new procurement bill has been drafted and presented to Parliament
In the meantime, the new Regulations will continue as the legal instrument for controlling procurement in
public entities. Implementation of the recommendations started under PRSCI and is continuing under
PRSC2.
The CPAR identified the lack of adequate procurement capacity as the single most important issue in
public sector procurement in Uganda. This has been confirmed in another study carried out in 70
procuring entities at Central and Local Govemment level. One of the interim solutions that is suggested in
the CPAR is the employment of consultants to assist weak procurement units.
Procurement of all IDA- and GEF-financed works, goods, and services under the project will be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services
by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded contracts in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
in September 1997 and January 1999). The appropriate World Bank standard bidding documents will be
used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) with any
appropriate modifications. The World Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for the
selection of consultants.
The aggregate amount allocated for procurement of works, goods and consultancy services contracts under
the project is US$22.8 million consisting of US$14.1 million for works, US$5.4 million for goods, and
US$3.3 million for services contracts. The total allocation for works will finance (a) construction of
rangers' houses and field offices in the national parks, a head office block for UWA in Kampala,
rehabilitation of roads in the national parks, and demarcation of the boundaries of the national parks, and
(b) rehabilitation of internal roads at the UWEC, and (c) minor rehabilitation works at DAM. Goods worth
-65 -



US$13.4 million will be procured under the UWA, US$0.5 million under UWEC, and US$0.2 milion
under the MITI and DAM sub-components. The shares of the components in the consultancy services
budget (US$3.3 million) will be US$2.0 million for UWA, US$0.3 million for UWEC, US$0.5 million for
MTTI and DAM, and US$0.5 million for PCU.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing has been included to allow reimbursement for expenditures made prior to the signing
date. The retroactive financing clause will cover expenditures made after June 30, 2002 and before the
signing of the Agreement for the IDA Credit and GEF Grant as follows: IDA Credit - in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 50,000, and SDR 80,000 may be made in respect of
Consultants Services Category 3a and 3b, and equivalent of SDR 300,000 and SDR 20,000 may be made
in respect of Operating Costs Category 5a and 5b; GEF Grant - in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 100,000 may be made in respect of Operating Costs Category 5b.
Institutional Arrangement
The project procurement will be carried out as follows: UWA and UWEC will separately be responsible for
the inplementation of their requirements while MNTI will be in charge of procurement of goods, works and
services under the MITTI and DAM components. However, during the first two and a half years of the
project, these component implementing agencies will execute their procurement decisions under the
guidance and close supervision of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). UWA, UWEC, MMTI and DAM
will individually prepare lists of their annual requirements and cost estimates of contracts. PCU will assist
and supervise the three component implementing agencies in all stages of the procurement process of
contracts. In addition, it will be PCU's contractual obligation to build the necessary capacity in these
agencies so that the agencies become self-reliant in the implementation of their procurement requirements
by the end of PCU's contract period.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works
Works estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured through ICB. NCB
procedures will be followed in awarding contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract Works contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent per contract will be awarded through
solicitation of quotations, in writing, from at least three qualified contractors.
Rehabilitation of roads within national parks may be carried out by UWA through the Force Account
procedures. Before the commencement of the rehabilitation of roads, UWA will submit to the Bank for
review the implementation plan of the activities, and the breakdown of the costs, showing the inputs of
UWA and related costs, and the inputs that UWA would be sourcing from the market From its share in
the civil works budget, UWEC may carry out minor civil works, where in-house capacity exists, through
the Force Account procedures. Like UWA, UWEC will forward the cost estimate of the required inputs in
the road rehabilitation works.
- 66 -



Goods
Procurement under each component will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000
equivalent or more and will be procured through ICB procedures.
Goods contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured through ICB.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amnount of
US$0.8 million equivalent will be procured through NCB procedures that are acceptable to IDA.
Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.5 million equivalent may be procured through National Shopping procedures for goods available in
the local market and/or through Intemnational Shopping procedures for goods that cannot be supplied within
the country.
Services
Except as detailed below, consulting services will be selected through competition among qualified
short-listed firms based on Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.
Consultant Services estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$870,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 arid 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of US$220,000
equivalent may be selected through Least-Cost Selection as prescribed in paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1-5.3 of Section V
of the Consultant Guidelines.
In exceptional cases that meet the conditions set forth in paragraphs 3.8-3.11 of Section Ell of the
Consultant Guidelines, consultancy services estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000
may be procured on single-source basis subject to prior clearance with the Bank. An agreed list of the TA
staff of the PCU for the ICB-PAMSU may be recruited under the PAMSU project on single-source basis.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists
for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less may be comprised entirely of national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Advertising
A General Procurement Notice for the project will be prepared and submitted to IDA for clearance and
publication in the United Nations Development Business immediately after negotiations. The GPN will be
updated at least once a year and submitted to IDA for review.
- 67 -



Procurement Plan
With the assistance of PCU, the three component implementing agencies have completed, and agreed with
IDA their respective procurement plans for the first year, and indicative plans for subsequent years of the
project. The plans include relevant information on works, goods and consulting services as well as the
timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedules will be updated every
quarter and submitted to IDA which will regularly review them during project supervision. The
procurement plans have been included in the PIP.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICi             NCB          Other2       N.B1F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           14.84           0.57          0.22         0.00       15.63
(13.36)         (0.51)        (0.19)       (0.00)     (14.06)
2. Goods                            4.40           0.72          0.31         0.00        5.43
(4.35)          (0.71)       (0.28)       (0.00)      (5.34)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          3.63         0.00        3.63
(0.00)          (0.00)       (3.33)       (0.00)      (3.33)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Training                            0.00           0.00          1.46         0.00        1.46
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.46)       (0.00)      (1.46)
Operating Costs                     0.00           0.00          11.75        0.00        11.75
(0.00)         (0.00)        (10.81)      (0.00)      (10.81)
Total                            19.24           1.29         17.37        0.00        37.90
(17.71)         (1.22)        (16.07)      (0.00)     (35.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local goverrnent
units.
-68 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Seleetlon Method
Consumt Semites
vpendltr Category   QCBS     QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ      Other  N.B.F. TotaldCost
A. Firms              1.40    0.00    0.00    0.26    1.00    0.00    0.00     2.66
(1.36)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.20)  (0.87)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.43)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00     1.10
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.00)  (0.00)   (1.00)
Total  1.40    0.00    0.00    0.26    1.00    1.10    0.00     3.76
1 (1.36)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.20)  (0.87)  (1.00)  (0.00)   (3.43)
1\ Including confingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant.
- 69 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              rrocurememn             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ tlousands)            Method                (US$ mHlions)
1. Works                      >=200,000                 ICB                  Prior Review
<200,000                  NCB                  Post Review
<50,000                Quotations             Post Review
2. Goods                      >=100,000                  ICB                 Prior Review
<100,000                  NCB                  Post Review
<=30,000                  N/IS                 Post Review
3. Services
Firms        >=l00,000                 QCBS                  Prior Review
<100,000                   CQ                  Post Review
<=50,000                  LCS                  Post Review
Single Source           Prior Review
Individuals         >=50,000                   IC                  Prior Review
<50,000                    IC                  Post Review
Single Source            Prior Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
An assessment of the individual procurement capacities of the individual implementing agencies has been
conducted, and a report has been prepared. The report indicates "High" risk mainly because of
non-existence of procurement units and procurement proficient staff at the implementing agencies.
However, the assessment concludes that the following actions would reduce the procurement risk:
(1)  Creation and staffing of procurement units in each of the implementing agencies; and
(2) Renewal of the contracts of the ICB-PAMSU Project Coordination Unit staff and acceptance of PCU
staff to continue providing technical assistance and on-the-job training to the staff of the
implementing agencies for the first two and a half years of the project.
It is critical that the above actions are carried out before Credit Effectiveness.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit/grant proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of the Credit/Grant proceeds is shown in Table C and C1. Disbursements will be against
the five main expenditure categories: Civil works; Goods, Equipment and Vehicles; Consultants' Services;
Training and Operating Costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount In        Financing Percentage
USS
Civil Works                                         100% of foreign
(a) Under Part A of the Project        10,303,200   expenditures and 90% of
(b) Under Parts C and D of the Project   144,900    local expenditures
Goods, Equipment and Vehicles                       100% of foreign
(a) Under Part A of the Project         3,942,900   expenditures and 90% of
(b) Under Parts C and D of the Project   556,200    local expenditures
Consultants' Services including audit               90%
fees                                    1,501,200
(a) Under Part A of the Project          927,000
(b) Under Parts C and D of the Project
Training                                            90%
(a) Under Part A of the Project           68,400
(b) Under Parts C and D of the Project   327,600
Operating Costs                                     90%
(a) Under Part A of the Project         5,695,200
(b) Under Parts C and D of the Project   833,400
Unallocated                            2,700,000
Total Project Costs                    27,000,000
- 71 -



Table Cl: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount In US$      Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                      100% of foreign
(a) Under Part A of the Project    1,782,000    expenditures and 90% of
(b) Under Part B of the Project     425,700     local expenditures
Goods, Equipment and Vehicles                    100% of foreign
(a) Under Part A of the Project      51,300     expenditures and 90% of
(b) Under Part B of the Project     279,000     local expenditures
Consultants' Services including                  100%
audit fees                          296,100
(a) Under Part A of the Project     270,000
(b) Under Part B of the Project
Training                                         100%
(a) Under Part A of the Project     792,000
(b) Under Part B of the Project      76,500
Operating Costs                                 90%
(a) Under Part A of the Project     819,900
(b) Under Part B of the Project   2,407,500
Unallocated                         800,000
Total Project Costs               8,000,000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the GEF Grant will be fully documented by UWEC except for
expenditures against contracts (i) with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less for works, goods and
consulting firms; (ii) contracts with an estimated value of US$50,000 or less for individual consultants; and
(iii) all operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
Documents supporting these expenditures will be retained by UWEC and will be available for review upon
request by the Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
The project implementation agencies including UWEC will, dn quarterly basis, submit Financial
Monitoring Reports as discussed during the project appraisal and Credit negotiations.
Use of Report-based Disbursement method
In addition to the basic FMRs, UWA and the PCU will submit the required supporting documentation for
report-based disbursements, which will include:
A. Source of supply information
For contracts above the prior review threshold:
(i) the contactor/consultant's name, nationality, and Zip code, where applicable
(ii) the amount disbursed under each contract
- 72 -



For contacts below the prior review threshold
aggregate disbursements by country of supply
Breakdown of aggregate disbursements by legal disbursement category and disbursement percentage
B. Special Account reconciliation statement
C. Forecast of expenditures for the next two FMR reporting periods
Special account:
To facilitate disbursernents, the Government of Uganda will establish Special, Project and Advance
Accounts in commercial bank acceptable to IDA, as follows:
IDA                           GEF
SA        Advance     Project      SA        Advance     Project
Account     Account                Account     Account
(C/Fund)                           (C/Fund)
(in USD)  (in UGSH)   (in UGSH)    (in USD)  (in UGSH)   (in UGSH)
MTl (PCU)            I          1            1          -         -
UWEC                 -          -           -           I         I            I
UWA                  I                                  1
Total                2          2           1           2         1            1
Advances to MlI and DAM by PCU will be on monthly basis using the imprest account procedure. The
imprest will be replenished upon submission of acceptable accountability for previous advances. The PCU
will have the option of making direct payments on behalf of the two institutions.
Each participating district, NGO/CBO, and CPMC will establish and maintain separate bank accounts
for the project,
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA. Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Acttial
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                         07/23/2001
Appraisal mission departure                                                  11/26/2001
Negotiations                                                                04/23/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/03/2002
Prepared by:
Project Coordination Unit
Uganda Wildlife Authority
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Nathalie W. Johnson               Environmental Specialist
Jean-Michel Pavy                  Peer Reviewer
Christine E. Cornelius            Operations Officer
Joseph M. Kizito                  Financial Management Specialist
Jay Wysocki                       M&E Specialist
Jack Ruitenbeck                   Economist
Richard A. Cambridge              Operations Adviser
Marius Koen                       Financial Management Specialist
Agi Kiss                          Lead Ecologist
Reynaldo Castro                   Operations Analyst
Dahir Warsame                     Procurement Specialist
Rogati A. Kayani                  Lead Procurement Specialist
Marie Claire Li Tin Yue           Program Assistant
- 74 -



Annex,8: Documents In the Project File*
UGANDA Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
02-May-2002
DWfrenoa betwn expeedn
end anil
Orginal Amount In USS MDiorts                              disbusemenwt
Projed ID     FY    Purpose                                     IBFD         IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undhsb.      Orig   Fmm Ravd
P065436       2002 2ND PHASE OF THE RD. DEVELOPMENT                  0.00     64.52      0.00       0.00      0.00      63.55      3.98      0.00
P059996       2002 PROGRAM                                           0.00     49.15      0.00       0.00      0.00     47.62       0.00      0.00
P002984       2002 Enwgy for Rudi Trandosfmauon PlWed                0.00     62.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      60.32      3.29      0.00
P074078       2002 UG FOURTH POWER PROJECT                           0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       5.00      0.00      0.00
P050439       2001 Makers Piot DeBni Servic De9vey                   0.00     48.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      43.15     25.46      0.00
P044695       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTrLITY SECTOR REFORM             0.00     45.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      43.66      0.15      0.00
P070627       2001 Nasonal Agdc. Advisory Sevices Prn*               0.00     20.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      14.21     -0.98      0.00
P072482       2001 Rg9 Trsde Fac. - Ugande                           0.00     47.50       0.00      0.00      0.00      45.19     16.25      0.00
P073089       2001 HIVIAJDS Coror Projed                             0.00     22.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      19.69      6.66      0.00
P044879       2000 EMCBP 11                                          0.00     34.04       000       0.00      0.00      25.30     17.16      0.00
P002992       2000 Second Ecnomic and Fln. Mgrt. Pret                0.00     80.90       0.00      0.00      0.00      45.16    -29.12      0.00
P059223        1999 LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                           0.00     22.40       0.00      0.00      0.00      12.65     14.22      0.00
P002941        1999 NAKlWBO CHANNEL REH                              0.00     12.40       0.00      2.00      0.00       1.48      -0.17     -1.04
P059127        1999 ICa-PAMSU                                        0.00     26.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      16.01      7.04      0.00
P002970        1999 AGRIQRES & TRNG. 11                              0-00     90.98       0.00      0.00      0.00      71.00     2726       4.59
P057007        1998 ROADSDEVTPROGRAM                                 0.00     27.60       0.00      0.00     18.98       5.62     24.25      0.59
P040551        1998 EL NINO EMERG RD REP                             0.00     34.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      13.25      5.04      0.00
P049543        1996 NUTRIT.CHILD DEV                                 0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      18.62     21.05       1.23
P048836        1997 ROAD SECTANST.SUPP                               0.00     12.10       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.53      1.85       0.00
P048870        1997 La. Vido Enw.                                    0.00      9.80       0.00      9.80      0.00       2.18      2.5        0.00
P035834        1996 LAKEVICTORIA ENV.                                0.00     12.30       0.00      0.00      2.18       1.18      4.67       1.92
P002976        1995 PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                             0.00     38.40       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.77      3.22       0.00
P002971        1995 INST. CAPAClTY BLDG                              0.00     45.00       000       0.00      0.00       0.33      Z23        0.00
P002963        1994 DSTRICT HEALTH                                   0.00     50.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.67       1.53      0.00
P002957        1994 SEXUALTRANS.IN                                   0.00     42.30       0.00      o.w        0.00      Z12       S14        0.00
SMALL TOWNS WATER
Total:       0.00     929.89       0.00   11.80       19.16     583.13     16Z76       7.29
-76-



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996               AEF Agro Mgrnt               0.60   0.40    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40    0.00    0.00
1992               AEF Clovergem                0.84   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Conrad Plaza             0.94   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Exec. Invmnnt            0.81   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Gomba                    1.40    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               AEF Kabojja                  0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.35    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Kampala Flwr             0.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Kasambyn                 0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
AEF Kiwa 11                  0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.09    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               AEF Ladoto                   0.80    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF LongFreight              0.80    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               AEF Mosa Court               0.40    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.40    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEFNileRoses                 0.16    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               AEF Rainbow                  0.79    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEFRwenzori                  0.17    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               AEF Skyblue                  0.51    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF White Nile               0.22    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Wstem Hgh                0.50    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               CelTel Uganda                3.00    0.70    0.00   0.00    3.00    0.70    0.00    0.00
1994/00            DFCU                         0.00    0.60    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
0/84/92            DFCU LEASING                 0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1995/96            Jubilee                      0.00    0.10    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1993               Kasese Cobalt                9.33    3.60    0.00   0.00    9.33    3.60    0.00    0.00
1996               Tilda Rice                   2.05    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.55    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               Uganda Sugar                 4.02    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.02    0.00     0.00   0.00
1983
Total Portfolio:       29.87    5.40    0.00    0.00   25.93    5.40    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002              AEF Makss                        1.35     0.00     0.00      0.00
2002              Bujagali                       60.00      0.00     0.00    40.00
Total Pending Commitment:      61.35     0.00      0.00    40.00
- 77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA. Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Uganda      Africa  Income      Developmentdiamond-
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      22.2       659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Aties method, USS)                   300        480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      6.8       313     1.030
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (Xl                                        3.0       2.6       1.9
Labor force (Xl                                       2.7       2.6       2.4      NI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (lataet year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)  35
Urban population (IX of totel population)             13         34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      42         47       59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)              97        92        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)            26          ..       ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (1 of population)   52        55       76
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                  38         38       38
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  122        78       96                  Uganda
Male                                               129         85      102               - Low-income group
Female                                              114        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bililons)                                    4.3       6.4       6.2
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                        12.7      16.4      18.1                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                     7.2      11.3      10.1
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                            0.6       4.7       2.6
Gross national savInqs/GDP                            0.6      10.3      10.6
Current account balance/GDP                         -10.0     -11.6     -13.9     Domestic                   Investment
Interest paymentalGDP                                  ..       0.6       0.7     savings
Total deWbGDP                                        51.2      63.7      59.1
Total debt servicelexports                           80.2      23.7      25.5
Present value of debt/GDP                               ..     27.3      15.9
Present value of debtVexports                          ..     225.3     146.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.1      7.1      7.5       4.4       6.3                  Uganda
GDP percapita                       1.3      3.9      4.5       1.1       3.8             --    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.0     15.4     31.3      -0.7       6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1990      1999      2000     Growth of Invtetrnt and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                         0-
Agriculture                                          56.6      44.4      42.5
Industry                                             11.1      17.8      19.1     4        0
Manufacturing                                        5.7       8.7       9.1    120
Services                                             32.4      37.8      38.4          ___                           j
Private consumption                                  91.9      85.4      86.9    *20     95   so    97   go    99    oo
General govemment consumption                         7.5       9.9      10.5                    GD1          GDP
Imports of goods and services                        19.4      23.1      25.6
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.3      3.7       8.9       4.1
Industry                                     6.8     12.3       9.3       6.5    .0
Manufacturina                               4.8     13.6      11.7       1.9    2.
Services                                     3.9      7.9       7.2       5.3
Private consumption                          3.9      7.5      17.3       0.9     0                            99   oo
General govemment consumption                1.7      6.4      -4.5       4.6    20
Gross domestic Investment                   11.2     10.1      14.1      30.5               a.pons       *0   Imports
Imports of goods and services                5.9     13.2      47.8       6.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates. Uganda data are In fiscal year. 1999 refers to 1998/99; 2000 refers to 1999100.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrv (In bold) comPared with its Income-aroup averaoe. If data are missinag the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 78 -



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1990      1999     2000      Infation %)
Domestic oicoes
(% change)                                                                      15
Consumer prices                                      45.5                                                -0 2 6 3 10
Implicit GDP deflator                                44.4       4.2      3.0
Government flnance
(X of GDP, Includes current grants)                                              o                  9
Current revenue                                       6.8      10.9     10.8       i9
Current budget balance                               -0.3       0.9      0.4           '-      P deflator 4CP
Overall surplus/defidct                              -5.9      -5.9     -9.0
TRADE
(USS millions)                                      1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exworts (fob)                                  210       549       439     2.000
Coffee                                              159       307      187
Cotton                                                        I1       23
Total Imports (clf)                                  584      1.392    1,513     1aos
Food                                                                                  e
Fuel and energy                                      78       108      143      so:
Capital ooods                                         ..       ..        ..
Export Price Index (1995=100)                         58        87        58           o    95   90  Sy   Os   n     o
Import price Index (1995 100)                         83        103      104                *Exports     *Importa
Terms of trade (19956100)                             67        65        56
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                      1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                        246       726       626      o
Imports of ooods and services                        676      1,834    1985
Resource balance                                    -430     -1,107   -1,359
Net income                                            -77      -14       -15
Not current transfers                                 78       375       513                   _ 11111
Current account balance                             -429      -746      -861     10
FInancing Items (net)                                419       780       846
Chanoes In net reserves                               10       .33        15 i    -s
memo:
Reserves Induding oold (US$ millions)                 35       748       719
ConversIon rate (DEC, locallUS$)                    319.6   1,362.0   1,511.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                2.202     4,078    3.668
IBRD                                                21         0         0                 F: 21 G 117
IDA                                                805      2.043    2.115           E: 53 
Totaldebtservice                                     197        184      172
IBRD                                                 7         0         0
IDA                                                  6        27        29
Composition of net resource flows                                                   D: s1a         ~8:2.1111
Official grants                                    153       277       312
Official creditors                                           195       169
Private creditors                                    0         4        11            C:35W
Foreign direct Investment                            6       230       248
World Bank Program
Commitments                                        227       165       107     A - IBRD                   E - BIlateral
Disbursements                                      165       132       190     a - IDA  D - Other mutblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                 6        13        14     C- IMF                     G-Short-term
Net flows                                          159       119       176
Interest payments                                    7        14        15
Not transfers                                      152       104       161
Development Economics                                                                                             9t13t01
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 11
Threats and Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss and Mitigating Actions
Uganda: Protected Areas Management And Sustainable Use Project
Critical Threats            Root Causes                Current Situation         Solution (GEF Intervention)
1. Integrty of          * 20 years of civil war and  1.1 A new proposed PA system  * Finance boundary marking
Protected Areas in      insufficient fimding for PA  has been passed by Parliament,  exercise for all PAs where
Uganda.                 management resulted in      after six years of planning.   required.
2. Lack of Awareness of  extensive encroachmnent,                                  * Awareness bidn    n
value of PAs and roles  ignorance of PA boundaries   1.2 This proposal excises many  traieng   building and
of respective           and ignorance of the role of  areas that have been settled and  training of decentralised
gtakeholders.           UWA and central government.  dissolves conflicts resulting from  goverment officers (district,
stakeholders.                       . ~~~~~~~70,000 people previously living  sb-county and parish levels)
* Extensive rural poverty and  .   '.                      where their areas of
3CoInsuffideon          deplefion of naturl resources  iside PAs.                  responsibility include PA systems
Educatlon.              outside PAs.                                               and communities around the PAs.
4. Absence of apolicy   * Government has placed less  created at the demand of the  * Support and advice for
Absence of a policy     emphasis on an integrated   respective districts and       sustainable community-based
and stratey for         approach to sustainable     communities.                   biodiversity conservation and
sustainable and         biodiversity conservation than                             management initiatives that will
management of PAs.      for example, the Plan for the  2.1 The recent establishment of  be encouraged through policy and
Modemisation of Agriculture.  decentralised government units in  strategic interventions.
* There is a lack of awareness  Uganda has created a need for  * Support for Uganda Wildlife
for the economic opportunities  to fully integrate PAs into district  Education Centre and wildlife
that exist through the      level plaing for ina  sct      Clubs of Uganda to continue and
preservation of unique and  and education complementarity.  strengthen their roles in
globally threatened ecosystems                             conservation education and
(tourism, for example).     3.1 The existence of UWEC is   awareness building for the
* Central management and    an opportunity for education and  general public and especially
decision making does irivolve  awareness building.         school children.
sufficient local participation,                            * Support ongoing strategy and
ergo ownership and          3.2 The existence of the       policy formulation towards
responsibility for resources.  nationwide network of Wildlife  sustainable and collaborative PA
Clubs of Uganda is an          management.
opportunity that can be utilized to
sensitise the nation on
conservation education especially
in rnual areas where WCU
already has a presence.
4.1 Current wholly centrahised
PA management systems are not
sustainable.
- 80 -



NAME OF       ECOSYSTEM      SIZE. OUTSTANDING        MAIN THREATS             GEF            GEF MITIGATION
SITE                      Q    )     FEATURE                           JUSTIFICATION           ACTIONS
Queen Elizabeth Savannah       2,461  * Kazinga Channel * Poaching        o Contains the Lake  * Improve law
N.P and        woodlands with         * Crater Lake     * Encroachment    George Ramsar Site  enforcement through
adjacent buffer Rift Valley           * Giant forest hogs * Fishing village  * Biosphere Reserve  regular patrols
Zone                                  * Many species of  expanding        * Constitute the only  * Awareness building
water birds                         fully protected parts of and community based
* Hippos, etc                       the ecosystem mosaic  conservation activities
with highest known  * Boundary demarcation
Mammalian carrying
capacity in the world
Kidepo Valley  Savannah         1,442 * Cheetah         * Poaching        e Represents the    * Awareness building
N.P and        woodland               * Ostrich         * Wild fires      Karamoja/Turkana Dry community based
adjacent buffer                       * The Kidepo Valley                 mountain ecosystem  conservation activities
zone                                  with Borassus palm                  e Regional endemism  * Creating fire brakes at
forest                              e Stop over for      selected strategic
* Kudu                              palacarctic bird    locations around the Park
migrants            * Better law enforcement
through regular patrols
Lake Mburo    Savannah          260   * Zebra           * Boundary        * Supports 3 Red data * Awareness building
N.P. and                              * Impala          uncertainty       book species of birds  and country based
adjacent buffer                       * Rare birds e.g.  * Encroachment   * Consensus part of  conservation
zone                                  Narina's Trogon   * Animal Grazing  the unique          activities/initiatives
* Eland           * Poaching        inter-lacustrine     * Boundary demarcation
* Roan Antelope                     grassland ecosystem  * Improved law
* Included in the   empowerment through
IUCN's endangered   regular patrols
parks of the world
Bwindi Imp.   Afro Montane      331   * Mountain Forest ** Pit Sawing     * World Heritage site In addition to Bwindi
N.P. and      Forest                  Rare Birds        * Wildfires       * One of the last   Trust Support, which
adjacent buffer                       * Chimpanzee      * Encroachment    habitats for the worlds covers mainly:-
zone                                                    * Boundary       largest remaining    - General Park
uncertainties with  mountain gorilla  Management support
Zaire crop raiding  population         - Conservation awareness
building and community
based initiatives, and
- Ecological monitoring
& research
the Project will support
the following:-
* Boundary demarcation
* Support visitor centre
establishment and initial
__operational aspects.
Mgahinga      Afro Montane       27   * Mountain Gorilla * Encroachment   * One of the few           -DITT0-
Gorilla N.P. and Forest               * Golden Cat      * Pit sawing      habitat for the worlds
adjacent buffer                                         * Grazing         remaining mountain
zone                                                    * Crop raiding    gorilla population
* Smuggling of
animals through the
parks
* Poaching
* Illegal removal of
products
-81 -



Kibale N.P.   Low altitude     983   * Chimpanzee     * Poaching        * Supports nine    * Support the
and adjacent  Tropical high          * Other primate  * Pit sawing      species of animals  implementation of
buffer zone   Forest                                  * Saw milling     considered to be   sustainable utilisation of
* Problem animals  globally threatened  recourses in the park
* Illegal forest  * Has the highest  through the multiple use
product removal   primate density in the  zones approach outlined
* Wildfires       world              in the management plan
* Livestock grazing                  * Improved law
* Fishing within the                 enforcement through
park                                 regular patrols
* Awareness building
and county based
conservation initiatives
* Boundaty demarcation
Rwenzori Mts. Afro Montane     996   * Lobelia        * Poaching        * World Heritage site * Awareness building
N.P. and      Forest                 * High altitude  * Illegal forest  * Water Catchment  and community based
adjacent buffer                      forest           products removal  * Snow feeds water  conservation initiatives
zone                                 * Delicate bogs  * Agricultural   into the Nile       (e.g. Agro Forestry)
* Snow cap        encroachment                         * Improved law
Mountain                                               enforcement through
regular patrols
Semuliki N.P.  Low altitude    768   * Low altitude forest * Wildfires  * Transitional zone  * Creating fire brakes at
and adjacent  Rainforest             * Hot springs    * Problem animal  between Congo forest selected strategic areas
buffer zone                          * Pygmies        * Fishing within  and E. African region  around the park
* Eastern extension park           * Contains half of the * Awareness building
of Congo forest belt * Pouching    recorded bird species o and community based
* Illegal forest  the entire Congo basin conservation initiatives
product removal   * Located close to  * Improved law
postulated pleistoncene enforcement through
forest refugium     regular patrols
Mt Elgon N.P. Afro Montane     1,192 * Afro Montane   * Poaching        * Extensive         * Boundary demarcation
and adjacent  forest                 Forest           * Cattle raiding  Afro-Montane with   * Awareness building
buffer zone                          * Caldera        * Smuggling (Cross unique vegetation  and community based
* Lobelia         Boarder)         * Craters           conservation initiatives
* Extensive       * Pit Sawing     * Water catchment   (Agro Forestry)
Afro-alpine and   * Illegal forest  areas
bamboo zone       product removal
* Endemic         * Grazing
butterflies & bird
Ispecies
- 82 -



Additional
Annex 12
STAP Technical Review
Uganda: Protected Areas Management And Sustainable Use Project
STAP Reviewer: Kenton R. Miller, Ph. D.
Date: October 8, 2001
KEY ISSUES
I .    Scientific and Technical Soundness of the Project. The proposal is the second phase of a process
that first focused on building the institutional and human capacity to restore the wildlife resource and the
potential for tourism in Uganda. Given the nation's history in terms of the loss of wildlife resources and
tourism capacity, and continuing insecurity, the two-step approach is rational. Of particular importance in
project design is the long-term commitment of the effort. Project planners recognize the need for significant
time to restore wildlife populations and communities, development of private sector capacity to operate
tourism facilities, and the development of solid community relations and benefit sharing opportunities.
2.    Identification of the Global Environment Benefits. Uganda was and remains one of the richest
biodiversity countries for reasons explained in the document Thus, the restoration of its wildlife is of
global interest. What is perhaps weak in the document is the role of Uganda's ecosystems in terms of their
ecosystem services that are of value to the greater region; water and fish protein resources are examples.
3.     Fit of the Project within GEF Goals. The objectives and measures proposed fit well within the
GEF operational guidelines. The proposal also responds to the directives of the COP, especially COP3.
4.     Regional Context. The relationship of this work with activities and investments in neighboring
Kenya and Tanzania could be strengthened in the document, including other GEF projects. The
opportunities for cross-boundary PA work, and shared ecosystems including Lake Victoria could be
mentioned.
5.     Replicability. The lessons learned by the project will be of value and interest to neighboring
countries and beyond. Specifically, this includes:
*   restoring wildlife populations and tourism capacity following periods of insecurity;
*   the work on financial sustamability;
*   "business planning"; and
* establishing financial independence from regular governmental appropriations for the UWA and
the UWEC.
6.     Sustainability of the Project. The project proposal recognizes well the sequence of steps needed to
create a sustainable economy based upon wildlife tourism. Specifically, establish the human and
institutional capacity (ICB-PAMSU previous phase); secure the Protected Areas and enable wildlife
populations to be re-established; build a private sector capable of managing tourism marketing and
facilities; and, very importantly, work with local communities to address their concerns, e.g., animal
-83 -



damage to crops, and to engage them in planning, management of wildlife and tourism, leading up to
benefit sharing with them. This will take time, as the document makes clear.
7.     Indicate the Extent to which this Project will Contribute to Improved Definition of GEF
Strategies and Policies. Unfortunately, the situations that Uganda has experienced will be/is being
repeated in Africa and elsewhere. Thus, GEF can continue to develop its strategies and policies to address
this context drawing upon the lessons leamed in Uganda. The key issues here are to be considered at the
5th World Protected Congress (Durban 2003), including:
*   building the capacity to deal with biophysical, socio-economic, and institutional change;
* local communities, equity, and sustainability;
* decentralization;
* sustainable finance and business planning; and
* management effectiveness; among other points.
SECONDARY ISSUES
8.     Linkages to Other Focal Areas. Little reference is made in the document to other focal areas,
specifically carbon sequestration, fresh water supplies and international waters. Clearly, Uganda's Parks
contribute importantly to these other global goals.
9.     Linkages to Other Programs and Action Plans at Regional and Sub-regional Levels. This
proposal contributes importantly to wider East African biodiversity conservation and economic
development based upon wildlife tourism. There are major investments by the GEF, bilateral assistance,
and NGOs in Protected Areas, wildlife management and restoration, tourism, and capacity building.
10.    Other Beneficial Environmental Effects. As noted above, the restoration of Uganda's Parks will
yield outcomes beyond tourism and related economic development These include restored and secured
water regimes that flow into lakes that provide significant fish protein.
11.    Degree of Involvement of Stakeholders in the Project. The document is not clear as to how local
communities have been involved in project design. Also, the nomenclature of the document, using terms
like "target population" and "target groups" suggest a one-way flow of energy. That is, the project is giving
benefit to others. Rather, the project surely seeks to engage these communities and institutions in project
design and management. In this way obviously these institutions and communities help share in the costs
(effort) and benefits.
12.    Innovativeness of the Project. The first significant innovation of this Project has been the
separation of the original 1997 ambitious effort into what has become two phases: first, to develop
institutional and human capacity, and then to restore wildlife populations and tourism facilities, and
establish community-based cooperative mechanisms. The second is to take the important, normally
neglected, step of reforning existing institutions to establish the capability to manage the key components
of wildlife management and tourism. And third, is the way the Project has dealt with time. This is clearly
a long-term effort in response to the biology of wildlife population restoration, developing tourism facilities
anew, and importantly, an honest recognition that insecurity will limit the rate of tourism visitation to the
Country.
- 84 -



Additional
Annex 13
Response to the STAP Technical Review
Uganda: Protected Areas Management And Sustainable Use Project
Scientific and Technical Soundness of the project: The STAP reviewer's assessment of the project is
that the proposal is scientifically and technically sound. Given the nation's history, and lack of institutional
capacity in the sector, he views the two-step approach as rational. The reviewer cites the long-term
commitment to the process of rehabilitation and capacity building as an important design feature of the
project that should ultimately lead to greater success in achieving project objectives.
Identification of the Global Environment Benefits: The reviewer concurs with the evaluation of the
biodiversity assets in Uganda and their global importance. He suggests that the proposal could be
strengthened by including a discussion of the ecosystem services that are provided by the conservation of
the ecosystems and there value to the greater region. This has been added to the proposal in the Summary
Project Analysis section.
Regional Context: The reviewers suggests that mention should be made of related activities in the region,
specifically Kenya and Tanzania, ana also efforts to better manage Lake Victoria. Associated activities
have now been included in the proposal under the Project Rationale section.
Replicability: The lessons learned by the project will be of value and interest to neighboring countries and
beyond in the review's judgment
Sustainability of the Project: The review thinks that the proposal recognizes well the sequence of steps
needed to create a sustainable economy based upon wildlife tourism. He highlights the projects aim to
work with local communities to address their concerns as an important element in achieving sustainability.
The reviewer concurs with the view that this is a long-term goal that will take time to achieve.
Improved Definition of GEF Strategies and Policies: The review's judgment is that the experience of
Uganda is and will be repeated in Africa and elsewhere. Thus, GEF can continue to develop its strategies
and policies to address this context drawing upon lessons learned in Uganda.
Secondary Issues
Degree of Involvement of Stakeholders in the Project: The reviewer though the project proposal was not
clear on the involvement of local communities. The proposal has been improved to address this concem
under the Summary Project Analysis section Social.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 14
Letter of Endorsement
Uganda: Protected Areas Management And Sustainable Use Project
;3w   ic.t--               )3>               So  ItmC     Ovlfepmeit
$3 S7 5t2M5tJ
5e Q~tobe' 2001
nr CO~uiEiy Detector Mr ePo                      o a
~~~~t LOWI:a
Tre Wod Sao*
t5~treeNW
wnwvo O,C, zgU33
Dow Mk Ad4a.
As yOw may be  r. OM tflOUbO   CapWI  OAt  ph, oa PAMSU PrOWt is
cw4g tor an   in hAge 202 ontwammet ate wtbw Sr * "twond
OSN tBmtdtnwi us coned a 1te fp)wt documw   ht ionStn tar w
ftnih*t wtw ft K8.PAMSU flt secon pWtuo wD  _tda  the burd n los
a morUeft sftfeUy In IJgW'ad
Thoe lnt   of TwiIP rrt anf $Uy wS cAfu  to be Ifoal palM ho taM
prgIw am t bfor6keUUd owt
I 5k  Ns Opo'trn    foh* gm Bw* t   ft assawe  twder toe te
F.or
c.: tteePmbu Secitr
Pity of Youmm. Tfd wid wtetoA
K-et
- 86 -



'[0~                         -  4  K  -2'                           34,/                            36
30-                    t V     z u ,, ^ in                   ,   1UGANDA
~4          \'>,,)            ,~1    <\                  ,>         ,/'     )*_>            INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY 4~
BUILDING PROJECT FOR
MOY! sA<diumOav        f         X  f  Cr f                   PROTECTED       AREAS
,{ ARUA !</DJUMAN JgUmND                                             MANAGEMENT AND
i, <   /'  ;  9   KITGUM  iao )  2SUSTAINABLE USE
0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
DEMOCRATIC         f   "'i N    BI.-) Morotos                                        '              NATIONAL CAPITAL
REPUBLIC     ~    fN.6bi                                                                           RVR
R              E~~~~~~~~~~~~.           P   LJ C  L   I   Ct ;e < c RIVR 
OF                                                                          TO                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-2      CONGO                           MASINDI                  ..\KATA WI                        ---    INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES  2-
\\D      >     Make,di      n               so                             0      50     100   150
<'        / ",         Kc-                    KILOMETERS
-                                       '-0KMIW*This mop wa's produced by the
HOIMA          N.-  010                            ,  KApCH             Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
)  N  )        ~~~~~~~The boundaries, colars, denaminations
4C  1  j- t       KIBOGA           * ) ' g KAMU!LI p \8 PALLISA rIe *)fl         and anyother information shownon
this map da not imply, an the port of
KIB LE f     Ki)M D                                  B                    The World Bank Group, any judgment
Ki6IARORO                                                                 oan the legalstatus of any territory, or
\  *V-'~*** 'Aea  I                     any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
oRUKUNIriNmuNG.JINJA, I                                   Bugiri
ABAROLE  r                                                                           1 FMUK     '   aBUGIRI
MUBENDE   .......\M O Z                            K  E  N   Y A
RKase    /                                                   4 D A  *   j' 2/                        36'
.,        *       '1, j 001 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S DI 
,.ASA A                                                                     Jub
Ed dV\BUSHENYI ?' 
V ALANGALA           IDEW                                          UAND
RoIs  *  ungo~~mo             IREP.
-   -->    A K~-     I ILake!         Victoriao                                 OF   /
u KUN IRI  ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     JL         L.~CONGO                               -Kapl.     /    KENYA
ABAL~~~~~~'>  T A N Z A NIA                                     RWAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o./\  L~~~~~~~~Ae  Nairobi0~~~~~~aiob
RWNAl                                                                                      BRWANDIrBojumbura a 
30'~r-                                     ~      .~~0TANZAAZNNAIA
a                                '-.5~~~









IMAGING
R>p^rt No.:         22914   UG
Type:      PAD



