Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated September 16,  2002 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 2002, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
UGANDA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter
alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(E) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of the 
Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to twenty one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights    (SDR 21,700,000) (the Credit);  
Page  3
-
-
2
(F) 
With the Recipient’s assistance, Part A of the Project will be carried out 
by UWA (as hereinafter defined), and Part B of the Project will be carried out by UWEC 
(as hereinafter defined) and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make available 
to UWA and  UWEC the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated        
May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
Page  4
-
-
3
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”; 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vii) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
Page  5
-
-
4
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”; and 
(viii)  a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(j) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Accountable 30-day Advance” means withdrawals from the respective  
Special Account sufficient for UWA (as hereinafter defined) and UWEC (as hereinafter 
defined) to meet Eligible Expenditures for a period of less than 30 days; 
(b)  
“Advance Account” means each of the accounts referred to in Part C of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“DAM” means the Department of Antiquities and Museums within 
MTTI (as hereinafter defined); 
(d) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable 
to 
Development 
Credit 
Agreements” 
of 
the 
Association, 
dated          
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;  
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a), 
and (5) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
in respect of  UWA Special Account (as hereinafter defined) and Categories (1) (b), (2) 
Page  6
-
-
5
(b), (3) (b), (4) (b), and (5) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement in respect of UWEC Special Account (as hereinafter defined); 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 
and ending on June 30 of the following year; 
(i) 
“IEC” means information, education, and communication; 
(j) 
“MTTI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry; 
(k) 
“Protected Areas” means national parks (National Parks), wildlife 
reserves, sanctuaries or other areas of particular interest to the conservation of 
biodiversity and designated as such by the Recipient in accordance with Uganda Wildlife 
Statute No. 14 of 1996 of the Laws of Recipient; 
(l) 
“Protected Areas System Plan” or “PASP” mean the plan initiated to 
assess and rationalize the status of Protected Areas in the Recipient’s territory;  
(m) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, established by the 
Recipient within MTTI; 
(n) 
“PIP” 
means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 
2
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted by the Recipient pursuant to      
Section 6.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Plan;  
(o) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  7
-
-
6
(p) 
“Special Account” means each of the accounts referred to in Part B.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Strategic Plan” means the strategic management plan dated April 2002 
which outlines the programs and activities of priority to be implemented by UWA (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(r) 
“Uganda Shillings” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(s) 
“UWA” means Uganda Wildlife Authority, established and operating 
pursuant to Statute No. 14 of 1996 of the Laws of the Recipient (UWA Statute);  
(t) 
“UWA Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
UWA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to UWA Project Agreement; 
(u) 
“UWA Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and UWA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to UWA 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
(v) 
“UWEC” means the Uganda Wildlife Education Center, established and 
operating pursuant to Trustees Act, Cap. 142 of the Laws of the Recipient (UWEC Trust 
Deed); 
(w) 
“UWEC Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
UWEC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to UWEC Project Agreement; 
(x) 
“UWEC Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and UWEC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to UWEC 
Subsidiary Agreement; and 
(y) 
“Wildlife Statute” means the Uganda Wildlife Statute, Statute No. 14 of 
1996 of the Laws of the Recipient. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  8
-
-
7
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million four hundred seven thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,407,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Parts A and 
B
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out  
Part C of the Project through MTTI, and Part D of the Project through DAM, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the GEF Trust Fund grant Agreement, shall  cause UWA and  UWEC 
to perform, in accordance with the provisions of UWA Project Agreement and UWEC 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of UWA and UWEC therein set forth, and shall 
take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable UWA and UWEC to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performances. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
-
8
(c) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated from time to time for Part A of the Project to UWA as a grant under a 
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and UWA (UWA 
Subsidiary Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated from time to time for Part B of the Project to UWEC as a grant under a 
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and UWEC (UWEC 
Subsidiary Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in Uganda Shillings in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Bank (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain the Project Account under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank until the completion of the Project; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of the Uganda Shillings 
equivalent to US $60,000 (the Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at quarterly intervals, 
replenish the Project Account by the amounts required to finance the Recipient’s contribution 
for expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant or the Credit, as shall be agreed upon between the Recipient and the Bank; and 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project 
other than those financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant or the Credit. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
Page  10
-
-
9
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
Page  11
-
-
10
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts and for the Advance Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  12
-
-
11
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  The Recipient shall prepare, and cause UWA and UWEC to 
prepare, and furnish to the Bank before or with the first application for withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and, thereafter, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which: 
(a)  
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and uses of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(b) 
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(c)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
UWA or UWEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the respective Project Agreement. 
Page  13
-
-
12
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the GEF Trsut 
Fund Grant, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that UWA or UWEC will be able to perform its obligations under the respective Project 
Agreement. 
(c) 
UWA Statute shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UWA to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d) 
UWEC Trust Deed shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UWEC to 
perform any of its obligations under the respective Project Agreement. 
(e)         (i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Development Credit 
Agreement made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
 (a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Recipient; 
(b) 
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and 
Page  14
-
-
13
(c) 
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. This following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
UWA Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and UWA; 
(b) 
UWEC Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and UWEC; 
(c) 
UWA and UWEC have each appointed, for Project implementation, the 
Financial Manager and Accountant referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
UWA and UWEC have each established the procurement unit referred to 
in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and appointed thereto staff having 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(e) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
Section 6.03.This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  15
-
-
14
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development of 
the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 8147 
Kampala 
Uganda 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  facsimile 
 
FINSEC 
              
 61170   
 
230163 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202)477 6391
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
-
15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By                 /s/  Edith Ssempala 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By               /s/  Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Page  17
-
-
16
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Part A:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works 
 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures  90 %  
 
of
local expenditure  
 
(a)  Under Part A of the Project 
1,430,000 
 
(b)Under Part B of the Project 
340,930 
 
(2)  Goods, equipment and 
 
  100% of foreign 
 
vehicles  
 
  expenditures 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(a)  Under Parts A of the Project 
41,100 
 
(b) Under Part B of the Project 
223,450 
 
 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
  100% 
 
including audit fees 
 
(a)  Under Part A of the Project 
240,000 
 
(b) Under Part B of the Project 
220,000 
 
Amount of the 
Page  18
-
-
17
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(4)  Training 
 
  100% 
 
(a)  Under Part A of the Project 
634,300 
 
(b) Under Part B of the Project 
61,270 
 
(5) Operating Costs 
 
  90% 
 
(a)  Under Part A of the Project 
660,000 
 
(b)  Under Part B of the Project 
1,930,000 
 
(6)  Unallocated 
625,950 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 6,407,000 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the expenditures incurred on account 
of project implementation management and monitoring including patrol activities (night 
out allowances and fuel), radio and computer maintenance costs, community 
conservation operation and maintenance costs, office supplies, vehicles operation and 
maintenance, road maintenance supplies including spare parts, rent of headquarters 
office, and travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service. 
Page  19
-
-
18
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
100,000, may be made in respect of Category (5) (b) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 2002. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, in 
respect of UWEC Special Account, to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure: 
(a) 
for expenditures for works under contracts not exceeding US $100,000 
equivalent and goods under contracts not exceeding US $100,000; and  
(b) 
for expenditures for consultant’s services under contracts not exceeding: 
(i) US $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms; and (ii) US $50,000 equivalent for 
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
Part B
:
Special Accounts
1. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts 
(UWA Special Account and UWEC Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Recipient, all withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule. Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into the respective 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account, in respect of UWA Special Account, shall be supported by a Financial 
Monitoring Report. 
Page  20
-
-
19
(b) 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into UWA Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the Financial Monitoring Report accompanying said application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in UWA 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of US $800,000 in respect of UWA 
Special Account.  Each such deposit into UWA Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of UWA Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any Financial Monitoring Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Financial Monitoring Reports. 
4. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Recipient of its determination. 
Page  21
-
-
20
5. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the respective  
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
respective Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement. 
Part C:
30-day Advance  Accounts
1. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Uganda Shillings two Advance 
Accounts (UWA Advance Account and UWEC Advance Account) in a commercial bank, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2. 
The Recipient shall, in accordance with the procedures set out in the PIP, 
withdraw from the respective Special Account and deposit into each Advance Account, 
the respective Accountable 30-day Advance required for Eligible Expenditures. 
3. 
Payments out of the respective Advance Account shall only be made for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
4. 
In the event that the Bank, after consultation with the Recipient, determines that 
any outstanding amount in any Advance Account is not further required to cover 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient, upon notice from the Bank shall 
promptly refund such outstanding amount to the respective Special Account
.
Page  22
-
-
21
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of UWEC Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Financial Monitoring Reports
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex  
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to US $400,000 in respect of UWEC Special Account, to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Account and deposited into UWEC Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
US $200,000 in respect of UWEC Special Account, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of UWEC Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish UWEC Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of UWEC Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into UWEC Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Account and deposit into UWEC Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of UWEC Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposit into UWEC Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Account and deposit into UWEC 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of UWEC 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into UWEC Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Account under one or 
more of UWEC Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
Page  23
-
-
22
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into UWEC Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
UWEC Special Accou
nt’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF 
Trust Fund Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in UWEC Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
-
23
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to achieve sustainable and cost-effective 
management of the Recipient’s wildlife and cultural resources through: (a) improving the 
Recipient’s ability to attract tourists to its wildlife and cultural heritage sites; and (b)  
developing and implementing cost-effective management strategies in managing these 
resources. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Sustainable Wildlife Management
1. 
Capacity building for UWA to implement the Strategic Plan and the PASP 
through: (a) carrying out of training to UWA staff; (b) acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles; (c) construction of approximately 1200 housing units to provide 
accommodation for the Protected Areas’ field staff; and (d) renovation of UWA’s 
Headquarters office. 
2. 
Development and carrying out of an UWA community management program to: 
(a) collaborate with district and local government communities on wildlife management 
outside the Protected Areas; and (b) address wildlife management issues outside the 
Protected Areas including animal control, establishment of community wildlife 
management areas, and encouraging and assisting local communities to improve the use 
of wildlife resources. 
3. 
Enhancement 
of 
general 
management 
of 
the 
Protected 
Areas 
through:               
(a) provision of support for increased park patrols by UWA’s field staff; (b) monitoring 
of Protected Areas; (c) development and implementation of park management plans and 
annual operations plans for Protected Areas; (d) training of UWA staff in data collection, 
conservation education, and first medical aid; and (e) acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles.  
4. 
Rehabilitation and maintenance of Protected Areas’: (a) rangers’ outpost; (b) 
existing roads; and (c) headquarters office. 
Page  25
-
-
24
5. 
Carrying out of studies for the preparation of a plan to design options to address  
issues of people resident in the P
rotected Areas or using the Protected Areas’ resources, 
including those Protected Areas of Mt. Elgon National Park, Katonga Wildlife Reserve, 
and Pian Upe Wildlife Reserve. 
Part B:
Environmental Conservation Education
1. 
Carrying out  of an IEC campaign through: (a) teacher education programs; (b) 
development of conservation education materials; and (c) visits to schools and children in 
remote areas. 
2. 
Construction within UWEC facilities of: (a) natural open air exhibits of the three 
major ecosystems of the Recipient (rainforest, savannah, and wetland); (b) access roads; 
(c) staff accommodation; and (d) a child discovery center. 
3. 
Development and carrying out of an animal welfare and rehabilitation program 
aimed at improving animal holding under the Convention of International Trade in 
Endangered Species, through improvement of: (a) care of wildlife species; and (b) 
veterinary facilities. 
4. 
Development of a plan to strengthen the institutional structure, management, and 
capitalization of UWEC. 
Part C:
Tourism Framework
1. 
Development of the tourism sector through: (a) establishment of a sustainable 
tourism framework based on policy development strategy and enabling legislation; (b) 
establishment of a licensing and registration system for operators within the sector; (c) 
compiling of accurate statistics on the sector; and (d) training of MTTI’s staff in human 
resources. 
2. 
Capacity 
building 
for 
the 
Wildlife 
Department 
in 
the 
MTTI 
through:                  
(a) acquisition of equipment; and (b) staff training and management and technical support 
to enable the Wildlife Department to carry out the Recipient’s responsibilities under 
international treaties in particular under the Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species. 
Page  26
-
-
25
Part D:
Cultural Heritage
Strengthening of DAM through: (a) renovation and maintenance of its current 
buildings; (b) refurbishment of museums; (c) establishment of a heritage trail in Fort 
Portal; (d) construction of a facility to house a cultural center in Kabale; (e) development 
of  a country wide cultural historic sites register and database; (f) development of pilot 
cultural sites; and (g) training of DAM’s staff in visitor management and museum 
operations. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  27
-
-
26
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than US $200,000 equivalent per contract; 
and (b) goods estimated to cost less than US $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  28
-
-
27
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Force 
Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing US $21,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  29
-
-
28
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US $200,000 or more for works, and US $100,000 or more for goods, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less than  US 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  30
-
-
29
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Consultants 
Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US $110,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
US $200,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured on single 
source basis. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
Page  31
-
-
30
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  32
-
-
31
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) cause UWA  to carry out Part A of the Project; (b) cause 
UWEC to carry out Part B of the Project; and (c) carry out Parts C and D of the Project;  
under the overall supervision of the Permanent Secretary of MTTI who shall be assisted 
by the PCU.  
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a PIP satisfactory to the Bank setting 
out: (i) details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements for the Project; (ii) the 
performance indicators; and (iii) such other administrative, financial and organizational 
arrangements as shall be required for the Project; and 
(b) 
carry out the Project in  accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 
4
and the procedures set out in the PIP, and shall not, except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Bank, may 
adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall not carry out any involuntary resettlement for any 
people resident within the Protected Areas, or impose any restriction of access to legally 
designated  Protected Areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the people 
resident within such Protected Areas;  
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this paragraph: (i) involuntary resettlement includes 
the involuntary taking of land resulting in relocation or loss of shelter; loss or destruction 
of housing, crops, or other assets or access to assets; or loss of income sources or means 
of livelihood, whether or not the affected people must move to another location; and (ii) 
restriction of access includes restriction on use of the resources of the Protected Areas 
imposed on: (A) people living  outside such Protected Areas, but who are dependent on 
such resources; or (B) people who continue to live inside such Protected Areas during 
and after Project implementation; and 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) and (b) above, the Recipient may, 
in accordance with the Wildlife Statute, exercise its right to restrict any new 
encroachment to, or expansion of settlement in, the Protected Areas. 
Page  33
-
-
32
4. 
The Recipient shall cause UWA and UWEC to: 
 
(a) 
each appoint a Financial Manager and an Accountant; and 
(b) 
each establish a procurement unit with staff having qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about 48 months after Effectiveness Date, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, no later than two months or 60 days after the date 
of such report, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  34
-
-
33
Schedule 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to  modifications by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Bank: 
1. 
Increase of UWA’s revenues to Uganda Shillings 6,000,000,000 by the 5th year 
of Project Effectiveness Date. 
2.  
Reduction of key species poaching in patrol area from existing initial baseline. 
3.  
increase of population number of key mammal species in Queen Elizabeth, 
Murchison Falls and Kidepo National Parks by 5% within 5 years of Project 
Effectiveness Date.  
4.  
Satisfactory handling by UWA of problem animals in particular within 
communities near Queen Elizabeth and Kibale National Parks that reported significant 
number of problem animals incidents in the past 
5.  
Approximately 120,000 visitors/year including 80,000 students to visit Uganda 
Wildlife Education Center.  
6. 
Adoption by the Recipient’s Ministry of Education of Wildlife Conservation 
Education (WCE) into primary school education by the end of the Project.  
7. 
Distribution of Wildlife Conservation Education materials to 40% of primary 
schools by the end of the Project. 
8. 
Establishment of accurate and reliable data base on  the Recipient’s tourist 
potentials such as statistics and market analysis.
 
