Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
 
UWEC Project Agreement 
 
(Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
UGANDA WILDLIFE EDUCATION CENTER 
 
Page  2
2
Dated  September 16, 2002 
 
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and UGANDA WILDLIFE EDUCATION CENTER (UWEC). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement (GEF Trust Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Uganda (the Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment  Facility (GEF) 
in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF 
Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants to the GEF, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount of six million four hundred seven 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,407,000), on terms and conditions set forth in 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
UWEC (UWEC Subsidiary Agreement), proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided 
for under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, will be made available to UWEC on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said UWEC Subsidiary Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS UWEC, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part B of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) UWEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and UWEC shall otherwise agree, UWEC shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) UWEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, UWEC shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and the Recipient, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with UWEC on said plan. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.04. UWEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, UWEC shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) UWEC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Project . 
 
(b)  
UWEC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Project, or the performance by the Recipient of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of UWEC 
 
Section 3.01. UWEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. UWEC shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
maintenance and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial 
and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. UWEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  UWEC shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
Page  6
-
4
-
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources
 
and
 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project. 
(b) UWEC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors,  of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure, UWEC shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  7
-
5
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) 
Without limitation upon UWEC’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Section 4.01, UWEC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial 
Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under and the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part B of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effectiveness Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B of the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of UWEC 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly 
notify UWEC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202)477 
6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
7
-
For Uganda Wildlife Education Center: 
 
Plot # 56/57 Johnson Rd 
 
P. O. Box 369  
 
Entebbe, Uganda 
 
Facsimile: 256-41-320073 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UWEC may be 
taken or executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and the Executive Director shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BNAK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
/s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
UGANDA WILDLIFE EDUCATION CENTER 
 
By  
/s/ Edith Ssempala 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1. 
UWEC shall carry out Part B of the Project under the overall supervision of the 
Permanent Secretary of MTTI. 
2. 
UWEC shall: (a) appoint a Financial Manager and an Accountant; and (b) 
establish a procurement unit with staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
3. UWEC 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about 24 months after the Effectiveness Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by no later than 60 days after the date of such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
