Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
 
UWA Project Agreement 
 
(Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY 
 
Page  2
2
Dated September 16, 2002 
 
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051204 UG 
 
UWA PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY (UWA). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement (GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Republic of Uganda (the Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants to the GEF, 
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount of six million four 
hundred seven thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,407,000), on terms and 
conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
UWA (UWA Subsidiary Agreement), proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided 
for under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, will be made available to UWA on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said UWA Subsidiary Agreement;  
 WHEREAS 
UW
A, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in  
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part A of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) UWA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and UWA shall otherwise agree, UWA shall carry out Part A of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) UWA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, UWA shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and the Recipient, a plan for the 
future operation of Part A of the Project; and 
Page  5
-
3
-
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with UWA on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. UWA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, UWA shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) UWA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Project . 
 
(b)  
UWA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Project, or the performance by the Recipient of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of UWA 
 
Section 3.01. UWA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. UWA shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
maintenance and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial 
and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. UWA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) UWA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of 
the Project. 
(b) UWA 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports, 
UWA shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  7
-
5
-
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  UWA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank before or with the first 
application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and, thereafter, not 
later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Financial Monitoring Report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(a)  
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and uses of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(b) 
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(c)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end 
of the period covered by the said report. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of UWA 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly 
notify UWA of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at suc
h
party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
Page  9
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202)477 
6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Uganda Wildlife Authority: 
 
Plot # 3 Kintu Rd 
 
P. O. Box 3530 
 
Kampala, Uganda  
 
Facsimile: 256-41-346291 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UWA may be 
taken or executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and the Executive Director shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
 AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
By  
/s/ 
Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY 
 
By  
/s/ 
Edith Ssempala 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1. 
UWA shall carry out Part A of the Project under the overall supervision of the 
Permanent Secretary of MTTI. 
2. 
 (a) 
UWA shall not carry out any involuntary resettlement for any people 
resident within the Protected Areas, or impose any restriction of access to legally 
designated  Protected Areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the people 
resident within such Protected Areas;  
 
(b) 
For the purposes of the this paragraph: (i) involuntary resettlement 
includes the involuntary taking of land resulting in relocation or loss of shelter; loss or 
destruction of housing, crops, or other assets or access to assets; or loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected people must move to another 
location; and (ii) restriction of access includes restriction on use of the resources of the 
Protected Areas imposed on: (A) people living  outside such Protected Areas, but who are 
dependant on such resources; or (B) people who continue to live inside such Protected 
Areas during and after Project implementation; and 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) and (b) above, UWA may, in 
accordance with the Wildlife Statute, exercise its right to restrict any new encroachment 
to, or expansion of settlement in, the Protected Areas. 
3. 
UWA 
shall: 
(a) 
appoint 
a 
Financial  Manager  and 
an 
Accountant;  and                
(b) establish a procurement unit with staff having qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. UWA 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about 24 months after the Effectiveness Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Page  12
-
10 - 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by no later than 60 day after the date of such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
