Document of                 F |                  PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2897-ZR
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 25, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of October 1978
Z 1.00     =   SDR 1.00
US$1.00    =   Z 0.77
z 1.00     =   US$1.30
As of January 1979
Z 1.00     =   SDR 0.5
US$1.00    =   Z 1.007
Z 1.00     =   US$0.9930
As of August 24, 1979
Z 1.00     =   SDR 0.375
US$1.00        Z 2.04
Z 1.00     =   US$0.49
Since February 22, 1980
z 1.00     =   SDR 0.2625
US$1.00    =   Z 2.9
z 1.00     =   US$0.34
WEIGHTS ANiD MEASURES
Metric                                                  British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                       -                     3.25 feet
1 hectare (ha)                    -                     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2           -                    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )          -                     0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                   -                     2.2 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)                        -                    0.26 US gallon (gal)
-                     0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)              -                     2,205 pounds (lb)
MAIN ABBREVIATIONS
DOA       -      Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
INERA     -      National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies
ONDS      -      National Sugar Office
ARP       -      Agricultural Recovery Program
ISA       -      International Sugar Agreement
CCCE      -      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
SOFIDE    -      Societe Financiere de Developpement
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
Compagnie Sucriere: January 1 to December 31



ZAIRE               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .    ...............................................   l
A.   Project Background ........     ...........................   l
B.   The Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Sectors .........  1
C.   The Sugar Sub-Sector ........     .........................   7
D.   Sugar Markets, Marketing and Prices .....    .............  8
II.   COMPAGNIE SUCRIERE ..............10 ..........................  lO
III.   THE PROJECT ............    ...................................  16
A.   General Description ..................................  16
B.   Detailed Features ....................................  17
C.   Organization and Management ........................... 20
D.   Accounts and Audit ................................... 20
E.   Environment and Occupational Health ....     .............. 21
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ...  21
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........     ...............................  24
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................... 27
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....     ............... 28
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Tà2be 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Project Cost and Financing Summary
Table 3  - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4  - Projected Income Statements
- -~. Table 5 - Projected Cash Flow Statements
Table 6 - Projected Balance Sheets
Table 7 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation
Table 8 - Government Cash Flow
Table 9 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 10 - Economic Sensitivity Analysis
Annex    - Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
Chart l - Compagnie Sucriere Organization
Chart 2  - Implementation Schedule
Maps IBRD 14628 and 14629
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zaire in July 1979, consisting of Messrs. F. M. Patorni, Y. Wong You Cheong
(IDA), P. I. Ross and A. de Ruyter (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      A review of the sugar industry in Zaire was carried out in October
1977 by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in collaboration with the World
Bank Industrial Sector Survey Mission.  It appeared from this review that
domestic supplies could best be increased in the short-term by rehabilitating
and expanding the sugar estate at Kwilu-Ngongo. In September 1978 and in
January 1979, Batnk staff discussed the possibility of financing rehabilitation
and expansion of the Kwilu-Ngongo estate facilities with Government and the
Project sponsor (Compagnie Sucriere). A detailed report prepared by Compagnie
Sucriere was the basis for appraisal of the proposed Project in July 1979.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zaire in July 1979, consisting of Messrs. F. M. Patorni, Y. Wong You Cheong
(IDA), P.I. Ross and A. de Ruyter (consultants). No significant changes were
made in project design following appraisal.
1.02      The main objective of the proposed Project would be to increase
sugar production in Zaire in order ultimately to meet domestic demand for
this commodity. To meet this goal, the proposed Project would provide for
(i) rehabilitation and expansion of the Kwilu-Ngongo sugar estate; (ii) staff
training; and (iii) applied research. The proposed Project would also aim at
increasing the production of food crops and at improving the living conditions
of the local rural population through the implementation of pilot projects.
B. The Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Sectors
General
1.03      About 4% of Zaire's total area of about 2.3 million km  is cultivated;
45% is covered by equatorial forests and the balance is made up of savannah,
mountains, lakes, rivers and marshes. Approximately 75% of the population of
26 million derives its livelihood directly from agriculture, and many of the
remaining 25% are indirectly dependent on it for employment. Zaire also has
the world's largest reserve of tropical hardwoods, and there is considerable
potential for development of freshwater fishing.
1.04      There are two main types of production units in the agricultural
sector.  Some 3-4 million traditional small family farms occupy about 4
million ha and account for about 60% of total agricultural production; subsis-
tence food crops such as cassava, maize, plantain, rice and groundnuts are
grown as are some cash crops such as cotton and coffee. About 900 large scale
agro-industrial plantations, covering about 400,000 ha produce coffee, tea,
rubber and cocoa for export or sugar, palm oîl, and cattle for the domestic



- 2-
market. Processing of agricultural products is mostly carried out by agro-
industrial enterprises which handle the output of their own plantations as
well as additional crops purchased from smallholders. Many processing plants
are old, badly maintained and lack replacements and spare parts for their
equipment.
1.05      Agricultural production has been severely hampered by the political
turmoil of the 1960's with the disruption of transportation and commerce, the
deterioration of Government services, unfavorable farm prices, nationalization
policies and the general deterioration of Zaire-s economy.  The results have
been a reduction in the volume of crop exports, and an increase in imports of
foodstuffs to meet the needs of the fast-growing urban population.  Production
of some commodities which the country used to export has decreased to the
extent that in a number of cases, such as palm oil and cotton, there is a
need to import to meet local demand. Food imports account for about 20%
of merchandise imports and the effects on the balance of payments has been
serious.  Even so, food imports are not sufficient to meet demand and serious
shortages occur leading to rapid increases in the price of food. Agricultural
exports, principally of coffee, accounted for 14-21% of all exports during
the last five years, depending on price fluctuations for coffee and copper.
Foreign exchange allocated to importing agricultural inputs, however, has
fallen; these now constitute less than one percent of total imports.
1.06      Marketing of most agricultural crops is dominated by the private
sector. Prices are fixed by the Government at various levels of the market-
ing chain, but the actual prices paid by consumers are often much higher.
Domestic market prices are affected by the high margins of a long chain of
intermediaries, by inadequate, high-cost transportation, by packing and
storage problems and by high losses, especially of perishable products. All
of this results in either permanent shortages or in an intermittent supply
which often does not meet demand. Export marketing is handled by commercial
plantations or trading agents.
Institutional Structure
1.07      Despite Governnent declarations of its intention to give priority
to agricultural development, agriculture-s share of the recurrent budget
increased from about 1.5% for the period 1970-76 to an average of only 3%
in 1977-78, while its share of the investment budget fluctuated between 2%
and 8%.
1.08      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DOA), is
responsible for establishing general agricultural production policy, imple-
menting price and marketing policies for agricultural crops, carrying out
agricultural research and providing extension-and village water supply ser-
vices. The DOA is headed by a State Commissioner for Agriculture, with two
State Secretaries under him, one for Agriculture and one for Rural Development.
At present, DOA is not able to provide effective assistance to the country's
farmers. Only the small minority benefitting from the roughly 30 ongoing
rural development projects (almost all foreign assisted) have access to effec-
tive extension services. DOA½s operations are hampered by lack of research



- 3 -
and of inputs such as improved seed, poor transport and communications and
generally weak organization. The National Institute of Agronomic Research and
Studies (INERA), under DOA, is in charge of agricultural research in Zaire.
Its activities cover plantation and field crops as well as livestock. INERA
has 22 research stations, not all of them active due to inadequate budget
allocations. In 1971, Government started to set up specialized development
organizations ("Offices") for each major agricultural product.  The National
Textile Fibers Office (ONAFITEX), was the first to be established and dealt
with cotton; the National Cereals Office (ONACER), with maize and other grains
and the National Sugar Office (ONDS), with sugar, were created thereafter.
The principal responsibility of these bodies was to provide technical assis-
tance to farmers, to buy produce at fixed Government prices, process it and
sell it on the domestic market or export it. In May 1978, most "Offices",
including ONACER, ONAFITEX, and ONDS, were abolished. For cotton processing
and marketing, Government has promoted regional mixed-capital textile firms.
The National Staple Food Products Office (ONPV) has replaced ONACER and is
now responsible for providing farmers with inputs and marketing their food
crops. However, ONPV can play only a minor role because it is short of funds.
Responsibility for sugar production has reverted to the two sugar companies
under Government-s "retrocession program" (para 1.11) and sugar imports are
now handled by commercial firms (para 1.32).
1.09      The commercial agricultural sector is served by commercial banks
and by a national development bank (SOFIDE) whose financing of agricultural
investment projects has grown rapidly in the past three years. There is no
institutional credit for small farmers, except for that minority who benefit
from special agricultural projects. Agricultural credit demand and possible
institutional structures are being studied in three projects financed by
FAO/UNDP and by Italian and Canadian bilateral assistance.
Government Policies
1.10      Up until 1973, almost all major industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises were owned by foreign and locally-based expatriate interests.
The "zairianization" measures of 1973-74, however, transferred ownership of
many firms in the transportation, commerce, agriculture, and agro-industrial
sectors and some in the manufacturing sector, to private Zairian hands. In
1974-75, the Government's "radicalization" measures effectively nationalized
about two-thirds of the firms in the manufacturing sector, which nevertheless
continued to be managed for the most part by their expatriate former owners
and managers. The "zairianization" and "radicalization" measures resulted in
severe dislocation of the distribution system of manufactured goods (especially
in the interior), a drastic decline in the level of industrial investment
and a substantial deterioration in relations between the private sector
and Government. In 1976-77, under the Government's "retrocession" program,
ownership of almost all nationalized firms and a large number of "zairianized"
enterprises were returned to their former foreign owners, who were required
subsequently to find Zairian partners to purchase 40% of their shareholdings.
Although finding suitable local partners has proven difficult in many cases,
given the limited number of Zairian entrepreneurs, several foreign owned
industrial firms have so far managed to do so. In some cases, such as that
of Compagnie Sucriere which the proposed Project would assist, Government
holds 40% of the shares.



1.11      The economic crisis in Zaire has depressed the investment environment.
Following "retrocession" in 1976/77, which was prompted by concern over the
lack of adequate maintenance and replacement of plant and equipment during the
periods of "zairianization", plants in many branches of industry were found to
be in major need of modernization and rehabilitation. Private foreign invest-
ment for this purpose, however, has not been forthcoming due to continued
uncertainty coupled with declining demand for certain manufactured products
and shortages of foreign exchange for profit repatriation, imported raw
materials and spare parts. In some branches, notably those based on process-
ing of local raw materials (and especially agro-industry), there has been net
disinvestment overall since the late 1960s. In this environment, SOFIDE (para
1.09) has become the major source of long-term foreign exchange financing and
has supported much of the investment required to preserve Zaire's industrial
base and to restore agricultural and agro-industrial production.
1.12      The Government has tried to use a number of policy instruments to
regulate and promote industrial development in Zaire. Prices of almost all
manufactured goods are controlled at the producer, wholesale and retail levels
by the Department of National Economy. Producer prices are generally estab-
lished on the basis of production costs (including depreciation) plus a 20%
profit margin before tax (which is 50%). Fixed margins above these prices
are also set for wholesalers and retailers mark-ups. Increasing shortages
of supply of processed goods, however, have caused price control mechanisms to
be rather ineffective particularly at the wholesale and retail levels, where
the high profit margins of an extended chain of commercial intermediaries have
tended to push final consumer prices well above officially established ones.
Taxes and duties are levied on imported goods but their application is some-
what unsystematic and haphazard. As a result, some local manufacturers have
difficulty in competing with importers because higher import tariffs are
charged on inputs than on finished products. Under the Investment Code
established in 1969 and revised in September 1979, the Government can grant a
number of tax exemptions and guarantees for repatriation of capital investment,
profits and interest. Until September 1979, the Code was administered by an
Investment Commission within the Department of National Economy. The small
staff of the Investment Commission was not able to review adequately the large
number of applications, and in September 1979 the contents of Investment Code
and the way it is implemented underwent a major revision. Certain changes
were made whose purposes were (i) to strengthen and improve the process of
project evaluation, (ii) to simplify the decision-making process and (iii) to
encourage foreign investment.
1.13      In the crisis which has beset the Zairian economy since 1974, the
impact of price controls, foreign trade regulations and the Investment Code
upon the activities of the industrial sector has, in practice, been very
limited.  Government is presently preparing a recovery program for the Zairian
economy, and it is expected that this program will include, inter alia,
allocation of additional foreign exchange for purchase of raw materials and
spare parts by local producers, and priority status for industries based upon
local raw materials.



-5-
The Agricultural Recovery Program (Programme de Relance Agricole)
1.14      The Agricultural Recovery Program (ARP) was prepared as part of the
"Mobutu Plan", which was to define the general objectives for economic recovery.
ARP presented the Government's assessment of the situation and its proposals
for solving the major problems, including identification of the key invest-
ments necessary to stimulate agricultural production. It was discussed by
the Agricultural Working Group set up in 1977 following the 1976 Consultative
Group meeting. The Zaire Government and the representatives of various donors
agreed which were major current bottlenecks in agricultural development and
which priority investments could therefore be identified. These were: (i)
restoring transportation links in the rural areas; (ii) raising productivity
on small farms; (iii) applying simple and low cost agricultural technologies;
(iv) reviewing pricing and marketing policies; (v) involving the private
sector in the Agricultural Recovery Program through Development Agreements
with industrial enterprises, whereby funds from the collection of special
charges are earmarked for priority development projects; and (vi) strengthen-
ing agricultural training and extension.
1.15      Since the last meeting of the Agricultural Working Group in March
1978, IDA has continued the sectoral dialogue with the Government, most
recently during the first Country Implementation Review and in the context
of the preparation of the investment program for 1979 - 1981.
Development Agreements and Economic Recovery Funds
1.16      The Government intends to call increasingly on the private sector to
intervene directly in agricultural development. To stimulate participation by
the private sector in the national economic recovery effort, the Government
established a system of economic recovery funds in 1978. The system was
institutionalized by law 79-002 of February 7, 1979 which requires all indus-
trial and commercial enterprises to participate in the national effort for
economic recovery by signing Development Agreements with the National Executive
Council, whereby they are authorized to establish an Economic Recovery Fund
from the collection of a special sales tax. The proceeds are to be deposited
once a month with the Bank of Zaire and are to be managed by the enterprise
for the Government; the enterprise is to keep separate accounts on this fund.
The fund is to be used to finance development projects with priority given to
import substitution projects for enterprises engaged in a productive activity.
When operating in the interior of the country, the enterprises can use this
fund to finance the maintenance and/or construction of transport and social
infrastructures (roads, schools, dispensaries). The enterprises can implement
such develoment projects on their own or sub-contract their implementation to
other companies and private or public organizations under an "Implementation
Agreement".
1.17      Under Departmental Ordinance No. BCE/ENI 091/78 of October 25, 1978
a supervisory committee is responsible for approving all the projects to be
financed by an enterprise through an economie recovery fund and for monitoring
their performance. It is composed of ten members of whom two represent the
enterprise, six are from the Departments of Finance, Planning, Portfolio,
National Economy and Commerce and Industry, and Agriculture and Rural Develop-
ment, and two are commissioners from the General Accounting Office.



- 6 -
1.18      To date, the experience with Development Agreements is mixed,
although on the whole positive. Several companies, including Compagnie
Sucriere, have signed Development Agreements with the National Executive
Council and have expressed their satisfaction with the system. However, the
Agreements are often loosely drafted, defining the actions to be taken in a
general way only and without specifying the distribution of the financial
benefits arising from them. The terms under which the companies may utilize
the Recovery Funds are likewise not clearly stated. The success of these
projects therefore largely depends on the performance of the individual
companies establishing Economic Recovery Funds.
Other Measures
1.19      Certain other measures introduced in 1978 to revitalize the economy
as a whole are encouraging. Law No. 008 adopted in January 1978 is intended
to invest the regions with increased autonomy and responsibility for their
own economic development. A network of Regional Economic Development Councils
is currently being set up to serve as the policy-making apparatus for the
economic development of the different regions and subregions and to assume
responsibility for coordination and monitoring investment and development
projects and programs.
IDA Projects
1.20      IDA has financed ongoing projects as follows:  livestock development
(Shaba Region), smallholder cotton development (Equateur Region), a second
livestock project in the Ituri region and an oil-palm project (Haut-Zaire and
Equateur Regions). All projects have encountered severe start-up problems and
difficulties in obtaining agreed local contributions. The Shaba and the Ituri
livestock projects have been hampered by delays in local contributions. The
cotton project has been set back by, among other things, the abolition of
ONAFITEX, while the oil palm credit is not yet effective.
1.21      A Credit for a Fifth SOFIDE Project (para 1.09) has been approved
by the Bank-s Executive Directors in March 1980. The credit would finance
the foreign exchange component of subprojects approved by SOFIDE in the
agriculture, transportation and industrial sectors.
Bank Group Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.22      The Bank-s lending strategy to Zaire for the period 1979-81 is to
finance exclusively projects which (i) contribute directly to rehabilitating
productive capacity, (ii) increase the supply of basic commodities, and
(iii) benefit from the existence of well-run institutions and impose a minimum
burden on the Government budget. The proposed Sugar Rehabilitation Project
meets these criteria and has been included in the 1979-81 Lending Program as
a priority project capable of quick implementation.



-7-
C. The Sugar Sub-Sector
General
1.23      Sugarcane is grown all over Zaire but commercial production and
processing into mill-white sugar are concentrated in Kwilu-Ngongo (Bas-Zaire)
and Kiliba (Kivu) which together produce a total of about 500,000 tons of
sugarcane per annum. There are no precise data on smallholder sugarcane
production, but it is generally estimated to be between 200,000 and 300,000
tons per annum. This cane is used for chewing and for artisan production of
liquor. The Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Company has about 11,000 ha of sugarcane under
rain-fed cultivation and a theoretical milling capacity of about 40,000 tons
of sugar per annum. However, because most of its equipment needs to be
rehabilitated, Compagnie Sucriere can produce only about 38,000 tons of sugar
per annum. The Kiliba Sugar Company has about 2,400 ha of sugarcane under
irrigation and a milling capacity of about 18,000 tons of sugar per annum.
During the past decade, in both factories capacity output was achieved only in
1974 and 1975. Since then production has decreased again due to insufficient
supplies of materials and spare parts for the factories and agricultural inputs
for the plantations. Overall annual production of sugar averaged 50,000 tons
during the 1976-1979 period, while current domestic demand is estimated at
about 100,000 tons a year. Since no foreign exchange is available to fill
the gap (in 1977 only 9,400 tons of sugar were imported), acute shortages of
sugar occur periodically, particularly in the capital where demand is largest.
Demand is growing at an estimated 6% per year, without expansion of production,
therefore, the sugar deficit can be expected to rise to about 80,000 tons by
1985.
Government Strategy
1.24      The Zaire Government has adopted a two-fold strategy aimed at reach-
ing self-sufficiency for sugar; it consists of (a) rehabilitating the existing
factories and (b) establishing new sugar factories. The rehabilitation and
expansion of the facilities at Kwilu-Ngongo under the proposed Project would
be an integral part of this strategy. Five studies have been done by various
firms on the feasibility of establishing new estates in Haut-Zaire (Yawenda
project), Equateur, Bandundu (Mushi-Pentane project), Kasai (Luiza project)
and Shaba (Lubilashi project).
1.25      Implementation of the Yawenda project has started and about 100 ha
(out of 3,000 ha) have been cleared so far. The Yawenda project is designed
ultimately to produce 15,000 t of sugar annually. Agricultural and industrial
equipment is financed by the People's Republic of China. Although production
is scheduled to commence in 1983, it is expected that there will be substantial
delays because of the lack of counterpart funds and logistic problems. The
other projects would provide for the establishment of plantations of about
10,000 ha each, factories and all the related infrastructure with a milling
capacity of about 50,000 t per annum. Each of these projects might cost over
US$200 million, and their economic viability is doubtful. Government is
currently trying to secure foreign funds to finance these projects. However,
considering the growing demand and the long period necessary to implement



-8 -
projects of this type, there are no foreseeable risks that production would
exceed domestic demand. In order to reduce the likelihood of uneconomic
investments in the sugar sub-sector, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would continue to provide the Association with all information
about the sugar sub-sector including proposals to invest in sugarcane planta-
tions or factories, and the financial and economic justification of investment
proposals, and would give the Association the opportunity to comment on these
proposals.
D. Sugar Markets, Marketing and Prices
International Markets and Prices
1.26      Sugar Production.  Sugar is produced all over the world; production
reached a level of 92 million tons in 1978 and is expected to be about 90
million tons in 1980.  About 40% of world sugar production comes from sugar
beets, the rest from sugar cane. Over 40% of the world s sugar is produced
in developing countries, 30% in the industrialized countries, and the
remaining 30% is produced in the centrally planned economies. The largest
single sugar producing countries are the Soviet Union, Brazil, Cuba and the
United States, which together produced one-third of the world's sugar output.
1.27      International Trade and Prices.  About 25% of world sugar production
is traded internationally.  Half of world gross exports come from the develop-
ing countries, mainly Brazil and the Philippines. Over half of world imports
are absorbed by the industrialized countries, mainly the U.S. and Japan,
20% by the centrally planned economies, and the remaining 20 to 25% by the
developing countries. About 25% of internationally traded sugar is imported
to industrialized countries under special arrangements at prices significantly
higher than prices on the free market.
1.28      The world free market price of sugar is extremely volatile and is
closely related to world stocks. Prices are often doubled or halved in a
single year. The International Sugar Agreement (ISA) which entered into
force in 1978 reflects an attempt to limit these fluctuations. So far it
has had little effect on the market. Free market prices for sugar (in 1980
constant dollars) declined from a high of US$1,200/t in 1974 to US$215/t in
1978. Prices increased to US$235/t in 1979 and went up very sharply over
US$700/t in early 1980. High prices are expected to continue to prevail
during about two or three years, and then decline again. Over the long run,
sugar prices are expected to average about US$390/t.
The Domestic Market
1.29      Supply and Demand Outlook.  Sugar consumption in Zaire during the
last few years has averaged about 67,000 tons, approximately 20% of which
had to be imported. Processed sugar is presently supplied by the two sugar
factories, at Kwilu-Ngongo and Kiliba. The breakdown of the production and
imports for the period 1974-1979 is shown below:



-9-
---------------------------MT 000…-----------_--__________
Production                                   Total
Kwilu-Ngongo       Kiliba            Imports      Consumption
1974          44,100            18,400            14,400         76,900
1975          45,000            18,400             9,300         72,700
1976          35,600            10,200            24,500         70,300
1977          41,100            13,100             9,400         63,600
1978          36,100            12,000 e          10,500         58,600 e
1979           37,600           15,000 e          10,000 e       62,600 e
e = estimated
1.30      About 30% of the total sugar supply is used by industrial enterprises
for the production of beer, soft drinks, and confectionery; the balance is
used up by households for domestic consumption. The use of sugar and processed
products containing sugar, mainly by middle and high income groups, is heavily
concentrated in urban and industrial centers. Although per capita annual
consumption of manufactured sugar reaches 12-15 kg/year in Kinshasa and
Bas-Zaire, overall average per capita consumption of sugar in Zaire is one of
the lowest in the world at about 3 kg/year. At present sugar consumer prices
(para 1.33) and income levels in Zaire, domestic demand is estimated at about
100,000 tons/year, with a deficit of domestic production of about 50,000 tons.
Because of shortages of foreign exchange, imports of sugar have not been
sufficient in recent years to bridge the gap between production and demand,
and there have been continuous shortages of sugar on the market. Domestic
sugar consumption is limited mainly by sugar availability. In net exporting
developing countries consumption is about 40 kilograms per capita, and its
upward trend shows little sign of levelling off; in net importing developing
countries, such as Zaire, per capita consumption is very low, often no more
than five kilograms. There is therefore considerable room for expanding
domestic production and consumption in Zaire.
1.31      Market Structure.  The two sugar factories (para 1.29) sell to
industry and wholesalers who assume responsibility for transport and subse-
quent storage. Wholesalers then arrange distribution to consumers through
distributors and retailers. Most of the sugar produced by the factory in
Kwilu-Ngongo (Compagnie Sucriere) is sold in the province of Bas-Zaire (70%);
the rest is sold in Bandundu, Equateur, Kasai Occidental and Haut-Zaire.
The uneven distribution of sugar availability between provinces is due to the
concentration of the industries and population in Kinshasa (Bas-Zaire) which
are linked to the Kwilu-Ngongo factory by rail, and to the shortcomings of
the transport system in the other provinces. The sugar produced by the Kiliba
factory is sold in Kivu, Kasai Oriental and Shaba.
1.32      In 1975 and 1976, sugar was imported by ONDS (para 1.08) and in
1977 by the sugar companies. In May 1978, responsibility for sugar imports
was transferred to commercial firms selected by Government.
1.33      Prices.  Sugar prices are fixed by the Department of National
Economy, Industry and Commerce, as for other industrial production in Zaire.
The ex-factory price is set on the basis of an agreed cost of production, plus



- 10 -
a gross profit margin of 20%, which is liable to taxation at the rate of 50%.
The ex-factory production cost of the sugar produced at Compagnie Sucriere
was about US$445 equivalent per ton in 1979 (using the shadow exchange rate
of US$1.0 = Z 3.0) and is expected to decrease to about US$300 equivalent per
ton (1980 constant prices) in Project year 10, because of the economies of
scale achieved by expanding processing capacity. The C.I.F. cost of imported
sugar fluctuated between US$400 and US$770 per ton in 1979, and is expected
to be in the US$575-US$800 per ton range during the period 1980-1990. To the
ex-factory price a levy of Z 60/ton (about 5% of the 1979 ex-factory price)
is added and is used for the development of agriculture (Agricultural Recovery
Program, para 1.14) and is expected to be reviewed from time to time to
reflect general price increases in Zaire; in the particular case of Compagnie
Sucriere, a second levy is paid to the Department of National Economy to
equalize ex-factory prices between the Compagnie Sucriere and Kiliba factories.
This levy amounted to Z 63/ton in 1979. Wholesalers are allowed a 15% mark-up
on their costs (purchase price and transport cost), and retailers a mark-up of
12%. The regulations for ex-factory prices are respected. The prices paid at
the retailer and consumer levels cannot be efficiently controlled and because
of the shortage of sugar in Zaire, actual market prices vary widely. For
instance, in 1978 the price paid by consumers was, on average, twice the
official price and reached peaks of ten times the official price during short
periods. Speculation, however, should decrease with the expected increment
of about 27,000 tons per annum in sugar production under the proposed Project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that internal prices of sugar sold
in Zaire would be reviewed by Government whenever required and at least once a
year and after each significant change of the exchange rate and, when necessary,
promptly changed to allow the sugar companies to meet their costs and financial
obligations, and to make a reasonable return on investment.
TI. COMPAGNIE SUCRIERE
History and Ownership
2.01      Compagnie Sucriere was established at Kwilu-Ngongo (Bas Zaire) in
1925 as a privately owned Belgian company. In January 1974, as part of the
industrial nationalization program, Compagnie Sucriere was taken over by the
newly formed Office National du Sucre (ONDS).  The technical and financial
performance of Compagnie Sucriere deteriorated over the next three seasons
and, in December 1976, 60% of the capital and responsibility for management
were restored to the original owners. Since then, the management performance
of Compagnie Sucriere has been very good. Compagnie Sucriere is now owned
60% by the.Belgian company SOGESUCRE and 40% by Government. An agreement
on the amounts, timing and procedures for the payment of Government's 40%
share to SOGESUCRE was signed in December 1979 and approved by Government
in January 1980.



- il -
Organization and Management
2.02      Compagnie Sucriere's Board of Directors includes six representatives
of SOGESUCRE and four representatives of Governient, reflecting the capital
structure. The organization of Compagnie Sucriere is detailed in Chart 1.
Total staff numbers about 4,500, of which about 4,200 are laborers. About
half of this workforce originates from neighboring Angola, and is well inte-
grated with the local population. Government is expected to continue allowing
foreign workers to work on Compagnie Sucriere's estate. However, a change in
this practice would cause a critical labor shortage at Compagnie Sucriere.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would take all
necessary measures to enable Compagnie Sucriere to recruit and retain an
adequate labor force.
2.03      Most of the key positions are filled by expatriates.  However, the
company follows a policy of in-house training of Zairian nationals and the
number of expatriate personnel has decreased from about 45 before 1976 to 27
at present. The standards of management of the plantation and of the factory
are satisfactory. There is, however, a need for further staff training in
cane research, sugar technology, engineering, and factory operation procedures.
Infrastructure and Facilities
2.04      Kwilu-Ngongo is linked to Kinshasa (185 km) and to Matadi (170 km)
by rail and by a tarmac road (Map). Compagnie Sucriere's estate covers about
14,000 ha and includes 70 km of narrow gauge rail track, 250 km of main
plantation roads, 1,250 km of plantation tracks and 17 bridges; there is
also an airfield, and a telephone system operates alongside the railtrack.
Most of the agricultural, transportation, and factory equipment is in disrepair
because foreign exchange to purchase spareparts and to renew equipment has been
lacking for about five years.
2.05      Industrial buildings cover about 38,000 square meters.  In addition,
there are about 3,800 workers houses in 20 villages, one hospital with 230
beds, 15 dispensaries, 22 stores for the retail of basic goods, 17 primary
schools, and six social clubs.
Cane Production, Harvesting and Transport
2.06      The total cultivated area is about 11,200 ha, of which about 10,800
ha are under cane, and the remaining 400 ha under foodcrops. Although there
are about 50 varieties of cane in the collection plots, one single variety
occupies about 85% of the total area under cane. The choice of this variety
was dictated by its steady yield throughout the crop cycle and its resistance
to drought and smut disease, which is the main disease prevalent in the
Project area. Although Compagnie Sucriere's fields are free of any major
cane disease, the prevalence of a single variety is risky; if a new disease
to which that variety were susceptible broke out, the financial consequences
could be catastrophic. Under the proposed Project, new varieties would be
identified and planted to decrease this risk.



- 12 -
2.07      Plant canes have consistently received adequate fertilizer.  In the
case of ratoons, however, only nitrogen has been applied since 1974, and no
fertilizers were applied to ratoons in 1978, because they were not available
locally and there was no foreign exchange to import them. Filter muds are not
regularly applied to the fields because of a shortage of transport equipment
nor is any pre-emergence herbicidal treatment presently done on the estate,
although trials are under way. Post-emergence chemical weed control was used
to only a small extent from 1973 to 1977, when not more than 10% of the total
area was treated. Because the cropping cycle was temporarily reduced from 18
months to 12 months between 1974 and 1976, and because of insufficient use of
herbicides, weed growth on the estate increased significantly and about 30% of
the area had to be treated in 1978.
2.08      The area harvested increased from about 5,850 ha in 1969 to 8,300 ha
in 1978, with cane yields averaging 67 t/ha (ranging between 50 and 100 t/ha),
and sugar yields averaging 10% (ranging between 9% and 11%). All fields are
burnt before cutting which is carried out entirely by hand. The fields
richest in sucrose are harvested first after cane sampling and analysis.
The present method of sampling needs to be improved because only a very
snmall number of canes is sampled. Trials are under way to test the effects
of various ripeners on the sucrose content throughout the harvesting season
(May-December). Conclusive results, however, will be available.only after
several years. Cut canes are loaded mechanically onto trailers attached to
tractors which either take these to transloading stations for loading onto
wagons, to be carried by rail to the factory (80% of the cane) or directly to
the factory (20% of the cane). The plantation's rail system is the principal
means of transporting cane, limestone and fertilizer internally; it includes
70 km of 60 cm gauge railtrack, a fleet of 10 operating locomotives, and 570
wagons with a capacity of about 3.5 tons of cane each.
2.09      Cane transport operations face a number of problems which frequently
result in irregular supplies of cane to the factory. Some of the tractors
utilized for pulling the trailers are not sufficiently powerful, which results
in a high rate of mechanical failure. Most of the trailers have a single axle
(the only type available in Zaire) and are too weak for cane transport. There
are delays at transloading points to the railtrack because of a shortage of
wagons and of storage capacity. Only 10 locomotives out of 17 are in operating
conditions for want of spare parts. Capacity for on-field maintenance of
equipment is insufficient. The proposed Project would aim at solving these
problems, which all have their source in Compagnie Sucriere's lack of foreign
exchange resources.
Agricultural Research
2.10      Before the nationalization measures in 1974 (para 1.10), research and
agricultural trials were regularly carried out. These activities were almost
abandoned between 1974 and 1976, and have not yet resumed to a satisfactory
level. There is at present no research agronomist at the Compagnie Sucriere
and consequently, no organized research is carried out. Some investigations
are made on variety collection plots, but the trials have not been properly
designed and replicated; no large scale planting program could be launched on
that basis. Under the proposed Project, properly designed trials would be
carried out on all relevant aspects of sugar cane production on the estate
(para 3.10).



- 13 -
The Factory
2.11      The Factory, in general, is spaciously designed, with ample room
for future expansion. Despite the fact that spare parts are in short supply
and that some machinery has exceeded its life expectancy, the factory as a
whole is in . fair state of repair and is maintained where possible with parts
produced in the factory workshop. The workshop, however, is unsatisfactorily
equipped and is too cramped.  The factory operates on an average net time
efficiency of 92%, which is comparable to normal standards. Factory stoppage
is due mainly to temporary shortages of canes, due to breakdown in the trans-
port system, followed by boiler problems, and breakdowns at the pumping
station. At present, the factory has an overall capacity to produce about
38,000 tons of sugar in a 155-day season, about three million liters of
alcohol and 500 tons of carbon dioxide. This production capacity, however,
could be maintained only if a substantial part of the present equipment is
replaced (para 1.23).
Other Activities
2.12      Besides the production and processing of sugar cane, and the market-
ing of sugar, Compagnie Sucriere carries out a program aimed at promoting
rural development and food production in the Project area financed from the
Economic Recovery Fund (para 1.16), the use of which is defined in an agreement
between Compagnie Sucriere and Government signed in August 1978. The program
is intended to promote smallholder production of manioc, maize, soya beans and
rice and the development of livestock. At December 1978, the fund amounted
to about Z 1.2 million (US$800,000), which was to be used to (i) conduct
trials on food crops, (ii) establish a chicken farm, (iii) assist smallholder
development and (iv) provide social services in the area of the estate. The
implementation of these activities has started; the food crop trials are being
carried out; an operation "self-subsistence" has been successfully launched
to assist plantation workers in growing their own food crops, by allocating
land, distributing seeds, preparing the fields before planting, and providing
incentives to the workers such as leave to plant the fields; 40 ha of irrigated
vegetables have been developed and the poultry units are being expanded to
house 10,000 laying hens.
2.13      Compagnie Sucriere has plans for a number of foodcrop production
schemes, including the pilot development of about 3,000 ha in the Luala
valley (at about 150 km from Kwilu-Ngongo) where it is estimated that up to
26,000 ha could be ultimately developed, and the development of several other
smaller valleys. Funds would be included under the proposed Project to help
Compagnie Sucriere to finance pilot projects of this nature (para 3.14).
Social Services
2.14      About 60,000 people derive their livelihood from Compagnie Sucriere's
agro-industrial estate. Medical services are provided to these people as well
as to people in the surrounding areas not related to estate employees (para
2.05). The hospital is adequately supplied. The hospital and the 15 dispen-
saries give about 250,000 consultations every year, and about 5,000 patients



- 14 -
are hospitalized. Nutrition education is provided at the maternity complex
(about 1,000 births each year) to mothers and young children and significant
progress has been made in initiating the local population to the cultivation
and consumption of soya beans. The estate population has access to 22 small
stores which sell basic commodities such as rice, beans, oil palm, milk and
lamp oil to the workers. The 17 primary schools have an enrollment of about
1,800 children.
Reports, Accounts and Audit
2.15      Compagnie Sucriere continuously monitors and records all the data
related to its operations in detail and up-to-date information is available
to management at all times. Accounts are issued regularly at the end of each
financial year. At present, Compagnie Sucriere rents a computer (IBM 1130)
which carries out the following operations:
(i) payroll (about 4,500 people) and imputation of salaries
to various activities' accounts, and keeping employees
accounts for savings, social security and taxes;
(ii) billing of customers (over 250 accounts);
(iii) inventory management (34,000 stock items); and
(iv) ordering of supplies.
Compagnie Sucriere is currently implementing a cost accounting system which
should enable it to improve management and reduce production costs. The
IBM 1130 system, however, is obsolete and the procurement of spare parts is
expected to be difficult in the future. An improved data processing system
would be implemented under the proposed Project (para 3.13).
2.16      The accounts are audited each year by two of the Company-s staff,
one on behalf of the parent company (SOGESUCRE), and the other on behalf
of Government. In addition, an accountant from the parent company visits
the estate every year to verify the internal audit and to provide general
advice to the accounting department. There is no external audit. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA (para 3.16).



- 15 -
Financial Situation
2.17      Recent sales and financial data for Compagnie Sucriere are summarized
below.
Compagnie Sucriere: Financial Indicators
1977         1978        1979
-tons' 000---------
Income Statements and Cash Flow
Sugar Production                                  41.2          36.1        37.7
Sugar Sales 1/                                    45.5         39.6         33.9
----------Z million----------
Gross Sales                                       18.6          17.9        52.7
Production Costs                                  14.5          18.6        38.5
Interest                                           0.3          0.5          0.8
Depreciation                                       0.6           2.5         5.4
Net Income (Loss) before Taxes                     3.2          (4.0)        8.7
Net Income (Loss) after Taxes                       1.6         (4.0)        6.3
Net Cash Flow                                       2.2         (1.5)       11.7
Debt Service                                       0.3           0.3         0.2
Balance Sheets (December 31)
Current Assets                                    18.2          14.5        32.1
Cash Reserves                                      7.7           6.1        12.7
Current Liabilities                                8.1           8.5        14.1
Net Fixed Assets                                   4.2           9.8         9.9
Long-Term Debt                                     0.7           0.4         3.5
Capital                                           13.7          11.7        24.5
Ratios:
Current Ratio                                      2.2           1.7         2.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                                   5:95         3:97       12:88
1/   Sales differ from production because of stock adjustments.



- 16 -
2.18      The losses incurred in 1978 are due to Compagnie Sucriere's inability
to raise the price of sugar while unit production costs rose by about 45%
above the costs of the previous year because of inflation. The ex-factory
price of sugar is set by law to allow a profit margin of 20% to the factory
(para 1.33). However, the price for the 1978 season was set on the basis
of the previous years and proved too low; it was not adjusted in time.
Agreement on price adjustment covenants were obtained at negotiations to
maintain Compagnie Sucriere's sound financial situation (para. 1.33).
2.19      The main financial constraint on Compagnie Sucriere's operations
is the difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange to purchase agricultural
inputs, spare parts and supplies, and to replace equipment. The Government
has indicated that a mechanism for allocating foreign exchange to Compagnie
Sucriere would be established so that operating requirements can be met.
This mechanism was discussed with Government and Compagnie Sucriere during
negotiations and is satisfactory. The details would be specified in a sub-
sidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between Government and
Compagnie Sucriere.
1II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would be implemented over four years on the Compagnie
Sucriere's sugarcane plantation and estate in Kwilu-Ngongo, Bas Zaire, about
185 km southwest of Kinshasa. The Project's implementation schedule is shown
in Chart 2.  After five years annual capacity for output of processed sugar
would be increased by about 27,000 tons from 38,000 tons to 65,000 tons, all
for domestic consumption. The Project would include:
(a) the rehabilitation of the existing plantation (early
replanting) and its extension from about 10,800 to about
13,500 ha;
(b) the provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation,
and harvesting;
(c) the provision of equipment for sugarcane transport and
plantation track maintenance, the modification of some
existing transport equipment, and infrastructure (about
10 km of rail track);
(d)  the rehabilitation and expansion of cane processing facilities;
(e) the construction of various civil works related to extension of
the factory and construction of offices, social infrastructure
facilities and staff and workers accommodation;



- 17 -
(f)  the design and implementation of an applied sugarcane research
program;
(g)  the recruitment of technical assistants and local staff for
the detailed design, assembly and start-up operations of the
fac ory extensions and for the agricultural research program;
(h)  training of local staff;
(i)  the installation of an improved electronic data processing
system; and
(j)  pilot projects to promote food crop production and improve
the living conditions of the rural population.
B. Detailed Features
Plantation Rehabilitation and Extension
3.02      The Project would be implemented and managed by Compagnie Sucriere
(Chapter II). The Project would provide for the rehabilitation of the existing
plantations which were damaged between 1974 and 1976. This would include the
early replanting of about 8,000 ha (sub-soiling, plowing, harrowing, ridging
and planting) and adequate fertilizing and weed control on the total plantation
area of 10,800 ha. An additional 2,700 ha of yet undeveloped land (Map) would
be prepared and planted with cane. Project investments would be for the
replacement of obsolete machinery, and new purchases for land clearing and
preparation, maintenance of fields, application of filter muds, fertilizers
and herbicides, and for loading and transport of cane.
3.03      The agricultural and plantation maintenance equipment purchases
under the Project would include tractors of various types, agricultural
implements such as plows, harrows, sprayers, a crop spraying aircraft, and
equipment for the irrigation of 200 ha for cane nurseries and research (para
3.10). Loading and transport equipment would include cane loaders, trailers,
cranes, wagons (new wagons and modification of existing ones to increase their
capacity), 250 HP locomotives, mobile workshops and track maintenance equipment.
The existing narrow-gauge rail track would be extended by 10 km to serve the
plantation extensions (Map).
Processing Facilities
3.04      The present processing facilities are described in para. 2.11.
All parts of the factory would be rehabilitated in varying degrees and, where
appropriate, expanded to raise the overall processing capacity to 65,000 tons
per annum.



- 18 -
3.05      Mill Tandems.  Cane is presently milled at two milling trains with a
capacity of 2,000 and 1,500 tons of cane per day (tpd) respectively. Project
activities would include modificaiton of the 2,000-tpd mill; its power would
be increased, the rollers grooved, and a shredder, electromagnet and screens
would be installed. The 1,500-tpd mill is too old to be economically repar-
able.  It would be replaced by a new mill tandem (five mills) with a capacity
of 3,000 tpd, together with the auxiliary equipment (shredder, bagasse carrier,
electrical and mechanical equipment, steel work).  The resulting capacity of
5,000 tpd combined with a milling season of 155 days would be largely suffi-
cient to process the expected crop of 650,000 tons of cane and adequate for
processing the larger crops (up to about 750,000 tons) which are expected
occasionally to occur.
3.06      Steam Generation.  There are at present three boilers, each with a
design capacity of 25 tons of steam per hour, two of which require a complete
overhaul, and the third of which needs repair. These boilers would be
rehabilitated under the Project. In addition, a new boiler with a capacity of
about 70 tons per hour would be installed to meet the factory's total steam
requirements.
3.07      Electrical Generation.  There are at present two turbo-alternators,
one with an output of 1,000 kw, the other with 1,500 kw. To meet future power
demands in the mill and the factory, an additional 3,000 kw turbo-alternator
would be provided under the Project.
3.08      Other Components.  The Project would also contain provisions for
modification of the cane reception area (feeder tables, cane carriers, cranes,
steel-works) and rehabilitation and modification of the clarification, lime
preparation, evaporation, crystallization, and centrifugation sections of the
factory. Workshop equipment would be provided and the two pumping stations
would be rehabilitated.
Building and Civil Works
3.09      Civil works investments under the proposed Project would be to extend
the factory's garages, storage facilities, workshops and offices. Thirty-four
houses for new professional and mid-level staff, about one thousand workers'
houses would be constructed and the hospital expanded from 230 to 300 beds.
Basic infrastructure for a 300-family workers' village (dispensary, school,
store, water supply) would be provided.
Research Program
3.10      The Project would include an applied sugar cane research program.
This program would consist of trials on varieties, fertilizer requirements,
herbicide treatment, effect of ripeners, and cultural practices. As the
plantation is at present entirely rainfed, production might be significantly
increased by irrigation. The research program would therefore also include
irrigation trials on about 200 ha to determine the yield response to irri-
gation and assess the economic viability of different methods of irrigating
the cane. To implement this program, the Project would provide for the
employment of a research agronomist and of short-term consultants and for the
purchase of irrigation and laboratory equipment. Compagnie Sucriere would



- 19 -
prepare annual work programs for research, which would be submitted to
the Association for its review and approval before June 30 of each year.
Assurances to this effect were received at negotiations.
Recruitment of Staff and Training
3.11      Additional local and expatriate staff would be recruited to prepare
the detailed designs for the factory extension and the tender documents, to
supervise construction, assist in start-up operations, and carry out the
additional work resulting from the increase in production. The local staff
would be increased by fourteen professionals:  five engineers, eight techni-
cians, and one doctor, about 160 skilled workers and 750 laborers. Fifteen
technicians and a research agronomist would be recruited internationally to
serve with Compagnie Sucriere for up to five years, totalling 65 man-years.
Seven of these technicians are expected to be recruited shortly to prepare
detailed designs and tender documents, under the Project Preparation Facility
which was approved in January 1980 (para 4.07). The Project would also
provide for short-term consultancy services, totalling 2.5 man-years (para
3.15). Assurances were received at Credit negotiations that (i) Government
would permit the internationally recruited staff to remit an adequate portion
of their salaries to their respective countries, and that (ii) their qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfac-
tory to the Association.
3.12      Some difficulties are expected in recruiting fully qualified pro-
fessionals locally and staff with limited experience would have to be relied
upon. They would be trained by the technical assistants whom they would
replace after about five years. A detailed training program including
extended visits to industrial sugar estates outside Zaire would be prepared
by Compagnie Sucriere, and submitted to the Association for its review and
approval by June 30, 1981. Assurances to this effect were received at
negotiations.
Data Processing
3.13      Compagnie Sucriere processes payroll, billing of customers, and
inventory management on obsolete data processing equipment (para 2.15). An
improved data processing and management information system would be installed
under the Project. Compagnie Sucriere is currently preparing a detailed
proposal for implementation of this system, which will include proposals for
both software and hardware modifications to the present system. This detailed
study would be submitted to the Association for its review and comments, and
disbursements for this component would be contingent upon the Association's
approval of Compagnie Sucriere's proposals.
Pilot Projects
3.14      Compagnie Sucriere has initiated a number of pilot projects aimed
at promoting smallholder production and financed from the proceeds of the
economic recovery fund surcharge levied on sugar sales (para 2.12). However,
the implementation of these pilot projects is constrained by the lack of
foreign exchange financing, since the economic recovery fund provides only
local currency.  The proposed Project would include funds to provide foreign



- 20 -
exchange to carry out pilot projects aimed at testing the feasibility of
larger undertakings, such as the development of the Luala valley (26,000 ha)
for the growing of food crops (para 2.13). The financing of such projects
by the Association would provide a useful forum for a continuous dialogue
with the Government on the development of the Bas Zaire region generally. To
become eligible for disbursement under the Project, each of the pilot projects
proposed by Compagnie Sucriere would be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval.
C. Organization and Management
3.15      Compagnie Sucriere would have overall responsibility for carrying
out the Project; its organization is detailed in Chart 1. A satisfactory
organization for Project execution has been developed and is being progres-
sively built up. Detailed Project design, procurement, construction and
assembly would be carried out by a Project team in a division specially
established for this purpose and adequately staffed (para 3.11). The various
other departments of Compagnie Sucriere and outside consultants would provide
support to the Project team as required. Agricultural and processing activi-
ties would continue to be carried out according to the present organization
structure which is satisfactory. The success of the proposed Project depends
heavily on the continued good performance of Compagnie Sucriere-s management
and on the efficiency of the decision making process in Compagnie Sucriere.
This process, including the respective voting rights of the shareholders, is
described in Compagnie Sucriere's statutes. The statutes of Compagnie Sucriere
and of SOGESUCRE are currently being revised. A condition of credit effective-
ness would be that these statutes have been revised in a manner satisfactory
to the Association. Assurances were obtained from Government at credit nego-
tiations that, until December 31, 1990 (i) no changes in Compagnie Sucriere's
management structure and ownership would be made without prior approval of the
Association, and (ii) the position of General Manager (Administrateur-Delegue)
would continue to be filled by a person with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
D. Accounts and Audit
3.16      Compagnie Sucriere's financial reporting is timely and satisfactory
(para 2.15). At present, the accounts are only audited internally, but
since several auditing firms acceptable to the Association are established
in Kinshasa, no difficulties are anticipated in carrying out regular external
audits also. Assurances were obtained at credit negotiations that (i) Compagnie
Sucriere's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, that (ii) Compagnie Sucriere would send the audited accounts to
the Association no later than six months after the end of Compagnie Sucriere's
fiscal year, and that (iii) Compagnie Sucriere would maintain separate accounts
for the Project.



- 21 -
E. Environment and Occupational Health
3.17      The Project would be implemented with due regard to the environment
and to occupational health. The main potential environmental problem is the
release into the river Kwilu of factory effluents. Occupational health
iF       problems could arise from accidents and possibly from exposure to toxic
chemicals, fumes and dust, particularly in the factory.
3.18      Almost all the molasses produced is used for alcohol production;
occasional non-marketable surpluses are dumped into the fields.  Vinasse,
the by-product of alcohol distillation, was discharged into the river Kwilu at
the time of appraisal. However, Compagnie Sucriere's representatives indicated
during negotiations that physical arrangements had been made so that vinasse
was no longer discharged into the river. Filter muds are pumped into sedi-
mentation ponds, some liquid also draining into the Kwilu. The actual amount
of effluents discharged is not known. The sedimentation ponds do not provide
breeding sites for insects because of the high calcium content of the residues.
The dried filter muds are applied to the fields. Most of the bagasse produced
is burned to generate steam and electricity, and there is no evidence of
pollution caused by surplus bagasse. Under the Project, the water quality in
the river would be monitored by regular sampling and analysis and Compagnie
Sucriere would take appropriate action if necessary to ensure that its activi-
ties do not materially affect the environment. To this effect, Compagnie
Sucriere would submit to the Association for its review and approval (î)
before June 30, 1981, a proposal for the monitoring of the water quality of
the Kwilu River downstream of the factory, and (ii) before December 31, 1981,
a proposal to control, to the extent appropriate, the adverse effects of the
factory effluents and residues on the environment. Assurances to this effect
were received at Credit negotiations.
3.19      There are no undue occupational health hazards.  Health hazards are
monitored by Compagnie Sucriere and their consequences are minimized by the
availability of good health facilities on the estate.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Costs
4.01      Total Project costs are estimated at about US$80.4 million equiva-
lent, the foreign exchange component of which is about US$63.8 million, or
about 80%. The goods imported under the Project would be imported free of
taxes and duties and the above cost estimates include only negligible amounts
of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally procured goods. The following
Table is a summary of these costs, with a more detailed breakdown appearing in
Table 1.



- 22 -
Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange    Cost
---- (US$ Million) ----          %           %
Equipment                            1.4       39.3     40.7        97          63
Civil Works                          6.5        2.8      9.3        30          14
Agricultural Inputs                  0.2        5.0      5.2        97           8
Staff and Professional Services    4.7          2.7      7.4        36          il
Training                             -          0.5      0.5       100           1
Pilot Projects                       0.4        1.6      2.0        80           3
TOTAL BASE COST                     13.2       51.9     65.1        80         100
Physical Contingencies               1.2        4.1      5.3        77           8
Price Contlngencies                  2.2        7.8     10.0        78          15
TOTAL COST                          16.6       63.8     80.4        79         123
4.02      Estimates for the cost of plantation equipment valued at about US$21
million are based on pro-forma invoices received by Compagnie Sucriere and
adjusted for inflation as at July 1980. Estimates for the cost of factory
equipment (US$28 million) are based on actual bids. The costs of civil works,
salaries, incremental agricultural inputs, and pilot projects and training
are based on Compagnie Sucriere's recent experience and on the mission's
estimates. The average man-month cost of resident expatriate staff (para
3.11), based on individual fees, international travel and local allowances,
is expected to be about US$6,000. The average man-month cost of short-term
consultancy services would be about US$9,500. The total cost of expatriate
professional services would be about US$5.0 million, or 6% of the total
Project cost. No significant increases in permanent working capital would be
required, as present inventories of consumables would be sufficient for the
expanded processing capacity, and because the equipment would be purchased
with an adequate initial stock of spare parts. Physical contingencies were
applied at the rate of 10% of the costs of equipment and civil works to
reflect general uncertainty about the detailed scope of Project investments.
Contingencies for price escalation at the annual rates of 10.5% for 1980, 9%
for 1981, 8% for 1982, and 7% thereafter were applied on a cumulative basis
on the cost of all goods and services for which no firm bid is available. For
equipment covered in the bids which have been received, calculations were made
on the basis of the price variation clauses. It was assumed that the progres-
sive devaluation of the Zaire currency would compensate for the increase in
local costs.
Financing
4.03      The sources of funds to finance the Project are summarized below
and are shown in more detail in Table 2:



- 23 -
US$ Milllon            %
IDA                          26.4               33
CCCE                         27.4               34
Sub-Total               53.8               67
Compagnie Sucriere           26.6               33
TOTAL                   80.4              100
4.04      The Project's direct foreign exchange costs would be financed on a
parallel basis by the Association and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE-France). CCCE approved its financing for the Project in October 1980.
Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that (1) the subsidiary agreement
between Government and Compagnie Sucriere defining inter alia the on-lending
arrangements of the proceeds of the Credit is effective, and that (ii) loan
agreements between Compagnie Sucriere and CCCE are effective.
4.05      The IDA Credit would be made to Government on standard terms.  All
the proceeds, including those for the implementation of pilot projects, would
on-lent to Compagnie Sucriere at an interest rate of 15% per annum. The
maturity of the sugar plantation and factory investments would be 15 years
including 5 years of grace. The maturity of the loans for pilot projects
would be determined on a case-by-case basis during Project implementation.
Compagnie Sucriere would take the foreign exchange risk. The proposed interest
rate of 15% is that which would be charged by SOFIDE to its sub-borrowers
under the Fifth SOFIDE Project (para 1.21). Although our projections indicate
that inflation in Zaire over the next three years may be about 50% in 1980,
tapering down to 30% by 1982 onwards, the proposed interest rate is positive
in real terms because Compagnie Sucriere would take the foreign exchange risk
(para. 5.06). The CCCE loans would bear a combined interest rate of 12%, wlth
a maturity of 15 years including 5 years of grace.
Procurement
4.06      All the costs quoted in this paragraph include provisions for the
purchase of an adequate stock of spare parts where appropriate and for physical
and price contingencies. For the IDA-financed portion of the Project, procure-
ment through international competitive bidding would be about US$18.2 million.
This would include the procurement of agrlcultural tractors, trailers and
equipment (US$9.7 million), crawler tractors (US$2.8 million), locomotives
(US$1.4 million), steel, wagons and the extension of the plantation's railtrack
(US$4.3 million). Some equipment with an aggregate value of about US$3.7 mil-
lion would be purchased directly from specific suppliers, because standardiza-
tion of this equipment and of spare parts is necessary. This would include
plantation and road maintenance equipment (US$0.6 million), agricultural
equipment (US$1.8 million), data processing equipment (US$0.8 million) and
miscellaneous items with a total value of US$0.5 million. Civil works valued
at about US$12.6 mlllion would be carried out by Compagnie Sucriere. The
goods and services financed entirely by Compagnie Sucriere would be purchased



- 24 -
following commercial practices. They include (1) civil works construction
labor and materials valued at US$12.6 million and (il) agricultural lnputs
valued at US$6.4 million. Draft tender documents for all contracts expected
to cost in excess of US$300,000 would be submitted to the Association for
approval before invitations are issued, and tender analysis for comment,
before contracts are awarded. Compagnie Sucriere would employ local staff
and labor (US$4.0 million) to carry out the Project and technical assistants
and consultants for engineering and construction supervlsion (US$5.0 million).
Their terms of reference, qualification, experience and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Association.  Most of the factory
equipment, with an aggregate value of about US$28.0 million, would be financed
on a parallel basis by CCCE, and procurement would be in accordance with lts
guidelines.
Disbursements
4.07      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed to cover 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures on the following basis:
SDR
(1)  Equipment and steel             13,720,000 (US$18.0 million)
(2)  Technical assistance              1,760,000 (US$2.3 million)
(3)  Training                           390,000 (US$0.5 million)
(4)  Pilot projects                    1,150,000 (US$1.5 million)
(5)  Data processing equipment           390,000 (US$0.5 million)
(6) Refunding of advance for
preparation of Project             540,000 (US$0.7 million)
(7)  Unallocated                      2,250,000 (US$2.9 million)
Total Credit          20,200,000 (US$26.4 million)
An advance of US$675,000 on the Credit under the Project Prepara-
tion Facility was approved in January 1980 to finance the cost of seven
internationally recruited technicians, consulting services, and office
and drawing equipment to prepare the Project's detailed design and tender
documents. This advance would be refunded out of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit. All disbursements would be against contracts and would be fully
documented.  The credit would be disbursed over a period of five years.
An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Basic Assumptions
5.01      Financial projections are based on Compagnie Sucriere's results for
the year 1979. Prices were converted into US$ equivalent at the exchange rate
prevailing in July 1979 (US$1.0 = Z1.5). Sugar prices were set according to
regulations in Zaire on the basis of production costs (including depreciation
and interest) plus a 20% profit margin.



- 25 -
Financial Projections
5.02      Detailed projections of Compagnie Sucriere's income statements,
cash-flows and balance sheets are in Tables 4, 5 and 6, and are summarized
below.
Compagnie Sucriere: Projected Financial Indicators
Project Years
1       2        3       5       10
-------------tons' 000-----------
Income Statements and Cash Flow
Sugar Sales                        38       45      45       65       65
------…US$ million equivalent-------
Gross Sales                        38.9    47.4    54.0    70.7    68.8
Production Costs                   29.3    35.0    36.8    51.6    49.0`
Interest                            1.1      3.6     5.8      7.3      4.2
Depreciation                        2.0      0.9      2.4     4.1      4.1
Net Income before Taxes             6.5      7.9      9.0    11.8    11.5
Net Income after Taxes              3.3      4.0      4.5     5.9      5.7
Net Cash Flow                       6.3      1.1      3.3    10.7      4.5
Debt Service                         -        -        -       -       5.3
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    18.0
Accumulated Cash Surplus           14.8    15.9    19.2    35.1    57.9
Current Liabilities                 6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0    11.3
Net Fixed Assets                   15.1    41.0    52.2    53.6    33.1
Long-Term Debt                     14.9    37.9    47.9    53.8    27.3
Capital                            19.0    23.0    27.5    38.9    70.4
Ratios
Current                             1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6
Debt/Equity                       44:56   62:38   63:37   58:42    28:72
Debt Service Coverage                -        -        -       -       1.8
The projections of revenues are based on reasonable assumptions as to the
build-up of output to normal operating capacity of 65,000 tons of sugar per
annum in Project year 5. The plant would be designed to handle a maximum
capacity of 75,000 tons which would be necessary to handle the larger crops
which are expected occasionally to occur.



- 26 -
5.03      A cash build-up occurs in the projections because they do not
include provision for dividend payments and do not assume reinvestment
of depreciation in the form of future lnvestment expenditures. The cash
build-up would provide a financial buffer to reduce the cash-flow problems
which might result from devaluations (para 5.06). The debt to equity ratio
would increase from about nil at present to slightly above 60:40 in Project
years 2 and 3, and decrease progressively thereafter. The financial position
of Compagnie Sucriere is expected to be good throughout the Project imple-
mentation period.
5.04      In order to maintain Compagnie Sucriere's sound flnancial position,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (1) until the Completion
Date, Compagnie Sucrlere would not pay dividends to its shareholders; (ii)
until the Completion Date, Compagnie Sucriere would not invest ln assets not
directly related with Project implementation above US$500,000 equivalent
during each of its financial years without prior approval of the Association;
(iii) Compagnie Sucriere would maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than
70:30 before the Completion Date, and not greater than 60:40 on the Completion
Date and thereafter; (iv) Compagnie Sucriere would maintain at all times a
current ratio of at least 1.5:1; (v) Compagnie Sucriere would not contract any
debt if, on the basis of financial projections prepared by Compagnie Sucriere
and acceptable to the Association, its projected debt service coverage ratio
would be less than 1.5:1; and (vi) Government and SOGESUCRE would provide
Compagnie Sucriere with sufficient funds, in the ratio of their shares of
Compagnie Sucriere in the event Compagnie Sucriere could not provide suffi-
cient funds to complete the Project. For the application of these covenants,
Completion Date means the date on which the productive facilities included in
the Project have been in satisfactory operation during a period of six months
and on which 60,000 tons of sugar have been produced by the Project facilities
during one year. The Completion Date is expected to be June 30, 1986.
Financial Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.05      Based on the above projections, the base financial rate of return
of the Project would be 12.5% before and 9.5% after taxes. These rates of
return are based on realistic capital and operating costs, and revenue assump-
tions, and include physical contingencies on capital costs. Costs and benefits
streams used for the calculation of the financial rate of return in constant
terms are shown in Table 7. The capital costs, however, do not include
housing and social investments (valued at about US$6.3 million in 1980 prices)
the benefits of which cannot be quantified. The financial return would not be
adversely affected by increases in production costs due to price increases or
lower than expected productivity, because sugar prices are set by law to such
level that would enable the producing company to make a gross profit margin
of 20% (para 1.33). The financial rate of return is moderately sensitive to
capital costs. A 10% increase of the capital costs would reduce the financial
rate of return by about 2 percentage points. A 10% decrease of the capital
costs would increase the financial rates of return by about 2 percentage
points.



- 27 -
Financial Risks
5.06      Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The main
financial risk would result from the devaluations which are expected to take
place in Zaire from time to time. The main effects of these devaluations
would be (1) to increase the cost of production inputs while the sugar price
would remain set at its pre-devaluation level and (ii) to increase the local
currency value of Compagnie Sucriere s debt service, which could result in
short-term cash flow problems. The risk of a sudden increase in production
cost with fixed sugar prices would be substantially reduced by the provision
of an ample stock of spare parts and production inputs, and by the pricing
covenant described at para 1.33. The short-term cash-flow problems generated
by increased debt-service due to a devaluation would be reduced by the accumula-
tion of appropriate reserves. The general risks associated with the Project
are described at para 6.07.
Government Cash Flow and Foreign Exchange Earnings
5.07      The Government cash flow is shown in Table 8.  The net cash flow
would be positive each year, and average US$3.5 million equivalent (in constant
1980 terms) each year from Project year 1 to Project year 20. These projec-
tions do not take into account the dividends that Government may receive after
Project completion. Government's net foreign exchange earnings derived from
the Project would always be positive and would average about US$7.5 million
annually (in 1980 constant prices) after Project year 5.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Summary Economic Benefits and Justification
6.01      The Project would support Government's objective to increase sugar
production, all for domestic consumption, by (1) preventing a drop in the
production capacity of Compagnie Sucriere's present facilities and by (ii)
expanding the production capacity of these facilities. This would result in
increasing Zaire's sugar production by 27,000 tons of sugar, which represents
half of its present total production. The Project would provide employment
for about 750 additional workers.
6.02      The basic economic rate of return (ERR) after deduction of the
benefits which may accrue to non-Zairians, would be 17.5%. Foreign exchange
was shadow priced 1/.  If foreign exchange were not shadow priced, the ERR
would decrease by 6 percentage points.
Basic Assumptions
6.03      The economic life of the Project is assumed to be 20 years. The rate
of return analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments, replace-
ments and operation and maintenance costs directly related to production.
1/   At the rate of US$1.0 = Z 3.0.



- 28 -
6.04      Assumptions on capital and recurrent costs are in paras. 4.02 and
4.03.  Costs do not include price contingencies, taxes and transfer payments.
Physical contingencies, however, are included in the calculations of the
economic rates of return.
6.05      The calculation of benefits is based on the import-substitution
value of sugar. Assumptions regarding international sugar prices are ln para.
1.28. Costs and benefits streams used for the calculation of the rates of
return are shown in Table 9. The summary of the sensitivity analysis is in
Table 10.
Sensltivity Analysis
6.06      A decrease of international sugar prices of 10% during the entire
Project life would reduce the ERR from 17.5% to 14.5%. An increase of 10%
of capital costs would decrease the ERR from 17.5% to 16%.  An increase of
10% of recurrent costs would decrease the ERR to 16%. A delay of one year
in the realization of benefits, wlth an accompanying delay of variable produc-
tion costs, and no delay in capital and fixed costs, would reduce the ERR
from 17.5% to 15.5%. A reduction of the production to 90% of capacity would
decrease the ERR from 17.5% to 15%. The switching values for the Project,
using an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, are as follows: 20% for the
benefits, and 50% for capital costs and operating costs.
Risks
6.07      The Project faces few technical, commercial and managerial risks
which could affect Its economic and financial viabillty. Technical risks
regarding plant design and operations are low because (1) only well estab-
lished sugar technology would be used in the Project, (il) the Project would
be implemented by Compagnie Sucriere's staff who have adequate expertise,
and (iii) projections were based on the actual past performance of Compagnie
Sucriere. The risk of a sugar cane disease outbreak are considered low in
view of past experience and would be reduced by the diversification of cane
varieties (para 2.06). There are some risks of delays in Project implementa-
tion due to the general working conditions ln Zaire. This, however, would not
materially affect the Project's viability. Commercial risks are low given the
present shortage of sugar in Zaire. The risks of unsatisfactory management
performance are minimal as long as a competent management team remains in
control. Adequate assurances were obtained at negotiations to this effect
(para 3.15). The risk of difficulties in maintainlng an adequate workforce
on the estate (para 2.02) would also be reduced by the Government's commltment
to the Project.  The risk of delays in receiving sufficient foreign exchange
to cover the operating costs of Compagnie Sucriere would be reduced by the
arrangements referred to in para. 2.19.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:



- 29 -
(i)  the subsidiary agreement between Government and Compagnie
Sucriere defining the on-lending arrangements for the
IDA Credit is effective (para 4.04);
(ii)  loan agreements between Compagnie Sucriere and CCCE are
eff,:tive (para 4.04); and that
(iii)  the statutes of Compagnie Sucriere and of SOGESUCRE have
been revised in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para 3.15).
7.02      Agreements were obtained at Credit negotiations that:
(i)  Government would continue to inform the Association
on all aspects of the sugar sub-sector including invest-
ment proposals, and would give the Association the
opportunity to comment on these proposals (para 1.25);
(ii)  Prices of sugar sold in Zaire would be reviewed by
Government whenever required, and at least once a year
and after each significant change of the exchange rate
and changed when necessary (para 1.33);
(iii)  Government would take all necessary measures to enable
Compagnie Sucriere to recruit and retain an adequate
labor force (para 2.02);
(iv) Compagnie Sucriere would prepare annual work programs for
research, which would be submitted to the Association for
its review and approval before June 30 of each year
(para 3.10);
(v) Government would permit the internationally recruited
staff to remit an adequate portion of their salaries to
their respective home countries; their qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to the Association (para 3.11);
(vi) Compagnie Sucriere would submit to the Association, by
June 30, 1981, a detailed training program for its review
and approval (para 3.12);
(vii)  until December 31, 1990, no changes in Compagnie Sucriere-s
management structure and ownership would be made without
prior approval of the Association, and the position of
General Manager (Administrateur-Delegue) would continue to
be filled by a person with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.15);



- 30 -
(viii) Compagnie Sucriere would monitor the water quality of
the river Kwilu and, if necessary, take appropriate
actlons to ensure that lts activities do not materlally
affect the environment (para 3.18); Compagnie Sucriere
would submit to the Association for its revlew and
approval proposals for the monitoring and control of the
Project's effects on the environment, as descrlbed at
para 3.18; and
(Lx) Government, SOGESUCRE and Compagnie Sucrlere would observe
certain financlal covenants to maintain Compagnie Suerlere's
sound financial situation (paras 5.03 and 5.04).
7.03      A condition of disbursement on account of expendltures for the
installation of an improved data processing system and for pilot projects
would be the Association's agreement on detalled proposals (paras 3.13 and
3.14).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 20.2 million (US$26.4 million) to the
Government of Zaire on standard terms.



- 31-
TABLE I
ZAIRE
RWILU-NOONGO SUCAR PROJECT I PROJET SUCRIER DE EWILU-NGONGO
PROJECT COSTS SUMt4ARY I RESIM`E DES COUTS DU PROJET
l/
(By Project Component  I Par composantes du projet)
°1, Foreign
30%       50%         10%        107o                        Exchange/
1          2          3          4          5        Total % Devises
I.   FACTORY EOUIPMENT                                                                                                        I     _ EDUIPEMENT USINE
Cane Reception Ares                         510        845         332        -          -        1,687                       Dechargement
Rehabilitation 2,000 T/day Mill              275        460        185        -          -          920                       Remise en etat moulin 2.000 T/jour
New 3,000 T/day Mill                      1,960      3,270         650        658        -        6,538                       Nouveau moulin 3.000 T/jour
Seeam and Electrical Ceneration           1,810      3,020         600        615        -        6,045                       Chaufferie et production electrique
Sugar Processing Equipment                1,170      1,950         390        390        -        3,900                       Equipement fabrication sucre
Miscellaneous                             1,190      2,000         400        365        -        3,955                       Divers
Total Factory Equipment             6.915    121.54        2.557      2,028        -       23,045      97                     Tatal  equipenent usine
Il.  PLANTATION EQUIPMENT                                                                                                     II.  MATERIEL CULTURES
Infrastructure                              100        220        -           -          -          320                       Infrastructure
Land Preparation & Cultivation            1,930      2,250      2,255         -          -        6,435                       Preparation des sels et cultures
Irrigation                                1,000        -          -           -          -        1,000                       Irrigation
Cane Transport                            1,050      2,610         785        785        -        5,230                       Transport des cannes
Miscellaneous                               575         575        575        575        -        2,300                       Divers
Spare Parts                                 360        720        720         -          -        1,800                       Pietes de rechange
Total Plantation Equipment          5,015    6.375         4,33       1.360        -       17085       97                     Total materiel cultures
III. CIVIL WORRS                                                                                                              III. OENIE CIVIL
Industrial Buildings                        -        1,615      1,105         290        -        3,010                       Estiments industriels
Staff Houses                                -          520        620         200        -        1,340                       Maisons personnel
Workers' Houses                             -        1,125      1,125      2,250         -        4,500                       Maisons travailleurs
Social Services                             -          -          500         -          -          500                       Services sociaux
Total Civil Works                      -       3,260       3,350      2,740        -        9,350      30                     Total geais civil
IV.  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                 IV.  MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE
Plantation Extension (2,700 ha)           1,000      1,000         -          -          -        2,000      97               Extension plantation (2.700 ha)
Cane Replanting (2,000 ha/year)             -          800        800         800        800      3,200      97              Replantage des cannes
Total Agricultural Develapment   1,000         1,800         800        800        800      5.200      97                     Total mise en valeur agricole
V.   INCREMENTAL STAFF                                                                                                        V.   PERSONNEL SUPPLEMENTAIRE
Local Staff                                 105        815        990         990        990      3,890      -                Personnel local
Expatriera  Staff & Consultants             250        700        850        850         850      3,500      77              Personnel expatrie et consultants
Total Incremental Staff                355      1,515    1,840        1,840      1,84       7,390      36                     Total personnel supplamentaire
VI.  OTHER COSTS                                                                                                              VI'.  AUTRES COUTS
Training                                    -           50         100        150        200        500    100                Formation
Electronia Data Processing                  -          500        -          -           -          500    100                Informatique
Pilot Projects                              -          500        500         500        500      2,000      f0               Projets pilote
Sub-Total                             -          ,050        600        650        700      3,000      86                     Sous-Total
TOTAL BASE COST                    13,285    25,545    13_482         9,418      3,340    65,070       80                     COUT TOTAL DE BASE
Physical Contingenies                    1,065      2,045      1,080         755        -        4,945                       Imprevus p';ysiques
Price Centingencies                       1,100      3,360      2,500      1,865       1,530    10,355                        Provision pour augmentation des prix
TOTAL PROJECT CO3T                 15,450    30,950    17,062        12,038   t_80    80,370           80                     COUT TOTAL DU PROJET
1/   Base cost in mid-1980 constant prices.                                                                                   1/   Cour de base en prix constant de
Year 1 cerresponds ta calendar year 1981                                                                                      mi-1980.  Ltannee 1 correspond a
l'annee calendaire 1981.



- 32-
TABLE 2
ZAIRE
KSIDU-NGONGO SUGAR PPOJECT/PROJET SUCRIER DE KUILW-IGCOpGO
PROJECT COST AND PINANCING SUMNARY/RESUSE DES COUTS ET DU FINANCEhENT DU PROJET  1/
(BS Preorres,ent Cateuar-/Par cateasein d'achat)
(S$ '0OO  equivalent )
TOTAL COST/ %pereign  ch.    ----Financed by/Finance pa----
COeL TOTAL      7 Devises           IDA          CCCE  Ce. Sucriers
A.  INTERNATIONAL COKPETCTIVS BIDDING (ICB)
Crawler Tractor-Rippers 200 HP                     1,800
TracCors 2/                                        2,930
Agricultaral Sepleteents                             367
Irrigation Eqsipment                              1,000
Trailer Sets                                       1,020
Lessectire.                                          900
Wagosa                                             2,260
Railt-ack                                            500
Other 3/                                             875
Data Pracrsisg Eqaip-tes                             550
Spare Pares                                        5,00
PFeaDEt, Handling, Isurasce                        1,890
Physical Centinge-cies                             1,525
Prie Conting.ecias                                 I ,855
TOTAL ICB                                  i2aal7             97           18,543           _             574
B. DIER::T PROCUREKENT 4/
1. EQUIPIERT
Raad Mais tararre Rquipment                       320
Crawler Tracter 200 HP                            155
AgricuWural Isplemts                              308
Case LeaderS                                      55
Spara Parts                                       100
Freight, Randling, Inearaner                      410
Physical Centingenci-s                            285
Price Cotiegencies                               340
Sab-Tetaî                                   2,468             97            2.394          -7
2. OThER GOOS ARD SERVICES
Agricultural Development (Inpatu)               5,200            97             -              _            5,200
Staff and Techeicai Assietanco                 7,390             36            2,660          -            4,730
Training                                          500           100              500                         -
Price Centingencies                            2,900             62              700          -            2,200
Sb-Total                                  15.990             52            3.860          -           12. 130
TOTAL DIRECT PROCSSREMENT                  18.458             67           6,254             _         12.204
C. QThER PROCEDURES 5/
Cane Reception                                     1,687
h11l Rehabilîtation (2,000t)                         920
Nea  1ill (3.000t)                                 6,538
Stean and Electrical Geeratios                    6,045
SUgar Proeessing Equisuust                        3,900
Caseructior Equiprest                                274
Workskhp                                             978
Miiscellaeeou   (apare parts, ars..bly)            1,818
Cusseltuets - Ag. Rencards                            65
Pri-e and Physical Cestingescies                  5,155
SOb-Tctaî                                  27,380            100             -           27.380
Transport                                            820             -             -             -               820
TatAL                                      28.200             97             -           27.380           820
D. CIVIL WORKS (FPrce Arcouet
Bser Ceet                                          9,350
Physical Cantingescies                               935
Pne  Centin8entie_                                 ,310
TOTAL CIVIL WORRS                          12.595             30           _-                          12.595
E.  PILOS PROJECTS  6/                                    2.000             80            1.600          -              400
TOTAL                                      80.370             80           26.397        27.380        26.593
1/ Base cost ie nid-1980 c-nstant pres.  Yfeu  S cerresponds            1; Cent de base as prixs cnstante de m -1980
te caDendar year 1980. Cfets inelade fraight, handling                  L'anses I sarenapad a lannee calenduira
and insarasca ohe- appropriote.                                         198E.  Les sauts co=prennent le frac,
saueuratiss et assurasse s'il y en a lireu.
2/ TataS ef 52 ceactera ef varices typs.                                2/ Tetal de 52 tracteurs de divers types.
}/ Crases, trailers, crap-spraying airerait, mcbile uerkehcpe.          3/ Grues, remarques, arien puSelrieateer,
atelier mabila.
4/ Negotiatad contracet vith euppliers cf goods asd cervies,            4Cteera    e         s         Se  cfsi s    d
bi-n et de servises
5/ As reqeired by agecies financing these cmpenents.,                   5/ SuDrant Ie- pracedures requises par les
ageneas qui fientnerasi cas raxpesanters
6I Proerresent preredarssera vId drpsnd se the iScs financed            6/ Les precedures de pass.. ies des e-rche
undar thie cempacent.                                                  tent fonction de la satore des biers et
serviees finances dans le cadra de setta



- 33 -                              TABLE 3
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(uSt Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                      Quarterly      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                     Disbursements        at End of Quarter
1980/81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980
March 31, 1981                          0.7                     0.7
June 30, 1981                           2.0                     2.7
1981/82
September 30, 1981                      2.0                     4.7
December 31, 1981                       2.0                     6.7
March 31, 1982                          2.0                     8.7
June 30, 1982                           2.0                    10.7
1982/83
September 30, 1982                      2.3                    13.0
December 31, 1982                       3.0                    16.0
March 31, 1983                          3.0                    19.0
June 30, 1983                           3.0                    22.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983                      0.5                    22.5
December 31, 1983                       0.5                    23.0
March 30, 1984                          0.5                    23.5
June 30, 1984                           0.5                    24.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984                      0.5                    24.5
December 31, 1984                       0.5                    25.0
March 30, 1985                          0.5                    25.5
June 30, 1985                           0.5                    26.0
1985/86
September 30, 1985                      0.4                    26.4



ZAIRE
KWI LU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS / COMPTES D'EXPLOITATION PREVISIONNELS 1/
Compagnie Sucriere
(US$Million equivalent)
Withouc
Fiscal Years Ending December 31          Project 2/   1           2         3         4         5         6        10       Annees Financieres se Terminant la 31 Decembre
Sugar Sales (tons)                        38,000   38,000   45,000   45,000   55,000   65,000   65,000   65,000    Ventes de sucre (tonnes)
Sales Revenue                               33.3      38.9      47.4       54.0      65.8      70.7      72.2      68.8    Revenu
Production Costs                                                                                                           Couts de Production
Consumables                                  5.7        6.3       8.0       8.6      11.4      14.4      14.4      14.4    Matieres de consommation
Spare Parts                                  5.5       6.1       6.2        6.6       8.8      11.0      11.0      11.0    Pieces de rechange
Fertilizers and Chemicals                    1.0        1.1       1.3       1.4       1.9       2.4       2.4       2.4    Engrais et produits chimiques
Personnel                                   10.0       11.4      13.7      15.1      16.2      17.3      16.2      16.2    Personnel
Services and Utilities                       3.0       3.3       3.7       4.0        4.5       5.0       5.0       5.0    Services et prestations exterieurs
Agricultural Development                       -        1.1       2.1       1.0       1.1       1.2        -         -      Mise en valeur agricole
Training                                       -         -         -        0.1       0.3       0.3        -         -      Formation
Total Production Costs                  25.2      29.3      35.0      36.8      44.2       51.6     49.0       49.0         Total des Couts de Production
Financial Expenses                                                                                                          Frais Financiers
Short-term Interest                          0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1    Interet a court terme
Interest on Long-Term Debt:                                                                                                 Interets sur dettes . 1Gog tcrm_z
Subsidiary IDA Loan                       -        0.5       1.7       2.9       3.6       3.9       4.0        2.4         Pret subsidiaire IDA                                                   .
CCCE                                      -        0.5       1.8       2.8       3.1        3.3       3.0       1.7         CCCE
Total Financial Expenses                 0.1       1.1       3.6       5.8       6.8        7.3       7.1       4.2         Total des Frais Financiers
Depreciation                                                                                                                Amortissements
Existing Buildings and Equipment             2.0        2.0        -         -         -         -         -         -      Immobilisations existantes
Project Investments:                                                                                                        Investissement Projet:
Civil works and Buildings                 -         -         -        0.2       0.3        0.5       0.5       0.5         Genie Civil
Plantation Equipment                      -         -        0.8       1.6       2.4       2,5       2.5        2.5         Equipement cultures
Factory Equipment                         -         -         -        0.5       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0         Equipement usine
Miscellaneous                             -         -        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1         Divers
Total Depreciation                       2.0       2.0       0.9       2.4       3.8       4.1       4.1        4.1         Total Amortissements
INCOME 6EFORE TAXES                          5.6       6.5       7.9        9.0      11.0      11.8      12.0      11.5    REVENUE AVANT IMPOTS
Taxes                                        2.8        3.2       3.9       4.5       5.5       5.9       6.0       5.8    Impots
INCOME AFTER TAXES                           2.8       3.3       4.0       4.5        5.5       5.9       6.0       5.7    REVENU APRES IMPOTS
Agricultural Recovery Fund               1.5       1.5       1.8        1.8       2.2       2.6       2.6       2.6    Fonds de Relance Agricole
1/  In current terms for years 1-5, in constant terms thereafter.                                          1/  En prix courants pour les annees 1-5, en prix constants
General price increases assumed as follows: Year 1 (1981), 97%;                                            par la suite.  Augmentation generale des prix:
Year 2, 8%/; Years 3-5, 7/ p.a.                                                                            annee 1 (1981), W9; annee 2, 87O; annee 3-5, 7r  p.a.
2/  In 1980 prices.                                                                                        2/  En prix de 1980.



t`   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
PROJECTED CASH FLOW / FLUX FINANCIERS PREVISIONNELS
Compagnie Sucriere
(US$ Million equivalent)
Fiscal Years Ending  December 31           1      2       3      4      5       6     10          Annees fiscales se terminant le 31 decembre
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                  SOURCES DES FONDS
Net Income                                3.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.9    6.0    5.7           Resultat net
Depreciation                              2.0    0.9    2.4    3.8    4.1    4.1    4.1           Amortissements
Funds from Operations                  5.3    4.9    6.9    9.3   10.0   10.1    9.8              Sous-Total
IDA Credit                                6.7    9.3    7.0    2.0    1.4       -      -          Credit IDA
CCCE Loan (Equipment)                     8.2   13.7    3.0    2.5       -      -      -          Pret CCCE (equipement)
TOTAL SOURCES                            20.2   27.9   16.9   13.8   11.4   10.1    9.8           TOTAL DES SOURCES
APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                                                              UTILISATION DES FONDS
Project investments  1/                  13.9   26.3   13.1    8.1    0.2       -      -          Investissements projet  1/
Pilot Projects                             _     0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5       -      -          Projets pilotes
Debt Repayment                                                                                    Repayment des Prets
Subsidiary IDA loan                     -      -       -      -      -      2.6    2.6            Pret subsidiaire IDA
CCCE                                   -       -       -      -      -      2.7    2.7            CCCE
Sub-Total                               -      -       -      -      -      5.3    5.3            Sous-Total
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       13.9   26.8   13.6    8.6    0.7    5.3    5.3           TOTAL DES UTILISATIONS
Net Cash Flow                             6.3    1.1    3.3    5.2   10.7    4.8    4.5           Marge nette
1/  Excluding agricultural development and                                                    1/  Excluant mise en valeur agricole et personnel
staff accounted for in the income                                                             pris en compte dans le compte d'exploitation,
statement, and pilot projects.                                                                et les projets pilote.



ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS / BILANS PREVISIONNELS
Compagnie Sucriere
(US$Million equivalent)
Fiscal Years Ending December 31           1       2        3       4       5        6      10           Annees financieres se terminant le 31 decembre
ASSETS                                                                                                  ACTIF
Current Assets                      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    18.0    18.0                Valeurs a court-terme
Fixed Assets                                                                                            Valeurs immobilisees
Land                                 0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1              Terrains
Buildings, Machinery, Equipment    30.1    56.9    70.5    79.1    79.8    79.8    79.8                 Autres immobilisations corporelles
Less: Accumulated Depreciation    (15.1)  (16.0)  (18.4)  (22.2)  (26.3)  (30.4)  (46.8)                Moins: amort;ssements
Net Fixed Assets                    15.1    41.0    52.2    57.0    53.6    49.5    33.1                Total Valeurs immobilisees
Surplus Cash                        14.8    15.9    19.2    24.4    35.1    39.9    57.9                Surplus
TOTAL ASSETS                        39.9    66.9    81.4    91.4    98.7   107.4   109.0                TOTAL ACTIF
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                                                                                 PASSIF ET CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                                                                                     Dettes a court-terme
Accounts Payable                     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0               Fournisseurs
Current Portion Long-Term Debt        -       -        -       -       -      5.3      5.3              Echeances dette a long-terme
Total Current Liabilities            6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0    11.3    11.3               Total dettes a court-terme
Long-Term Debt                                                                                         Dettes a long-terme
Long term debt                      14.9    37.9    47.9    52.4    53.8    53.8    32.6                Dettes a long-terme
Less: Current Maturities              -       -                -       -       5.3     5.3              Moins: echeances
Net Long-Term Debt                  14,9       .9    47.9    52.4    53.8    48.5    27.3               Dette a long-terme nette
Capital                                                                                                Capital
Share Capital                        0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8              Capital social
Retained Earnings                   18.2    22.2    26.7    32.2    38.1    46.8    69.6                Reserve speciale
Total Capital                       19.0    23.0    27.5   33.0    38.9   47.6    70.4                  Total Capital
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL           39.9    66.9    81.4    91.4    98.7   107.4   109.0            TOTAL PASSIF ET CAPITAL
Current Ratio                            1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6          Valeurs court-terme/Dettes court-terme
Debt/Equity Ratio                       44:56   62:38   63:37   61:39   58:42   50:50   28:72           Ratio Dette a long terme/Capital
5s        1,



- 37 -
TABLE 7
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT I PROJET SUCRIER DE ICWILU-NGONGO
FINANCIAL RETURN CALCULATIONS  I CALCULS DE RENTABILITE FINANCIERE  I/
Compagnie Sucriere
(US$ Million equivalent)
1       2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10    11-19      20
4      Incremental Revenues           2.1      6.5      8.9    14.7    14.8    15.8    15.2    14.7    14.1    13.5    13.3    13.0
Incremental Costs
Capital Costs                 12.8    22.8      9.4      4.1       -       -        -                 -       -        -    (16.4)
operating Costs                1.4     4.2      3.6      6.2      9.1     8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1
Taoes on Income                0.1      0.5     0.7      1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2      1.2     1.1      1.1      1.1      1.0
Net Benefits                 (12.2)  (21.0)   (4.8)    3.2        4.5     6.5      5.9      5.4     4.9      4.3      4.1    20.3
Financial Rate of Return after taxes /9i5%
Taux de rentabilite financiere apres impots '
Financial Rate of Return before taxes /             12.5%
Taux de rentabilite financiere avant impots
1/  In constant prices                                                                                      1/  En prix constants



ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW / FLUX FINANCIERS DU GOUV NEMENT
(US$ Million equivalent) 1/
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9    10       11 - 14      15 - 20
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                 Sources des fonds
Income Taxes (incremental)       0.4   1.1   1.7   2.7   3.1   3.2   3.2   3.1   3.0   2.9           2.9          2.8            Impots sur le revenu (additionels)
Debt Repayments:                                                                                                                 Repayment Prets:
Principal                      -     -      -     -     -    2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6         2.6        2.6 - 0.0            Principal
Interest                      0.5   1.7   2.9   3.6   3.9   4.0   3.6   3.2   2.8   2.4    2.0 - 0.4         -     -             Interet
IDA Credit                       6.7   9.3   7.0   2.0   1.4    -       -     -      -     -       -     -      -     -          Credit InA
oa
Total Sources of Funds        7.6  12.1  11.6   8.3   8.4   9.8   9.4   8.9   8.4   7.9    7.5 - 5.9    5.4 - 2.8                Total des sources
Application of Funds                                                                                                             Utilisation des Fonds
Subsidiary IDA Loan              6.7   9.3   7.0   2.0   1.4    -       -     -      -     -       -     -      -     -          Prets subsidiare IDA
Debt Service:                                                                                                                    Dette:
IDA - Printipal                -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     0.2 - 0.7    0.7 - 0.7             IDA - Principal
IDA - Service charge           -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2 - 0.2    0.2 - 0.1                InA - Frais financiers
Total Application of Funds   6.7   9.4   7.1   2.1   1.6   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.4 - 0.9    0.9 - 0.8                 Total utilisation des fonds
Net Cash Flow                 0.9   2.7   4.5   6.2   6.8   9.6   9.2   8.7   8.2   7.7    7.1 - 5.0    4.5 - 2.0                Cash  flow net
1/ In current terms for years 1-5                                                                                     l/ En termes courants pour les annees 1 a 5



ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
ECOINOMIC RATE OF RETURN / TAUX DE RENTABILITE ECONOMIQUE
(US$Million equivalent)
Foreign Exch. %
1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9    10-19      20   Devises7%
Incremental Sugar Production                                                                                                                               Production de sucre supplementaire
Quantity (ton'000)                          -       7        7       17       21       27       27       27      27       27        27                     Quantite (tonnes '000)
Factory Import Price (US$/ton)              -    800       731      615      604      604      604      604     604      604      604                      Prix d'importation rendu usine
(US$ /tonne)
Ex-Factory Import Value                 -       5.6      5.1    10.5    16.3    16.3    16.3    16.3    16.3    16.3    16.3             95                Valeur d'importation rendue usine
w
Incremental Costs                                                                                                                                          Couts sueplementaires
Capital Costs                             12.8    22.8       9.4      4.1       -        -        -        -        -        -    (16.4)    83             Couts d'investissement
Operating Costs                            1.4      4.2      3.6      6.2      9.1      8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1       50           Couts de fonctionnement
Repatriated dividends                       -        -        -        -        -       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      100           Dividendes rapatries  2/
Net Benefits                             (14.2)  (21.4)   (7.0)    0.2         7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2   23.6                     Marge Nette
Economic Rate of Return/                1757
Taux de rentabilite economique  '        7* °
1/  Using a shadow exchange rate of US$1.0 - Z 3.0 instead of the                                                                      1/  En utilisant un taux de change virtuel de
rate of US$1.0 = Z 1.5 on which the financial calculations are                                                                         US$1.0 = Z 3.0 au lieu du taux de US$1.0 = Z 1.5
based.                                                                                                                                 qui a ete utilise pour les calcula financiers.
2/ Level of dividends shown is for projection purposes only and                                                                        2/ Le niveau des dividendes ci-dessues uniquement
does not prejudge the level of dividends which would actually                                                                          pour previsions, et ne presume pas du niveau des
be distributed.                                                                                                                        dividendes qui seraient en fait distribues.



!  40
TABLE 10
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT / PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
Economic Sensitivity Analysis I Analyse de sensibilité économique
ERR(%)
Base Economic Rate of Return         17.5     Taux de rentabilité économique de base
10% increase in capital costs        16.0     10% d'augmentation des coûts d'investissement
10% decrease in capital costs        19.5     10% de diminution des coûts d'investissement
10% increase in operating costs    16.0       10% d'augmentation des coûts de fonctionnement
20% decrease in operating cost       19.0     20% de diminution des coûts de fonctionnement
10% increase in sugar price          20.5     10% d'augmentation du prix du sucre
10% decrease in sugar price          14.5     10% de diminution du prix du sucre



- 41 -
ANNE:X
ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-Sector
Ai. Draft Report of the ZAIRE - SUGAR INDUSTRY REVIEW AND POSSIBLE
DEVELOPMENT PROGRU±\ME, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme,
Report No. 44/77 - ZAI.14, 15 November 1977.
B. Selected Renorts and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Description du projet d'investissement sucrier, Compagnie Sucriere.
B2. Description du projet de développement de la production de Sucre à
Kwilu-Ngongo, Compagnie Sucrière.
B3. Demande d'augmentation du prix de vente - sucre, alcool, C02 -
Compagnie Sucrière, Février 1979.
B4.  Complément d'information au dossier soumis à la Banque Mondiale
suite à la visite du 02.05.1979, Compagnie Sucrière, juillet 1979.
B,.  Complément d'information au dossier soumis à la Banque Mondiale
suite à la visite du 16 juillet 1979, Compagnie Sucrière, juillet 1979.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Working papers (one volume) including supporting cost tables, and
description of (i) the Project area, (ii) the factory, (iii) cane
production and (iv) cane harvesting and transport.



ZAIRE
PROJET SUCRIER DE KWILU-NGONGO
Organisation de la Compagnie Sucrière
Conseil d'administration
Administrateur-Déligué
SUCRERIE         l                        l           PROJETS                          SERVICES                        BUREAU
| Directeur administratif  || Directeur techni 7e 1
SECTIONS
COMPTABILITE-            DISPATCHING               ENT. MECANIQUE             Pr. VIVRIERS                ECOLES
COMMERCIAL
l              1    g   ~~~~~~ENT. ELECTRIQUE  l_
GESTION ET CONTROLE            USINE                                              ETUDES AGR.                HOPITAL
_  FABRICATION.I
APPROVISIONNEMENTS                                     IND. CONNEXES             PROJET SUCRE              DISPENSAIRES
INFORMATIQUE                                          GARAGE                   GENIE CIVIL
SERV. GENERAUX                ATELIERS                 QMECANIUE
_|    CONSTRUCTION    l    q    ELECTRICITE
MONTAGE
BLOC I
CULTURES
BLOC Il
Banque Mondiale  21339
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



ZAI RE
KWI LU- NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT/ PROJET SUCRIER DE KWI LU-NGONGO
Implementation Schedule/ Calendrier d' exécution
1980               1981               1982               1983               1984                1985
Activities                                                                                                                                          Activites
A ct iv it ie s1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   _    2   3   4    1   2    3   4Activités
FACTORY                                                                                                                                              USINE
Design and Procuremerit                  _                                                                                                           Conception et marchés
Manufacturing and Delivery                                                                                                                            Fabrication et livraison
Construction and Assembly                                                       _                                                                    Construction et montage
Commissioning                                                                                                                                        Mise en service
PLANTATION                                                                                                                                           PLANTATION
Procurement of Equipment                                                                                                                             Marchés équipment
Cahe Replanting and Extension                                                                                                                         Replantation et extension
World Bank - 22203



IBRD 14628
I         \   'v'I                                                                                                 V\i - A~ v
_BOK,BLOCK T 
f      i     tO-H|B I                                   ---  `&t'.'.'.n`
-    f          f I                 'ù'                             yREPUBLIC  OF ZAIRE'-
\./ N PUB9/1UF DU Z&E'
I                                                 ~~~~~~~KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT                                                          $,                        4--vt'w
-t  I..y    ~        .       .                        i
I ~   ~           ~          ~         ~          LC  I                                                                  "'N'``9                        
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ : /,i  ,17                 1  `1-t'by
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
rF REPUBLIC                                                                  F   I RE i
À                                                    PE~~~~~~~~~FLIB /plQU   Dute lA/'5rF tst 
K~~~~~~~ KWILU-NGONGO                                                       cd SUGARlluc PROJEC
PROJET_SUCRIER              rE KW  LU  A                                                                                          2GNGQ
_   c) 1F, | ,,   .   -;>dt                                  Ato ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PnTeztrtn [n. rutru'
AJ   i  X   Z A l R E t  XerénL                             4 4 s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it Co ,. e>r,r.ttt
"-k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ern  mAin T)S-'                                '.t+ HApu
d&% tpdCreu[éFlt eU   «  [ÀN»NLA                       \, E   t/opztal                                                                     rl. iMFTEFÉ °      !         t         3         d         5n-tVc
~~~~-Zs Losf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr,^nr;-Ata ce  t  ME   rase,-   esrltletrt    Ksut au  d/se-M tes'
_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sir  îturrutrt ruituuy24) E:4SoL



CUUPEPUN N              N                .N -.             hUN,                                                                                                                                                                                      t                                                ____                          LBRD  14629
y        t\Pppi          0F                                                                                                                             :                 /                                                    e B
UjU/P  N                         4       X        m-          (.FRUBL/OF                                                                                                    ZAIRE
"".~NUNN ~N    UN            ,,tP  tx j        ?   N          t                                                      N),,                                                                             oW ILU-  NGONGO                           SUGAR              PROJECT
BLOCK I
-I-d/G/I      y t-Ko k ,
;    :'â    tEDSj, e .t.        _ï/e
NU /J i («     \nPoh-i;evesyi6esV-    f-re
(Nf  ,    \     S                  /g          /   X         j  >              ;                       \                                                                                                       Exist ng sec ndury traCks
R-U-    F _AIrE
ProjectN hridge
,;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                               Exiting  p lU ht Ut   o U UI
Q )~t ,S                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PN/Jpt,
S . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PFU/U,. UNUUU _U-U



