Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2925-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
December 4, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
Currency Unit                  -  Zaire (9) - 100 Makuta (K)
9 1.00                         -  SDR 0.2625
US$1.00                        -  3 2.9
a 1.00                         -  US$0.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARP           -  Agricultural Recovery Program
CCCE          -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
DOA           - Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
INERA         -  National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies
OqNDS         -  National Sugar Office
SOFIDE        -  Societe Financiere pour le Developpement Economique
SOGESUCRE     -  Societe de Gestion et de Financement des Industries du Sucre
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
Compagnie Sucriere: January 1 to December 31
/1   Since February 22, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAI USE ONLY
ZAIRE
KWILU NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:           Compagnie Sucriere
Amount:                SDR 20.2 million (US$26.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Co-lenders:            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
Relending Terms:       All the proceeds of the Credit would be on-lent to
Compagnie Sucriere at an interest rate of 15 percent
per annum. Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The maturity of the sugar plantation
and factory loan would be 15 years including five
years of grace. The maturity of the loans for the pilot
projects would be determined on a case by case basis.
Project Description:  The proposed Project would include: (i) rehabilitation
and extension of an existing sugar plantation, including
provision of equipment for land preparation, cultiva-
tion and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport
infrastructure, and provision of equipment for sugar
cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing
facilities and construction of offices and staff
housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and install-
ation of a data processing and management information
system; (vi) staff training; and (vii) pilot projects
to promote foodcrop production.
The Project faces few technical, commercial or man-
agerial risks. There are some risks of delays in
Project implementation due to the general economic
conditions in Zaire. The main risks would be a
deterioration of the Company's financial situation if
the government failed to increase sugar prices to
reflect production costs, or to provide foreign exchange
to purchase agricultural inputs, spare parts and sup-
plies. To reduce these risks, the Government has agreed
that sugar prices would be reviewed whenever required
and has established a mechanism to allocate foreign
exchange to Compagnie Sucriere.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                     Local     Foreign   Total
(net of import taxes and duties)   -----(US$ Million)-------
Equipment                            1.4       39.3      40.7
Civil Works                          6.5        2.8       9.3
Agricultural Inputs                  0.2        5.0       5.2
Staff and Professional Services      4.7        2.7       7.4
Training                                        0.5       0.5
Pilot Projects                       0.4        1.6       2.0
TOTAL BASE COST                     13.2       51.9      65.1
Physical Contingencies               1.2        4.1       5.3
Price Contingencies                  2.2        7.8      10.0
TOTAL COST                          16.6       63.8      80.4
% of
Financing Plan:                     Local     Foreign   Total    Total
-----(US$million equivalent)---
IDA                                   -        26.4      26.4       33
CCCE                                  -        27.4      27.4       34
Compagnie Sucriere                  16.6       10.0      26.6       33
Total                          16.6       63.8      80.4     100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 1981   1982     1983     1984      1985     1986
----------(US$ million equivalent)-------------
Annual Disbursements            2.7     8.0     11.3       2.0      2.0      0.4
Cumulative Disbursements        2.7    10.7     22.0     24.0      26.0     26.4
Rate of Return:        About 17.5 percent (over 85 percent of total cost)
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 2897-ZR dated November 25, 1980
Maps:                  IBRD 14628 and 14629.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 20.2
million (US$26.4 million) on standard IDA terms to finance a Sugar Project
in the region of Bas-Zaire. The Project would be co-financed, on a parallel
basis, by a loan of US$27.4 million equivalent (FF 115 million) from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The proceeds of the IDA Credit
would be transferred by the Government to the implementing agency, the Kwilu
Ngongo Sugar Company (Compagnie Sucriere), at an interest rate of 15 percent
per annum. Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
maturity of the sugar plantation and factory loan would be 15 years including
five years of grace. The maturity of the loans for the pilot projects would
be determined on a case by case basis. The CCCE loan would be made directly
to Compagnie Sucriere. It would bear a 12 percent interest rate with a term
of 15 years, including a five year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum (Report No. 2158-ZR) was distributed
on October 19, 1979. An economic mission visited Zaire in October 1980;
its report will be issued in April 1981. The period since the preparation
of the last report has witnessed a number of important international actions
on Zaire such as the approval by the IMF of a Stand-by Arrangement in support
of an 18-month stabilization program, an ad hoc conference of donors on
Zaire's short-term assistance needs, a meeting of the Paris Club on external.
debt rescheduling and a Consultative Group Meeting in May 1980. The prelimi-
nary findings of the October economic mission as well as the results of the
above actions are reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$210 in 1978, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-fourth of its population of about 26 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than twice as fast as
the growth of population. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 18 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral processing
industry normally accounts for about 20 percent of GDP; it has been tradition-
ally the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country s export earnings.



- 2 -
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years were
marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the economy;
but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967, the gross
domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974.
Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties,
which have brought about a continuous decline in aggregate output.
5.        Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive accen-
tuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by the
relative neglect of agricultural production; the failure to follow an anti-
cyclical reserve policy from the beginning of the last copper cycle or at
least to invest the windfall earnings properly; heavy external borrowing
during 1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with
Zaire's level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and
uncertain economic benefits; and the attempt to drastically change the owner-
ship structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the zairiani-
zation and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links
between urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect--and in
some cases destruction--of the countrys productive capacity and infrastruc-
ture. In view of the appearance of these trends before 1975, it is difficult
to attribute the current economic crisis of Zaire to a single factor, either
external or internal. Yet one event stands out as a major contributor to both
the severity and the duration of the crisis: the deterioration of Zaire's
terms of trade in 1975, which was brought about principally by the fall in
the international price of copper.
6.        During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's com-
mercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms; Government ran
large budgetary deficits; domestic prices quadrupled; the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year; and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but
these could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.        In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances persisted and
economic activity continued to decline. GDP in real terms contracted by
6.8 percent due to adverse weather conditions, the acute shortage of inputs
in the agriculture, industry and transportation sectors, and the fall in
Gecamines' output resulting partly from the events which took place in the
Shaba province in May and partly from the unattended rehabilitation needs of
the company. Owing to a 40 percent increase in current expenditures, the
overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about H 570 million,
equivalent to 13 percent of commercialized GDP. Deficit financing, together



- 3 -
with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and intermediate
products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 90 percent. Between
November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued the zaire in
four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from 9 1.0 = SDR 1.0
to X 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Thanks to a 31 percent increase in exports and an
11 percent decrease in imports (both in nominal terms), the overall balance
of payments deficit was reduced to about $340 million. The deficit was
financed primarily by a further accumulation of arrears. Total arrears
increased from about US$800 million at the end of 1977 to more than US$1.0
billion at the end of 1978.
8.        The economic and financia'l situation of Zaire remained difficult
in 1979, although the deterioration decelerated in several respects. Com-
mercialized GDP declined by only one percent (compared to nearly 7 percent
in 1978) and the budgetary deficit was smaller in nominal terms and as a
proportion of GDP (7 percent), than the year before (13 percent). However,
the budgetary deficit was financed entirely by recourse to the banking
system. This plus the acceleration of credit to the rest of the economy
continued to exert pressure on prices, which rose by about 100 percent
in the capital city during the year. The balance of payments also remained
under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further accumulation of external
payment arrears. On June 30, 1979, arrears (including those on short-term
commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about US$1.5 billion. (On that
date, Zaire had an additional US$200 million of arrears on private debt,
i.e., debt by a private entity carrying a guarantee of foreign exchange
availability by the Central Bank.) The zaire was devalued by another 25
percent against the SDR, on August 24, 1979, and by another 30 percent on
February 22, 1980 modifying the rate to 9 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and
bringing the cumulative devaluation since November 1, 1978 to 74.75 percent.
9.        The year 1979 saw four concrete attempts to arrest the above trends
and to prepare the conditions for a resumption of economic growth: (a) the
adoption of a new stabilization program, supported by a Stand-by Arrangement
with the IMF; (2) an attempt to mobilize the short-term external assistance
needed for the successful implementation of the stabilization program; (3)
renegotiation of external debt, both with the private banks and with the Paris
Club; and (4) completion of a three-year public investment program.
10.       The new stabilization program covers the 18-month period from July 1,
1979 to December 31, 1980 and has been designed essentially to contain the
overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and reactivate
the economy. To these ends, the program calls for: (1) a marked reduction
in the budgetary deficit; (2) a substantial deceleration of domestic credit
expansion ; (3) the implementation of prudent incomes policies; (4) the
continuation of a flexible exchange rate policy; (5) the improvement of
foreign exchange management; (6) the commencement of an orderly process of
reducing outstanding external payments arrears; and (7) the limitation of new
external borrowing by the Government or against government guarantee with
maturities of 1-12 years. In support of this program, on August 27, 1979 the



- 4 -
IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR 118
million for a period of 18 months. The IMF also approved a Trust Fund loan
estimated at SDR 50 million. The implementation of this stabilization program
encountered some difficulties in 1979. However Zaire met all the performance
criteria fqr both March 31 and June 30, 1980. As of September 30, Zaire pur-
chased SDR 98.4 million under this standby arrangement. An IMF review mission
visited Zaire in November 1980.
11.       The short-term needs of the Zairian economy, comprising both ins-
titutional/policy measures by Zaire and external assistance, have been the
focus of three ad hoc conferences of donors organized by Belgium, with the
support and participation of Zaire, since 1978. At the first one, in June
1978, the major donors announced some emergency commodity assistance to
alleviate the impact of the Shaba invasion of May of that year. The second
conference, which took place in November 1978, underscored the indispensability
of substantial external assistance (additional to that already in the pipe-
line) to the success of a stabilization program and resulted in promises from
donors of about US$225 million in such assistance, of which (according to
donors) USS155 million were disbursed in 1979. The third conference was
announced shortly after the adoption of the new stabilization program and
convened on November 28-29, 1979. At that conference, Zaire requested US$300
million of commodity assistance for 1980. The donors indicated their inten-
tion to provide US$180-200 million in such assistance during the year.
12.       To alleviate the growing debt repayment difficulties, Zaire began
debt rescheduling negotiations in late 1975. Although a Memorandum of Under-
standing was signed in November 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks,
the understanding could not be fully implemented due to the failure of a US$250
million loan from the private banks--which formed part of the understanding--to
materialize. Furthermore, the rescheduling agreements reached with the Paris
Club on three separate occasions (June 1976, July 1977 and November 1977) were
not accompanied by an improvement in the economic situation and, therefore,
by mid-1979, Zaire accumulated arrears of approximately US$60 million on the
rescheduled debt. On June 30, 1979, Zaire's external public debt (disbursed
and outstanding), including arrears, amounted to about US$3.9 billion. On
that date Zaire owed, in addition, US$300 million in private debt and US$700
million in short-term (under one year) commercial debt, either public or
private, and invisibles. (Undisbursed commitments amounted to US$680 million).
Roughly one-tenth of the public debt was owed to private banks and nearly two-
thirds to members of the Paris Club. About one-half of the debt was contracted
between 1973-1975, much of it from private source and with relatively short
grace periods. Consequently, as of June 30, 1979, the average contractual
debt service payments due (assuming no rescheduling and excluding arrears)
during 1979-81 were projected at 26 percent of exports.
13.       Rescheduling negotiations were reactivated during the second half of
1979 with considerable success. On November 8, 1979, Zaire reached a tentative
agreement with the agent banks of syndicated credits orn the rescheduling of
the entire uninsured debt (including principal and interest in arrears) owed



- 5 -
to the private banks. The tentative agreement called for a substantial down-
payment in 1980, small annual payments during 1981-84, and liquidation of the
rest during 1985-90. The agreement has now been finalized. On December 11,
1979, the Paris Club provided for the rescheduling of US$1.3 billion of
Zaire's debt, comprising arrears (including those on already rescheduled debt
and insured short-term commercial credits) and maturities coming due during
the period July 1, 1979-December 31, 1980. The downpayment varies between
10 and 30 percent, depending on the category of the debt, and most of the
remainder is to be repaid in 10 years, with a grace period of 4 years. (The
terms for the repayment of arrears on previously rescheduled maturities are
harder than those for new maturities.) Zaire has satisfactorily begun
implementing the agreements with both the private banks and the Paris Club.
14.       During the last two years, Zaire has taken a number of important
steps under the Mobutu Plan, which the government views as a broad-based and
multipronged effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with the parti-
cipation of major donors. These include the installation of an expatriate
deputy governor as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF,
at the Bank of Zaire. This has been accompanied by some concrete measures to
halt the privileges enjoyed by certain firms with respect to access to foreign
exchange and credit. Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general,
proposed by the UNDP, to the Ministry of Finance. The controller general will
be assisted by a team of technical experts. In addition, as part of an effort
to reform its customs operations, Zaire has passed a law transforming the
Customs Division of the Ministry of Finance into a public organization known
as the Office of Customs and Duties (OFIDA). This new undertaking has received
substantial technical and administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy
is the creation of a Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the
assistance of French experts. Moreover, the Government.has reaffirmed
through various actions its commitment to expand the role of and reliance on
the private sector. Seven inefficient "commodity offices" have been dis-
solved; some agricultural producer prices have been raised; under a scheme of
"development agreements", an effort is under way to involve private industry
in the rehabilitation of agriculture and related infrastructure; a new
investment code has been promulgated; and a number of reforms have been
initiated in the management of state enterprises. At the end of 1979 the
Government decided to exchange i 5 and 10 notes for new bank notes. This
measure was taken as a reaction to the tendency to hoard notes which developed
during the year. It aimed at reducing liquidity while inducing the return of
bank notes to the banking system. The measure which initially encountered
some problems of implementation brought about some relief of inflationary
pressures during the first half of 1980.
15.       During 1978-79, international and domestic attention to the problem
of economic recovery was directed to the preparation of a three year public
investment program. The need was underlined at the first Brussels Conference
in June 1978, where the Bank was asked to assist Zaire in this endeavor. In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program, focusing largely on
rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as transportation and agricul-
ture. The completion of this work and the approval of a Standby Arrangement



- 6 -
by the 1MF in support of a Stabilizationi program led to the convening of the
ConsultatixTe Group, which took place in Paris on May 28 and 29, 1980. The
Consultative Group reviewed the institutional and policy changes made or under
preparation. The donors encouraged the Zairian authorities to intensify the
institutional and economic reforms underway.
16.       The actions outlined in paragraphs 10-15 have begun to show some
encouraging results.  First, thanks to continued efforts toward financial
discipline, the budgetary deficit was only Z 100 million on June 30, 1980 --
less than one-fifth of the end-1979 level. While the deficit has increased
in the last few months, it is expected to remain lower (in real terms) than
in 1979. Second, the inflation rate for 1980 is expected to average 40-50
percent, or approximately half the rate of last year. Third, the decline in
GDP is expected to be arrested in 1980. Two major factors have slowed down
the reversal of the economy in 1980: (i) heavy external debt payments,
and (ii) the slow disbursement of commodity aid. External debt payments
are estimated to total US$420 million in 1980, compared to US$167 million
in 1979. Disbursements of the commodity aid promised at the Third Brussels
Conference have been running at less than half the rate anticipated and may
total US$70-80 million.
17.       The resource constraints of Zaire remain severe, despite the
improvement in copper and particularly cobalt prices experienced between 1979
and mid-1980 because of (i) the cumulative effect of insufficient rehabilita-
tion and maintenance on productive capacity and infrastructure since the
beginning of the crisis; and (ii) heavy external debt obligations. Without
further rescheduling, Zaire-s external debt service due in the next three
years will average more than US$650 million, or approximately 27 percent of
projected export earnings. Without additional aid, the financial hardships
will be all the more greater because the project pipeline has been reduced
significantly (to US$600 million) in the last few years (cumulative disburse-
ments over the last four years have exceeded cumulative commitments by about
US$400 million).
18.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices. Economic developments in Zaire will continue to depend on the vagaries
of world commodity prices. For the next two to three years, however, under
the best circumstances, Zaire cannot hope to achieve an import level much
higher than 60 percent of that of 1974. Moreover, important domestic problems
remain. Adjusting to the resource constraints and other difficulties brought
on by the crisis has been seriously hampered by the overall weakness of
institutions, the inadequacy of administrative controls, especially with
regard to the repatriation and allocation of foreign exchange earnings and
the monitoring of budgetary expenditures, and the deficiencies of economic
decision-making.  The authorities are aware of these shortcomings and the
need to correct them. They recognize, in particular, the importance of
continuously strengthening the ongoing institutional reforms in order to both



- 7 -
improve the management of the economy and encourage the flow -- as well as
facilitate the absorption -- of the substantial external assistance, financial
and technical, needed to fulfill the country s potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 20 IDA credits totaling
US$277 million for transport, agriculture, development finance company
operations, water supply and education projects. The Bank has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million
for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which
provided for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export
earnings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in SOFIDE,
approved a US$4.1 million loan for an offshore oil production project in
September 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of October 31, 1980 and notes on the status of
ongoing projects.
20.       As of June 30, 1979 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
public debt outstanding was about 5.2 percent and its present share of public
debt service is estimated at 3.7 percent during 1980.
21.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (OR), received technical and financial
assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority. In the case of GECAMINES, the Bank loan
originated a fruitful dialogue which led to the strengthening of management
and planning of the Company.
22.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been difficult due to the country's inadequate manpower and management
capacity and, in recent years, because of the economic crisis. The first
Education Project (1972) was delayed because of the management weakness of
the Project Unit. While there has been a marked improvement in the manage-
ment of OR and ONATRA, the financial management of RVF and RVM remains
unsatisfactory. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been difficult. Lack of foreign exchange to finance
spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the transport network and marketing
system have resulted in supply problems for most *rojects. Recruiting and
retaining adeq,iate staff has become increasingly difficult. These
constraints have had a severe impact on ongoing agricultural projects which
have also suffered from inadequate pricing policies and financial controls as



- 8 -
well as insufficiently structured institutions. The present weakness of the
construction sector in Zaire has also been a major factor contributing to
both delays and cost overruns in projects such as water supply and education
which include large civil works components. Finally, inflation has compounded
the above problems. Several projects had to be revised to reduce their scope.
An amendment agreement on the GECAMINES project which allows completion of
essential rehabilitation works while postponing some of the expansion invest-
ments was signed in November 1979. In January 1980, the Bank undertook with
the Zairian authorities an overall review of ongoing Bank projects which for
the first time provided an integrated view of implementation problems and
should result in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank's
assistance. Five Credits have been totally disbursed: Credits 152 and 292-ZR
(First and Second Highway Projects) and Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First,
Second and Third SOFIDE Projects). Completion reports have been issued for
all these projects and performance audit reports have been issued for the
First SOFIDE and the First Highway Projects.
23.       In the past three years the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the agri-
culture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry are also included in our
program through assistance to SOFIDE. Support of the transport sector, and in
particular of the Voie Nationale, will continue to be a top priority area for
IDA investments. Another major thrust of future assistance is expected to be
on agriculture to reverse the declining trend of agricultural output, decrease
reliance on agricultural imports and promote the export of selected agricul-
tural commodities.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND AGRO-INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
24.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.  The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in climates which make possible a variety of agri-
cultural activities. Over three quarters of Zaire's population derives its
livelihood from agriculture and many of the remainder are indirectly dependent
on it for employment. Nevertheless, agriculture's contribution to GDP is only
about 18 percent, of which nearly 60 percent comes from between three and four
million family farms growing foodcrops, mainly for their own use, and small
amounts of cash crops, usually coffee or cotton. The rest of agricultural
production comes from plantations which produce coffee, rubber, cocoa and tea
for export and sugar, palm oil and cattle for the domestic market.
25.       The deterioration of general economic conditions, unfavorable farm
prices, overvaluation of the zaire and zairianization and nationalization
policies (para 5), have resulted in a decline in agricultural production and
in the deterioration of agro-industrial processing facilities. Zairianiza-
tion of small transport enterprises and small trading companies, in particular,
disrupted marketing of agricultural products as many owners dissolved their



enterprises and left Zaire. As a result, small farmers lost some of the
incentive to produce other than for subsistence needs. Agriculture has also
suffered from the low level of public expenditures for the sector. Since
1970, the volume of all export crops but coffee has decreased, while imports
of foodstuffs have increased rapidly to meet the food requirements of the
rapidly growing urban population. A quarter of the maize consumed in Zaire is
now imported (about 175,000 tons per year) although about 25 percent of the
land under food crops is devoted to maize cultivation. Imports of sugar
reached a peak of 24,500 tons in 1976, but on average, yearly imports amount
to 10,000 tons. Food shortages caused by the decline of per capita production
of foodcrops and by insufficient food imports have contributed substantially
to the recent high inflation rates. There is evidence in many areas that the
population is suffering from malnutrition.
26.       Historically, the role of Government institutions in promoting and
regulating agricultural development in Zaire was relatively minor. The pri-
vate sector has until recently dominated the development of modern agricul-
tural activities. The Government's role in modern, commercial agriculture was
traditionally limited to a modest regulatory function. Government support to
traditional agriculture has also been particularly weak as compared with other
African countries.
27.       As a result of this legacy of a limited Government role, the insti-
tutions responsible for agricultural and rural development are at present
poorly organized, and the respective roles of various agencies are not clearly
defined. Difficulties are compounded by frequent changes in institutions and
in senior officials and by problems of coordination among agencies. The
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is responsible for formulating
agricultural policy, providing extension services and supervising the para-
statal bodies under its control. For about a year, in 1978, the Department of
Agriculture and the Department of Rural Development existed separately but
they were merged into one Department with two State Secretaries, one for
Agriculture, and one for Rural Development, in January 1979. To date the
responsibilities of each State Secretariat are still ill-defined and coordina-
tion between them remains poor.
28.       After 1971, the Government set up a number of specialized develop-
ment organizations (offices) responsible for various crops, including sugar
(ONDS), livestock, edible oils, cereals, coffee, cotton, cocoa, fishing, wood
and ivory. Their functions vary, and may include applied research, marketing,
distribution of imported commodities, provision of technical assistance and
extension services to farmers, and, in some cases, participation in the admin-
istration of companies retroceded to their former owners. Because of lack
of funds and limited managerial and technical capacity, these offices have
generally been quite inefficient. In May 1978, seven of these "offices",
including the Office for Cereals (ONACER), were abolished. For cotton pro-
cessing and marketing, Government has promoted regional mixed-capital textile
firms. The National Staple Food Products Office (ONPV) has replaced ONACER
and is now responsible for providing farmers with inputs and marketing their
food crops. However, ONPV can play only a minor role because it is short of



- 10 -
funds and has to compete with private tradesmen offering producers two or
three times the official minimum price. Responsibility for sugar production
has reverted to the sugar companies.
29.       Credit for commercial agriculture comes from commerc'ial banks and
from SOFIDE, which charges a 15 percent per annum interest rate, plus commit-
ment fee, on a par with commercial bank rates. There is no institutional
credit for small farmers. A number of agencies implementing agricultural
projects financed by external aid agencies extend credit to small farmers in
the framework of these projects at ad hoc terms and conditions.
Mobutu Plan
30.       The Government has recently reaffirmed its intention to give prio-
rity to agriculture and, within the framework of the Mobutu Plan, has identi-
fied a number of priority areas for action. These include: (i) restoring trans-
portation links in the rural areas; (ii) raising productivity of small farms;
(iii) applying simple and low cost agricultural technologies; (iv) reviewing
pricing and marketing policies; (v) involving the private sector in the
recovery program through Development Agreements with industrial and commercial
enterprises, whereby funds from the collection of special charges are earmarked
for priority development projects; and (vi) strengthening agricultural training
and extension. Some of these are, by necessity, medium or long term in nature
and will take time to produce results.
The Sugar Sub-Sector
31.       Sugarcane is grown in all the country.  Commercial production and
processing into mill-white sugar are concentrated in Kwilu-Ngongo (Bas-Zaire)
and Kiliba (Kivu) which together produce a total of about 500,000 tons of
sugarcane per annum. It is estimated that smallholder production represents
between 200,000 and 300,000 tons per annum. Total consumption of processed
sugar during the last few years has averaged 67,000 tons, approximately 20 per
cent of which (valued at about US$8 million) had to be imported.
32.       About 30 percent of the total sugar supply is used industrially
to produce beer, soft drinks, and confectionery. Household consumption
of sugar and processed products containing sugar is heavily concentrated
in urban and industrial centers. Although per capita annual consumption
of manufactured sugar reaches 12 to 15 kg a year in Kinshasa and Bas-Zaire,
overall average per capita consumption of sugar in Zaire is one of the
lowest in the world at about 3 kg a year. At present sugar consumer prices
and income levels, domestic demand is estimated at about 100,000 tons per
year, with a deficit in domestic production of about 50,000 tons. Imports
have not been sufficient in recent years to bridge the gap and there have been
continuous shortages. As demand is growing at an estimated 6 percent per
year, the sugar deficit is expected to rise to about 80,000 tons per annum by
1985. If this amount were imported, it would cost to the country the
equivalent of US$48 million per year, in foreign exchange.



- 11 -
33.       The two sugar factories of Kwilu-Ngongo (Compagnie Sucriere) and
Kiliba sell to industry and wholesalers who assume responsibility for trans-
port and storage. Wholesalers then arrange distribution to consumers through
distributors and retailers. About 70 percent of the sugar produced by Compagnie
Sucriere is sold in Bas-Zaire. The sugar produced by the Kiliba factory is
sold in Kivu, Kasai Oriental and Shaba. In 1975 and 1976, sugar was imported
by ONDS (para. 28), and in 1977 by the sugar companies. In May 1978, respon-
sibility for sugar imports was transferred to commercial firms selected by
Government.
34.       Sugar prices are fixed by the Department of National Economy.  The
ex-factory price is set on the basis of an agreed cost of production, plus
a gross profit margin of 20 percent. The ex-factory production cost of the
sugar produced at Compagnie Sucriere in 1979 was equivalent to about US$445/
ton, using a shadow rate of exchange of US$1.0=Z3.0, which is lower than
the c.i.f. cost of imported sugar (averaging about US$600/ton in 1979 and
expected to be in the US$600-US$800 per ton range during the period 1980-1990).
At full development, in project year 10, the ex-factory production cost is
expected to decrease to about US$300/ton equivalent (in 1980 prices) because
of the economies of scale achieved by expanding processing capacity. To the
ex-factory price a levy of Z60/ton is added to finance the Agricultural
Recovery Program (para. 30) and the level of this levy is expected to be
reviewed from time to time to reflect general price increases in Zaire. In
the case of Compagnie Sucriere, a second levy is paid to the Department of
National Economy to equalize exfactory prices between the Compagnie Sucriere
and Kiliba factories; this levy amounted to Z63/ton in 1979. Wholesalers are
allowed a 15 percent markup on their costs and retailers a mark-up of 12
percent. The regulations for ex-factory prices are respected. The prices
paid at the retailer and consumer levels cannot be controlled and vary widely.
35.     To meet the domestic demand for sugar, the Government plans to reha-
bilitate and expand the two existing sugar factories and related plantations
and establish new estates and sugar factories with a total milling capacity
of about 50,000 tons a year. Implementation of a new project started at
Yawenda (Haut-Zaire) with financial and technical assistance from the People's
Republic of China. Production should reach 15,000 tons of sugar annually and is
scheduled to start in 1983 but substantial delays are expected because of lack
of local funds and logistic problems. The other new projects presently envi-
saged would cost over US$200 million each and their economic viability is
doubtful. However, considering the growing demand and the long period
necessary to implement projects of this type, there are no foreseeable risks
that production would exceed domestic demand. The Government would continue
to provide the Association with all relevant information about the sugar sub-
sector, including the financial and economic justification of investment
proposals in sugarcane plantations or factories, and would give the Asso-
ciation the opportunity to comment on these proposals (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 12 -
IDA Lending to Agriculture
36.     Since 1973, IDA has financed five agricultural projects in Zaire.
The First Livestock Development Project (Credit 398-ZR of US$8.0 million) was
approved in 1973, the First Cotton Rehabilitation Project (Credit 660-ZR of
US$8.0 million) in 1976 and the Ituri Livestock Development Project (Credit
697-ZR of US$8.5 million) in 1977. These three projects had serious imple-
mentation difficulties at the start, due mostly to the country's weak insti-
tutional capacity and the lack of counterpart funds. However, they have
recently showed some signs of progress. A fourth project, the First Palm Oil
Project (Credit 796-ZR of US$9.0 million) was approved in 1978, but is not yet
effective due to delays in finalizing administrative arrangements among the
Government, participating companies and cofinanciers. A Smallholder Maize
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on June 5, 1980. A Technical
Assistance Project principally designed to assist in developing an effective
institution for the development of the Kwango-Kwilu region   has been appraised.
Finally, through assistance to SOFIDE, the Development Finance Company, IDA is
financing large agro-industrial projects as well as small and medium size agri-
cultural enterprises.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed Project was identified in 1978, prepared by Compagnie
Sucriere and appraised in July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
from October 17 to 22, 1980; the Government delegation was led by Citoyen
Matu-Wanga Nganga, Division Chief, Ministry of Finance. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project", dated November 25, 1980
is being circulated separately. A Project and Credit Summary is given at the
beginning of this report. Special conditions of the credit are summarized in
Annex III. Two maps IBRD No. 14628 and 14629 of the proposed Project area are
attached.
Compagnie Sucriere
38.       Compagnie Sucriere was established at Kwilu-Ngongo (Bas-Zaire) in
1925 as a privately-owned Belgium Company. After independence and until
1974, Compagnie Sucriere continued to be fully owned by Belgian shareholders,
represented by the Societe de gestion des industries du sucre (SOGESUCRE),
a Belgian holding company. In January 1974, as part of the nationalization
program, Compagnie Sucriere was taken over by the newly formed Sugar Office
(ONDS). The technical and financial performance of Compagnie Sucriere deter-
iorated over the next three years and, in December 1976, 60 percent of the
capital and responsibility for management were restored to the original owners
(SOGESUCRE). An agreement on the amounts, timing and procedures for the
payment to SOGESUCRE of the Government's 40 percent share has been negotiated
and signed.



- 13 -
39.       Compagnie Sucriere has about 11,000 ha of sugarcane under rainfed
cultivation and a milling capacity of about 38,000 tons of sugar per annum.
The Company maintains its own road and rail network. In addition, it provides
about 3,800 workers' houses in 20 villages, one hospital with 230 beds, 15
dispensaries, 22 stores for the retail of basic goods, and 17 primary schools.
Most of the agricultural, transportation and factory equipment is in disrepair
because foreign exchange to purchase spare parts and to renew equipment has
been lacking for about five years. Besides the production and processing of
sugarcane, and the marketing of sugar, Compagnie Sucriere is implementing a
program aimed at promoting rural development and food production in the
Project area financed from the Economic Recovery Funds. The Economic Recovery
Funds are made up of the proceeds of a levy on the ex-factory prices, in
exchange for a commitment on the part of the Companies to invest such proceeds
in agricultural production and related infrastructure. Kwilu-Ngongo is linked
to Kinshasa (185 km) and to the port of Matadi (170 km) by rail and by a paved
road.
40.       The management of the plantation and of the factory is satisfactory.
Total staff numbers about 4,500, of whom about 4,200 are laborers. About half
of this work force originates from neighboring Angola, and is well integrated
with the local population. The Government is expected to continue allowing
foreign workers to work for Compagnie Sucriere. Most of the higher level
positions are filled by expatriates. However, the Company follows a policy of
in-house training of Zairian nationals and the number of expatriate personnel
has decreased from about 45 in 1976 to 27 at present.
41.       The financial situation of the Company is sound.  In 1979, its
current ratio was 2.3 and its debt-equity ratio 12:88. In 1978, however,
Compagnie Sucriere incurred losses due to its inability to obtain any increase
in the price of sugar while production costs rose by about 40 percent because
of inflation. It has therefore been agreed that internal prices of imported
and locally produced sugar would be reviewed by Government whenever required,
and at least once a year and after each significant change of the exchange
rate, and when necessary, promptly changed to allow the sugar companies to
meet their costs, service their debt and earn a reasonable return on their
invested captial (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The other financial constraint on Compagnie Sucriere's operations has been
the difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange to purchase agricultural inputs,
spare parts and supplies, and to replace equipment. The Government has
established a mechanism for allocating foreign exchange to Compagnie Sucriere
so that operating requirements can be met (Section 4.04 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement); the details on the operation of this mechanism would
be incorporated in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
Compagnie Sucriere.



- 14 -
Objectives and Description of the Project
42.       The main objective of the Project would be to increase the sugar
production capacity of Compagnie Sucriere in Kwilu-Ngongo from 38,000 tons
to 65,000 tons in order to meet domestic demand and substitute, for imports.
The proposed Project would also support pilot schemes aimed at improving the
production of foodcrops and at improving the living conditions of the rural
population in the project area.
43.       The Project, which would be implemented over four years, would
include the following components:
(i) rehabilitation and extension of the existing plantation
(from 10,800 to about 13,500 ha), and provision of equipment
for land preparation, cultivation and harvesting;
(ii)  rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugarcane transport and track maintenance;
(iii) rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and
construction of offices and staff housing;
(iv)  design and implementation of a program of applied research
on sugarcane;
(v) purchase and installation of a data processing and management
information system;
(vi)  staff training;
(vii)  pilot projects to promote foodcrop production and improve the
living conditions of the rural population.
44.       Plantation Rehabilitation and Extension.  The Project would provide
for the rehabilitation (early replanting, adequate fertilizing and weed
control) of the existing plantation which was damaged between 1974 and 1976.
An additional 2,700 ha of yet undeveloped land would be prepared and planted
with cane. Obsolete agricultural and transport equipment would be replaced
with new equipment and the existing rail track would be extended.
45.       Processing Facilities.  Installations and equipment (especially
mill tandems, boilers, turbo-alternators, cane-carriers, cranes) would be
rehabilitated and, where appropriate, expanded to raise the overall processing
capacity from 38,000 tons to 65,000 tons per annum.
46.       Control of Effluents.  As the release of factory effluents into the
river Kwilu might adversely affect the environment, Compagnie Sucriere would
submit to the Association for its review and approval (i) before June 30,
1981, a proposal for the monitoring of the water quality of the Kwilu river
downstream of the factory; and (ii) before December 31, 1981, a proposal
to control, to the extent appropriate any adverse effects of the factory
effluents and residues on the environment (Section 2.11 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 15 -
47.       Civil Works.  These would include extension of the factory's
garages, workshops and offices, construction of 34 houses for key staff and
about 1,000 workers' houses, expansion of the hospital capacity from about
230 to 300 beds; and construction of basic infrastructure, dispensary,
school, store and water supply for a workers- village.
48.       Research Program.  The program of applied research would consist of
trials on varieties, fertilizer requirements, herbicide treatment, effect of
ripeners, and cultural practices and would include irrigation trials on about
200 ha; provision would be made for employment of a research agronomist and
for the purchase of irrigation and laboratory equipment. Each year, before
June 30, Compagnie Sucriere would submit to the Association for its review
and approval an annual research program for the following year (Section 2.05
of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       Recruitment of Staff and Training.  Additional local and expatriate
staff would be recruited to prepare the detailed designs for the factory exten-
sion and the tender documents, to supervise construction, assist in start-up
operations, and carry out the additional work resulting from the increase in
production. Fifteen technicians and a research agronomist would be recruited
internationally to serve with Compagnie Sucriere for about five years. The
Project would also provide for short-term consultant services. Local staff
would be increased by 14 professionals and would be trained by the expatriate
staff whom they would replace after about five years. A detailed training
program would be prepared by Compagnie Sucriere not later than June 30, 1981
(Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       Data Processing.  An improved data processing and management infor-
mation system (payroll, customers billing, inventory management, etc.) would
be installed under the Project. Compagnie Sucriere is currently preparing a
detailed proposal for the design and implementation of this system. It would
be a condition of disbursement on this component that IDA has approved the
Compagnie Sucriere-s proposal (Schedule 1, para. 3 (d) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
51.       Pilot Projects.  Compagnie Sucriere has initiated a number of pilot
projects aimed at promoting smallholder production and financed from the pro-
ceeds of the economic recovery fund surcharge levied on sugar sales. However,
the implementation of these pilot projects is constrained by the lack of
foreign exchange financing, since the Economic Recovery Fund (para 39 above)
provides only local currency. The proposed Project would provide foreign
exchange to carry out pilot projects aimed at testing the feasibility of
larger foodcrop projects. Besides increasing foodcrop production, the financ-
ing of such projects by IDA would provide a useful forum for dialogue with the
Government on the agricultural development of the Bas-Zaire region. It would
be a condition of disbursement for each pilot project that IDA has approved
the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, para. 3 (e) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Implementation and Management
52.       Compagnie Sucriere would have the overall responsibility for carry-
ing out the Project. A satisfactory organization for project execution, i.e.
a special project team within Compagnie Sucriere, has been developed and is
being built up. This project team, including expatriate and local personnel,
would prepare tender documents and supervise construction. However the
success of the proposed Project would depend heavily on the continued good
performance of Compagnie Sucriere's management. Therefore, it has been agreed
that until December 31, 1990, no changes in Compagnie Sucriere's organizational
structure would be made without prior approval of the Association, and the
position of General Manager would continue to be filled by a person with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05 of the draft
Project Agreement). In addition, for the purpose of the execution and opera-
tion of the Project, the statutes of Compagnie Sucriere and SOGESUCRE are
being revised and the completion of these revisions in a manner satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total Project costs are estimated at about US$80.4 million equiva-
lent, the foreign exchange component of which is about US$63.8 million, or 80
percent.  The above cost estimates are net of import duties and include only
negligible amounts of sales taxes on locally procured goods. The average
man/month cost of resident expatriate staff (para. 49), based on individual
fees, international travel and local allowances is expected to be about
US$6,000 on average. The average man/month cost of short-term consultancy
services would be about US$9,500. The total cost of expatriate professional
services would be about US$5.0 million, or 6 percent of total Project cost.
Physical contingencies were estimated at 10 percent of the costs of equipment
and civil works. Contingencies for price escalation at annual rates of 10.5
percent for 1980, 9 percent for 1981, 8 percent for 1982, and 7 percent
thereafter were applied on the cost of all goods and services. Costs were
estimated in dollars and it was assumed that the progressive devaluation of
the zaire would compensate for the increase in local costs.
54.       Foreign exchange costs for equipment, staff and professional services,
training and pilot projects would be financed on a parallel basis by an IDA
Credit of SDR 20.2 million (US$26.4 million) and a loan from the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique of US$27.4 million equivalent (FF115 million). All
local costs, estimated at US$16.6 million equivalent, would be financed by
Compagnie Sucriere. In addition, Compagnie Sucriere would finance, in local
currency, the equivalent of the foreign exchange costs for civil works and
agricultural inputs (equivalent to US$10.0 million), for which the Government
would provide the required foreign currency. All the proceeds of the Credit
would be on-lent to Compagnie Sucriere at an interest rate of 15 percent per
annum, which is the rate currently charged by SOFIDE to large sub-borrowers.
In addition, Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign exchange risk which
would result in a real positive interest rate. The maturity of the sugar
plantation and factory loan would be 15 years including five years of grace.
The maturity of the loans for pilot projects would be determined on a case by



- 17 -
case basis (para. 51). The CCCE loan, which was approved by CCCE in October
1980, would be made directly to Compagnie Sucriere and would carry an interest
rate of 12 percent, with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of
grace; Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign exchange risk. The signature
of the subsidiary agreement between Government and Compagnie Sucriere defining
the on-lending arrangements of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the
sugar plantation and factory component, and the completion of all conditions
precedent to the disbursement of the CCCE loan would be conditions of effec-
tiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Most of the contracts for equipment financed under the IDA Credit
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. However, some equipment, for a total of about
US$3.7 million, would be purchased directly from suppliers, because of the
need for standardization of equipment and spare parts, under procedures
acceptable to IDA. The goods and services financed by Compagnie Sucriere
would be purchased according to normal commercial practices. They include:
(i) civil works materials and labor and (ii) agricultural inputs. Draft
tender documents for all contracts to be financed by IDA expected to cost
US$300,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for approval before bid invita-
tions are issued, and tender analysis would be submitted to IDA, before
contracts are awarded. The terms of reference, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment of technical assistants and consultants
would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Most of the factory equipment and some of the plantation equipment for an
aggregate value of US$27.4 million, would be financed on a parallel basis by
CCCE.
56.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed to cover 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures for (a) equipment, structural steel and
steelwork for the factory, (b) technical assistance, (c) training, (d) pilot
projects, and (e) data processing systems. An advance of US$675,000 on the
Credit under the Project Preparation Facility was approved in January 1980 to
finance the cost of services of seven internationally recruited technicians,
and office and drawing equipment to prepare the Project-s detailed designs and
tender documents.
Accounts and Audits
57.       Compagnie Sucriere's financial reporting is timely and satisfactory.
At present, the accounts are only audited internally, but since several audit-
ing firms acceptable to IDA are established in Kinshasa, no difficulties are
anticipated in carrying out regular external audits. Compagnie Sucriere would
have its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors and the certified statements would be furnished to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
Financial Projections
58.       The financial situation of Compagnie Sucriere is projected to be
good throughout Project implementation. As no provision has been made for
dividend payments (para. 59) and reinvestment, a cash build-un is expected to
occur. This would provide a financial buffer to reduce the cash flow problems
whichi might result from devaluation (para. 61).
59.        In order to maintain Compagnie Sucriere's sound financial position,
it was agreed that: (i) until completion of the Project, Compagnie Sucriere
would not pay dividends to its shareholders (Section 4.03 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement); (ii) until completion of the Project, Compagnie Sucriere
would not invest in assets not directly related with Project implementation
above US$500,000 equivalent during each of its financial years without prior
approval of the Association (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement);
(iii) Compagnie Sucriere would maintain a debt-equity ratio not greater than
70:30 before the completion date, and not greater than 60:40 on completion of
the Project and thereafter (Section 4.03 (c) of the draft Project Agreement);
(iv) Compagnie Sucriere would maintain at all times a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of at least 1.5:1 (Section 4.03 (b) of the draft
Project Agreement); (v) Compagnie Sucriere would not contract any debt if, on
the basis of financial projections prepared by Compagnie Sucriere and accept-
able to the Association, its projected debt service coverage ratio would
decrease to less than 1.5:1 as a result of this debt (Section 4.03(d) of the
draft Project Agreement); and (vi) Government and SOGESUCRE would provide
Compagnie Sucriere with sufficient funds, in proportion to their shares of
Compagnie Sucriere, in the event Compagnie Sucriere could not provide the
funds required to complete the Project (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Section 3 of the draft Shareholder Agreement).
Financial Return and Risks
60.     The financial rate of return of the Project would be 12.5% before
and 9.5% after taxes. The financial return should not be adversely affected
by increases in production costs due to increases in input prices or lower
than expected productivity, because sugar prices are in principle set, by
law, at a level which should enable the producing company to make a gross
profit margin of 20% (para 34). The financial rates of return are moderately
sensitive to changes in capital costs. A 10% increase in the capital costs
would reduce the financial rates of return by about two percentage points. A
10% decrease in the capital costs would increase the financial rates of return
by about two percentage points.
61.       Compagnie Sucriere would bear the foreign exchange risk resulting
from the devaluations which are expected to take place in Zaire from time to
time. The main effects of these devaluations would be (i) to increase the
cost of production inputs while the sugar price would remain set at its pre-
devaluation level and (ii) to increase the local currency value of Compagnie
Sucriere-s debt service, which could result in short-term cash flow problems.
The first type of risk would be substantially reduced by the provision of an



- 19 -
ample stock of spare parts and production inputs and the covenants on pricing
(para 41). The second type of risk would be reduced by the accumulation of
appropriate reserves.
Project Justification and Risks
62.     It is expected that the Project would increase Compagnie Sucriere
sugar production by about 70 percent over the four years implementation period.
The Project would provide employment for about 750 additional workers. The
basic economic rate of return (ERR), after deduction of the benefits which may
accrue to non-Zairians, is estimated at 17.5% for the plantation and sugar
factory component which amount to about 85 percent of the total cost of the
Project. The calculation of benefits is based on the import-substitution
value of sugar, assuming an economic life of the Project of 20 years and
including all expenditures for capital investments, replacement, operation
and maintenance costs directly related to production. A decrease of inter-
national sugar prices of 10% would reduce the ERR from 17.5% to 14.5%; an
increase of 10% of capital costs would decrease the ERR from 17.5% to 16%; an
increase of 10% of recurrent costs would decrease the ERR to 16%. A delay of
one year in the realization of benefits, would reduce the ERR from 17.5% to
15.5%. A reduction of the production to 90% of capacity would decrease the
ERR from 17.5% to 15%.
63.       The Project faces few technical, commercial or managerial risks
which could affect its economic and financial viability. Technical risks
regarding plant design and operations are low because (i) only well estab-
lished technology would be used in the Project, (ii) the Project would be
implemented by Compagnie Sucriere's staff who are knowledgeable and experi-
enced, and (iii) projections were based on the actual past performance
of Compagnie Sucriere. The risk of a sugar cane disease outbreak is low in
view of past experience and would be reduced by the diversification of cane
varieties. There are some risks of delays in Project implementation due to
the general conditions in Zaire; those which might affect the financial
situation of the Company have been covered by covenants concerning the pricing
of sugar and the provision of foreign exchange for operating expenses (para.
41). Commercial risks are low given the present shortage of sugar in Zaire.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire and
the Association, the Project Agreement between Compagnie Sucriere and the
Association, the Shareholder Agreement between SOGESUCRE and the Association,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.



- 20 -
66.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement) would be:
(a)  All condtitons precedent to initial disbursement
of the CCCE loan, except for the effectiveness of
the IDA Development Credit Agreement, have been met.
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreemenit between the Government and
Compagnie Sucriere defining the onlending arrangements of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the sugar plantation
and factory component has been signed.
(c) The statutes of the Compagnie Sucriere and SOGESUCRE have
been revised in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
December 4, 1980



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVZRAGES
LAND AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2345.4
AGRICULTURAL      309.8                                   MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (IS$)                     90.0        150.0      210.0                 228.9                    726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        87.0         81.0       69.0                   80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        17.7         21.6      26.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7            21.6      31.5                   17.3                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          47.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10K.                         8.0          9.0       11.0                   27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       58.0         69.0       87.0                   82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.7         44.4       44.5                   44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         52.8       52.7                   52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.8           2.8       2.8                    2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.0        2.7                    2.7                      2.7
L'RBAN                                 ..         5.3        7.7                    6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0          47.0      46.0                   47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.0         21.0      19.0                   19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          2.8       3.0                    3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           101.0        101.0       92.0                   91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    100.0        101.0      104.0                   90.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            36.0         37.0       36.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0         13.0       10.0                   18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        37.0         31.0      27.0                   27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0           43.0       46.0                   45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..           .          .
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        11.0       16.0                   23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                 ,,         33.0       43.0                   58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                  ..         4.0        5.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ''         5.0       22.0                   28.9
URbAN                                  ..         5.0       67.0                   67.0
RURAL                                             5.0        6.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           36850.0      30136.0   15537.0                 30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON       3440.0       2295.0    1938.0                  5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  ..       320.0      339.0                 1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                 ..        127.0
RURAL                                  *'       948.0
ADMISSlONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF hOUSEhOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          6.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL



- 22 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RCOANIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE   a
MDST RECENT            CENTRALLY PLANNED         INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b              ECONOMIES                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 98.0       113.0     102.0                       118.7                   100.1
HALE                101.0       112.0     102.0                      117.5                    102.2
FEMALE               95.0       114.0     101.0                      120.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 24.0        45.0      77.0                      100.2                     87.1
MALE                 27.0        51.0      81.0                      101.9                     84.4
FEMALE               22.0        38.0      73.0                       97.8                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 54.0         58.0      70.0                       47.4                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           25.0        21.0      21.0                       16.2                     21.3
SECONDARY                         16.0        18.0      19.0                       13.0                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..          ..      98.0                         ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         2.2        ..                         *.                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       120.0       152.0    146.0                       403.5                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0.       73.0     139.0                      200.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                147.0       169.0     129.0                      354.3                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0         9.8       8.7                       14.4                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10509.5    11408.2  12015.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  44.9        44.5      45.0                       40.7                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             64.5        47.0      33.0                       50.2                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                20.5       26.3       33.2                       30.8                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.1        56.0      55.9                       47.3                     44.6
MALE                                64.5        63.3      62.8                       57.1                     58.1
PEbALE                              50.1        49.0      49.1                       37.0                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.7         0.7       0.7                        0.7                      0.8
INCuNE DISTRIBUTION
PERCEhT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWIEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTDLATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    394.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    3940
ESTI2ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is rot uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; Ld UHO estimates; /e 1966.
April. 1980



- 23 -                                                           Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEPINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAIORS
Notes:  Although the data Iro drown from sources generally judged the most authoritative and rellable, at should also hr outed thur the- sac rot bh  iuro
nationally  oseporatlo  henause a  srhe lark of snandord.izd definitsa otd r_onepts used 1y  d                   _f.rert countrlIes Is collecting  rho dot.,.  lie d-,.e -rc, vote-
thelass, useful to describe orders of eaguitude, indicate trends, and chara--eelee crntair  -sas. differeoces benuous Countrirs
The sefetesce groups urn (1) tihe nne coutrry group of nhIe saubjert ro_reY and (2) aroostro  groupoorh sa=ewiat hoaf,r ucertee tacom  toc r                      uccoy  group
of the ssbject rountry (exoept foe "Capital Surplus Oll Exporcees" groop whies "iddle Iro.e Iorth Afrlica and liddlo Post" is uhose  hecause of stronger
soono-oultural affisnites).  Is the refereuce droop data tie avergags are populstion nel_ited urith.et.rmearv  fur  ia:c usdi afur and ;hol-u  unlu aino at
least half of nhnoantries in a frosp has dana for that indlrotor.  Since tie roverage of countreins nnong tie irdr-tors drperoorupends-h,   _ilahbiitc  of
dant  sod is  ono  unifor, caution mast be eseruoted in relating averages of see irditonor cos nother   These  .s..  e  o-l1  useful      compap co talus
of use indicator at a tise amo. g the country sad rafesencs grusps.
LAND AREA (thostnd sq.hr.)                                                                    poni ato n       er i   oa-l'u0ulattoo- utuouca f"  alamo  u. <ict11    nfo
Total - Totsl surfaer  area runpruning land area sod anlaud naters.                           s0 o.,Oi  .           'no . endoco.  o. l -t    o o rca L: IF tt erI
horios Etira           t - Istiests of agricultural area used te.porarily at permanently    Fo      na  HerhNcrs     fyero  - lopalatlo:c d occo' to ranse a)  .caocaooog
toe crops, ;past-re   sanker and ki-thes gardens or to ice fallos; 1011 data,.               ale and tonle araduatenusses, pr---     to of    rson. snc auntstart
GNP PER CAPITA (till - GNP par capita mariRates at curoren  market prttes, cul-                 urhan, and rural) dulvded bi  theat reupact--   nuhber of hopital ieds
solaced hr sane conveesion machad as World Blee  Atas (1916-7l8 i_as); 1960,                  uvailable is pobl-c and prinate general ass sperlalleed hospital and re-
197i, and 197t data.                                                                          habtlit-tio  centees.  Hanpil.tos are e-tabhishmeats ctnsnently staffed
by at least use phyiti.a.   estahibinehns prodding R i      iaripally custodial
ENERGY CONSUP4TiON PhR CAPITA - Annual coI asptfas af c..aercuai eneegy  (coal                   rate are  oat iscuIded.  R-at     hpt`I   heoweuer, inc]ude health and medical
sad lignite, penraleum=, natural gas and hydeo-, eucless gad geutheral situ-                  asenters st pssansetly stuffed by a physucias bIut hy a sedical assistant,
arlcl   In Alohurrm   of suet squivelent pen caper0; 1060, 1910, sad 1918           aetna, ridtife, ens.) which offee ls-patient feipssn- dataIs and provide a
data.t Ist tited r e at nsdi-ca  f-ailities.  Far s itiaal purpense  ous- hospi-
POPULATION AhD VTTAL STATISTICS                                                                 hos, t tals fral or rsral hosptals and   da  and-d-I...c
ntel plahion,  lid-Yes (nillis   - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978            hdisaton  per  ROscacal ted - Tosalnher of admissions taors  disciages
dna.                                                                                        Eran h-npitin1  dlo-ded hy the ruebe  of bedt.
Ulban Foyslaiiou  (Peres-t If tstal) - Ratto at spies to tenl population;
ditterenc defisnitios at arias areas mPy affect co=parability If date                  HOUSING
a=ongucosntries; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data,                                               hostage lI. e  of lassehald leerSns pee leasehold) - total, unian, end teei
Papelattan Ptojeailoss                                                                        A household consists of a gtoup of individuals she share living quarters
Papulation L. year  1000 - Cutest population posiertians are .bsed on 1981 a0                 d their  ain =esls.  A hoarder or lodger map oe rav ant be included is
total  .pulaltion by age and sex end thetenant- lity and fertilitytrtes.                  the househald fat statisti al parpnn. e.
Pro -cruas para=etera foe  ..atelity rtuns compriIs of three levels uss-                uoverae cashes af aersass per roan. - ntsl, arIse, and rural - Average nun-
ieg life expestancp as biroh increasingaush resatro s per iaertc  Iscase                 ber If persons pee tuna, Ia a1t arias, -a - total occupied  -tsnnti-ael
levnl, aud female life  expecency stabilla..g at 77.1 years.  The paso-                  dwellitgs, respecnively.  Dwellings e-alude san-penpeuet str--tu-es and
meters far fertilitv  eats also have  tnre  levels assmming declise in-                    -cope  prt.
fesrilty ....rd ing to inuase lesel end pass family planning penftrtanra.              Accent to fLectriotty  (percnnt of deelliegel - total, arise, asd tonal -
tEor  -o-aasy is shea assigned sea of cths  nine c-mbi-atiois of surtaluto                Convntioal d-et1iags with mlectriclty is liottg quartets us per-entage
sad fertility  mrends fan pralemtias F05PO55e.                                            of a        rtel, srbhn, and rural dellings respeccively.
Statianavy popuiltion - Is a nIstainpsy pepulation there is as growth visce
the birth i ate it eqal to  he death rate, and 'I"a the age strscturn re-    ED0CTIOI
tiu  a c..s.n.t.  This,is achieved only after fertility  rates destine to               UAdlON      r     ...  ..
the neplaeweRnt level af  .it net rep-d- ntion tans, when each genroatian                 Fetry sehoot - total, mule and fe-eis - least  total, suli and fenelt
of o=en repluses itself e.ctily.  The sttslaary populanion sloe wan                         setoltteae of all ages ae the pen_ty level as per-ettgs tof respective
ast n-ted  en thi  hsins of the erojeartd sharattlrietic- ot the popolatuar                 primry  eshoel-ege papsiotias,; norsally itoludes ahildsee aged 6-11
c_tne pear  100., and tno  rate of decline of fertll- co  sete ta repleas-                  rears hue adjusted fan different lengths of prissrp saucesion; for
Tees etatlusaro populateio  is reethed - The yeer when atatioa.ry populatito                   nsie ease pupiis see helos- en shave t               Y eff eed ssholagPe. .
sire  hue heen reached.                                                                    Sanduty school - total. male usd female - Ch spated as above; eseondary
edctieeqte I It -latetyearn of uppeaved primary instest tt,,;
Pet sq. k=. - Mid-pe-r populantin pea   square kil-me-ar (100 hettare-l of                    prcatins geeral, oseanesl  o  tearier trrintnB  instentions fee pupi77
tonal eras. agiutrllnd-s=ueos bv   o   giclua   adutur Ly a) 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses ate genetally
yee nS  h.  1gtotoe          -ad - Cuepatad us altos far egrc-Ita-I lend                      se-aded..  e   1l -l
-tly.                                                                                     Pouislerlmn   peeto   eodaryl - V--em...nI insti ntIion
Ppauloaia  AOe Structure (ferseent) - Childran (0-14 years). earking-gem f1S-                    t  L-ude teshacia, tsd,strtl, en other pregnam oacoprt isitdti  n-
6h yerass, and retied (65 yeers sad ones) as percentagen of aid-year pepa-                    d
Ilacls; hi, 1970, d 19p7  dt.                                                               Punl-t.chn ratia - ari-any, endisradarm-ITte1 strdwts ri-ollld in,
Pacolutnen Crsth Rnts (pterse-t) - fetal - Ann_al  growth ratas af  ettan  itd-                  primry and  ner raty  eoI iaedd ho sviterets of rabi- e I  the
y   lationsf 1950-60, 1960-70, ad 1970-78. 1970-Ig.                                             errespondagdl-osle
iufirnth Rata (p t1ho,1880dT  - And .9d0-livd                                                    an a Percentage of total sdult populeton aged 15 yearn and user.
population; 1960, 1970, and 197B dute.                                                  CINsLM'Tlf0
Crode leath Rais (pee thousand) - Annual deaths per ahousund af mid-year                    Passengep Cars lets thousand population) - Pusnenger fars comprine isst.l
papuIstlun;  1960  19170, and 1978 d.ta                                                                                                     d
Grons hApe-duAnion Rate  -veruge as bsu  of daughters a sasny vill Seuiar                         i tary seahig les  a     ht  e       ;      d    a=bulac. hea             ad
her cao eal reprudartion period if sin e-peeiences present uge-apif fic  tee-             tdiaitoe v             tiltir                     lo
tility rutes; usually  five-yearoersges dseg an 196D, 1970, and 19o7.                      IRadRecvs ngene sapl    pendaiasesd Afl typep               f uti;reclufers u adi-
P,!11, Planning   A-ceD1.-  Annual (thousand_s) - Annual  -uber of a-'pt.r                    bracat  todi geea   ulcpr    ua                     oua   n   xlds
ba   th-^                 A       1shuisd di)f    -i I fna= nier at nni     n kensed nesmoneis laaetrien and in yearn si-en reginstr on of nadne sew
ahir-onrol devIcet under eusps  at tai ane ltasX   pa nng pragram.                        uase is effect; dsta toe sauenas rears nay sno  in compuaalt since mess
FamIly      P Pan Ug-lera  f,e-est at married -oaeel    Percentage of manted               coneieuainhd   iluenI leg.                      tb,-   ..1,i..-
noren of child-bhearig age (15-44 years) ahl  use  frnth-control deo-een ti                   psnvres  ls  thoa pi                    -     e      r a         d
all nrttied no mn  us seas age gto-p                                                        gerastl publlo per ih-usand peptu.tion; enslodes selinensed TV receivern
FOOD AlD NUTRITION                                                                              -I-neontries and in pSte  weAs -    egietratias of TV sets wee is effect.
laden of Paso  Productios pen Capita (1969-71-100) - Index of per capitaasa                 _wspsaeer lrlatonI  (Der ehoosand ppoplation) - Swies the Ao:rage  birsa-
prodctio  otall oodcogmdites.   rodctio  exlude  sed an  fed an      hun at "dully general iantrestonewispaer", defined as a periodical pub-
prodndcail  of all f-ad asisedlalen.        cod-erl   sicldes gDod and fend bad             lication devoted primarily to -e-ording general see,  it in eons idaed
isanstead  dus ye ar) whnic  Cre     Idibeani  countapin sy gooni s (e.g.  sf gsand             beA  daily" if it appeansat least font times aweek.
ilanreud  ofsuar       bhIr  are  dillI-ad  _onnis s_trlestIa  lg. ofle as                 i-.s Annual Aiceed.n.. tnt Cupita pte  Ysu-l-uee~d en  heta-mst o
inn are antcluded).  Aggregate pradac-ius of sanh  -oanaro in blued 00                      clan   sould dren  tine  yea, i-lPding ederi- ase to Ot neIbenas
oatmieal  -serags p-odaser price weights; 1061-65, 1970  and 1970 da                        sad maul    durits
Per "sputa sapnl-  of calurien  (perenti of netoirenente)  - Computed froam                 ad mbile  -i
energy equivalenf of net food supplies available incouotry peCrRapita                 1ABO0  PRCE
Pr duo.  Anailbaln sePplien cNePenee d.m.stli p-edo-tin., imports lets                  I-1el tahoe Frut  (thousands) - Eonomically acnnon persons, including
oopot i,                 and e   i   s h  s  - l  ts r in  d ie   tr i u fti d   R nq d-   n ed    arces s    une mpl yoy d  hat  ex luding  house w i oes,  atu d en is,  e ns.
quacctl  ured estIstd bf   FAO besad Pg  hyandluenes ine d     faihtos. kequi-            Defieslalniison   . run coue.r.es are  ono  sotpareIle; 1960, 1970 and
our ond h       'elth cnslideriag tatirunmental teeteranure, body weights, agt            1978 dacar.             1 -       f         p           a
oan  ott dantribtian af population, aed allowing 10 percent farw untet                 Fgemale (perent)    - F   aear fates  as farm_ntg fo             hatin  sad
-ousehold level,  oft-65i, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                      b fIsing as pensg    of n lri.eh   forts, 1i98.  1970 end 1908 data.
ee        aSUpDY of protein  -eras per dey) - Protein  content of p-t uapitas                                   -t res              in,..s  ti
c  supplc of food pee day.  Nac soprly of fund is defined as above.  Or-                andustr      i (  t) outer andga  as pinitgs atnasal ni   faruna 1987,
qulrmEents far all countrias setahleshed by USDA provide foe mnimam                       1   ee        ity, 0ter and  st  peretage  f tt1   b    f e  196a,
allowaunc  of Of grams af tcaal protein per day end PT  grass of asma t                 P      an   lets
pules  pocae- n, af  hich 10 grams sh.uld is anneal proein.  Tihens stand-                -oniolty   Raie see aend a tonal,  eats, end female le-    teprseno
ardlst e Ioner than those af 75 genus of natal protein sad 23 grams af                    perrtsr rgteo  anl male ae  tamale palen     at all ages  repas
aneed  prot Burven,296i-6 aoageIond tie 7 sed, propheed hy FAl in the flied                9t.0, L      ond 1905 du.ta   Theser   Ito P's panlipi'a   raese recing
Iucld Pond Srvep;741061-il,1970 and 18117 dais.                                                                   d
Per papta protein suoply fro  aeleal and puls-Proteinspplp of fuad de-                       age-ann strature of the poputf.I end long time treed.  A few anti-
raced from  anisele and palest isnoseas per dav, 1961-i5, 1970 asd 1817 data.    mcatencls aree90 7  f    nationa-Eleninapopulaian adnn 15 aed 65 and one
Child (ages 1-4) Msrtolity Rate (pen thounaid! - Annual deaths per thiusand 00                 n  the ftal           t loh -n teens.
age group 1-6 years, ti shilddee is this agI gr..p; for mast develepieg stun-
trues data derioed from life toblso; 1960, 1970 sad 1977 dute. INC0MP DlSTRlbUTION
HEALTE                                                                                         Pectenage of PIti-teIsse  (blth in cash sad kind) - Receivd by richest
LifeAExpectancva- e-ge n=bar If ye .. f lifa r. i,,g    5 percen, olcest 20 pe-cnat, p--rest 01 per-est, and poor-es 40 percent
at hirtn; IL., 190D and 1978 data.                                                             houehold.
Isfa_  nenrlisy IsRate (pre  thousnod) - A_,ual deaths of infants_   adern  year    POVERTY TARGET CROCPS
of age per thouanad livs bieihs.                                                            Yle        ia F          t        n e      (      er  -ptd
Ac-esa to Safe later (pereent of population) - natal, orisdt and nUasa  -                      Oselane   ove   Poaes l         evel (sSs i     e   caial  uwbaioan irual-
Numter of people (anal, arias, and  -Ieal) with reasons.h..    area s to satef              AbPolute poety i                                    vel bew which ati
we  (includeseatd  surface  asstas or untreated but aseut m-tned                  sutriti-nallv adequate diet pla, essenatil non-food requiremntns ns not
name  such es thenatram pet ected -I...ie-st s ngs, s   arAntyb                   i -       sdfiated Rbleniue Perety In           eL (DbS pen  aupia) - urban end meat -
fInataIa or steodposI losated set =tne thas 200 meters froe n louse nay bh                     rsoa leloei osety cann                   leveleis d      d      em thonsa
cosnodeced 00 bteig alwitoonrasenable access ao  shut hohst.  In rural                       pevel wish. od-If thn tarhtiy. Uerbans ofve  in d-riand fare tha s         rl
hda           t have  crea Aend aimplpo  fist  te Puts tlfe ha mbirs of she Snuenhao i  Lsthenn   o         Ed i   sales Ahb  luts Perfo  snem LeveL (rercess) -ur b      an
'analh  s    t  seedap.                       r                n fc nhg the                  and rural - Pereens of population (stbie  and rural-a) hee "assolute poor".
.ce Ct acatta DLOsesal (anotnune ofnaoulation-ctotal. ashen. and
rural -      _ anto   at peopl eucel, arhun, and rural) nerved to entrees
disyosal .- percearuget of their respestive ppulations .  fxureta die-                                                       esnmtc and Social DItn  Division
ptnal t'o-                     IIuude tie unlleosiur  and aisp,asi, nit)h an  ithUat t -eatment                       Eoanomic Analysis and PrIjeti..na Deparnsent
of cacaon en. me ts and waste-naner by nafen-hurns svstrem uso  ths  use of            .                                                  April, 198g
la pruot-s and na-alar an-talletons



- 24 -
Annex I
ZAIRE ECONOMIC INDICATURS                             Page 4 of 5
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount          Annual Growth Rates                8hare of GDP
(million US$ at  (D, constant 1970 prices)            at Market Prices
current prices)             Actual                           (X)
1979            1977     1978      1979     1977       1978       1979
Gross domestic product -/           6,206           -3.6     -6.8      -1.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
Agriculture                      1,990           -3.3      0.2       0.6       26.5      29.7       32.1
Industry                         1,408            1.3     -8.3      -7.1      -21.2      20.7       22.7
Services                         2,658          -6.9      -7.1      -2.9      -50.1      47.6       42.8
Consumption                         n.a.            -6.8    -12.8      n.a.       92.8      87.3       n.a.
Gross investment                    n.a.            91.8    -45.9      n.a.       36.0       16.2      n.a
Exports of GNFS                     1,749            7.8     -9.0      n.a.       27.5      21.9       28.2
Imports of GNFS                     1,685           31.7    -33.2      n.a.      56.7       26.1       27.2
Domestic savings                   n.a.              3.3      8.1      n.a.        7.2      12.8       n.a.
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (Average 1978-79)
Amount
(US$ mln.)              (%)
Copper                              584.5                 37.0
Cobalt                              411.2                 26.0
Diamonds                            109.0                  6.8
Coffee                              152.8                  9.7
Other                               323.5                 20.5
Total                              1581.0                100.0
Merchandise Imports (f.o.b.)
Crude oil                           111.1                 10.2
Other                               980.6                 89.8
Total                              1091.7                100.0
(million M)                              % of GDP
Actual                           (at market prices)
PUBLIC FINANCE2/ (Central Government)          1977         1978          1979               1977         1979
Current revenues                               669.0         715.5       1,944.4             16.4         18.1
Current expenditures                           847.2       1,161.5       2,391.9             20.8         22.3
Deficit                                       -178.2        -446.0        -447.5             -4.4         -4.2
Capital expenditures                           110.3         119.7         129.2               2.7         1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                      1977                 1978                1979
(million 9 outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                       1,153.9              1,854.5             2,575.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                1,054.8              1,578.3             1,928.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                  537.0               644.9               987.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)             28.4                33.4                24.0
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 3/
Annual percentage changes in:                               641.5              1009.6               2131.6
General Price Index3/                                          61.1                 57.4               111.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                    26.8                49.6                22.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                  39.2                 20.1                53.2
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/ Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures financed by foreign sources.
3/ Retail price index (weighted average of market and shop indices).



- 25 -                             Annex I
Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1977        1978        1979
(millions US$)
Exports of goods & non factor services              1293        1548        1749
Merchandise exports f.o.b.                       (1228)      (1483)      (1679)
Imports of goods & non factor services              1784        1490        1685
Merchandise imports f.o.b.                       (1248)      (1023)      (1160)
Resource balance                                    -491          58          o4
Factor services (net)                               -309        -305        -338
Scheduled interest payments on public debt   (-153)          (-184)      (-181)
Transfers (net)                                      148         142         164
Current account balance                             -652        -105        -110
Non-monetary capital, net                            179        -241         -22
Net errors & omissions                               107         124         -21
Other exceptional financin1/                         435         297         215
Net accumulation of arrears                       (369)       (348)       (2]7)
Change in reserves                                   -69         -75         -62
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1979                         (millions US$)
Public Debt, incl.guaranteed                                 3779.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                   300.0 /
Total outstanding & Disbursed                                4079.6
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR  19793/
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                     11.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                       n.a.
Total outstanding & Disbursed                                     n.a.
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 23, 1979                              9 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 24, 1979-February 22, 1980                            Z 1.00 = SDR 0.375
Since February 28, 1980                                     Z 1.00   SDR 0.263
Average exchange ratet
1978                                                      US$ 1.00 = 9 0.836
1979                                                      US$ 1.00 = Z 1.729
September 1980                                            US$ 1.00 = Z 2.904
IBRD/IDA  LENDING,  October  31,  1980, millions US$
Outstanding & Disbursed                                   90.51           154.03
Undisbursed                                                 0.37          122.97
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                             90.88           277.00
1/ Includes debt rescheduling, SDR allocation, net accumulation of arrears,
IMF Trust Fund, valuation gain on aold sales, and amergenev aid.
2/ Eeti3ated amounts incurred prior to 1978.
3/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Represents actual payments.
December 3, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of October 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                             Amount in US$ million
Number       Year       Borrower    Purpose             Bank         IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Prior to      Congo &      Transport
June 1960    Otraco        Infrastructure    91.58 2/
Three Credits Fully Disbursed                                         50.00
255         1971      ZAIRE         River Transport                   7.00       0.21
272         1972      ZAIRE        Education                          6.50       1.39
398         1974      ZAIRE        Livestock                          8.50       1.85
1090         1975      ZAIRE         GECAMINES         100.00                     0.37
536         1975      ZAIRE        Highway III                       26.00       0.12
571         1975      ZAIRE        Rail-River II                     26.00       2.99
625         1976      ZAIRE        Water Supply                      21.50       3.09
624         1976      ZAIRE        Education II                      21.00      19.50
660         1977      ZAIRE        Cotton Reha-
bilitation                       8.00       6.02
697         1978      ZAIRE         Ituri Livestock
Development                      8.00       5.11
710         1978      ZAIRE        Fourth DFC                        10.00       0.93
796 3/     1978       ZAIRE        Oil Palm                           9.00       9.00
902 3/     1979       ZAIRE        Railways                          20.00      20.00
916         1979      ZAIRE        Highway IV                        26.00      23.26
988 3/      1980      ZAIRE        Fifth Dev. Finance                18.50      18.50
1040 3/      1980      ZAIRE         Smallholder Maize                11.00      11.00
Total (less cancellations):                        191.58        277.00    123.34
- of which has been repaid                         100.70           0
Total now outstanding:                              90.88        277.00    123.34
Amount sold:                      54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   90.88        277.00
Total TTndisbursed:                                  0.37        122.97    123.34
1/   Prior to Exchange adjustments.
2/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
-/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                 Type of           Amount in US$ Millions
Year           Obligor                Business          Loan   Equity    Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Development (SOFIDE)       DFC               -       0.76       0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company   Oil Company          2.50      -       2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company  Oil Company          1.61      -       1.61
Total gross commitments                      4.11   0.76       4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                    0.83      -       0.83
Held by IFC                                  3.28   0.76        4.04
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1090       Mining Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978; Present Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
and EIB, consists of expanding the mining and refining facilities of the
state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES). The project was
designed to increase GECAMINES- annual production capacity by 120,000 tons
of copper and 4,000 tons of cobalt. Following the invasion of Kolwezi in
May 1978, project execution was temporarily suspended. An Amending Agreement
was signed in November 1979. It calls for the completion of the expansion
program in two phases (construction of same plant units of the original pro-
gram being postponed) and of a rehabilitation program. Phase I of the expan-
sion has been virtually completed with the start-up of the DIMA concentrator
and the associated support facilities in June 1980. Little progress has been
made regarding Phase II of the expansion project which is scheduled for
start-up in 1983. Similarly, progress on the rehabilitation program has been
affected by lack of foreign exchange, difficulties with transportation and
shortage of expatriate personnel.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 255        River Transport; US$7 million Credit of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a) rehab-
ilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM AND RVF; and (e) feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports.  The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities. Physical implementation is now virtually
completed. Although ONATRA-s management and financial situation has improved
markedly, there are financial constraints and management shortcomings in RVM
and RVF. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1980.
Credit 272        First Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project originally consisted of (a) the construction or rehabili-
tation, equipping and furnishing of educational institutions to train teachers,
for primary education, for secondary-level general and technical education,
and middle-level industrial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management
study; and (c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to con-
siderable price increases, the Government and IDA curtailed the scope of the
project in 1976. It now includes only four institutions: one secondary tech-
nical school and three higher-level teacher-training institutions. It is
estimated that over 80% of the work has been completed. About 97% of the
furniture and equipment has been ordered, with about 57% actually delivered.
The services of the expatriate architectural consulting firm have been
terminated, and a governmental agency (CEPED) is to carry out the remaining
work. Local funds needed to complete the project are about E 17 million
including the foreign exchange equivalent of about US$2.9 million. Remaining
proceeds from the Credit are about US$1.4 million. The Credit Closing Date
is presently December 31, 1980, and the Government has requested a further
extension of this date. The Association is reviewing this request.
Credit 398       Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project-was designed to increase beef production in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) through the provision of technical support and funds for training
agriculturalists. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly.
Initially, a major constraint was the poor performance of the consulting
firm selected to implement the project, which led to the termination of its



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
contract in 1976. The project was revised in January 1978 in particular to
develop a training program in animal production and range management and to
finance the foreign exchange element of current expenditures on the three
ranches. The management of ONDE has tried to improve performance but limited
managerial capacity and inadequate performance of staff and lack of super-
vision capability still constitute major problems. The financial situation
of the project remains weak. There are however some signs of progress: the
Lubumbashi liaison office is now functioning satisfactorily; new expatriate
managers for the ranches and a financial director for headquarters are now in
post; producer beef prices were increased in December 1979.
Credit 536        Third Highway Project; US$26 million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980;
Cofinanced by UNDP, Belgium and France
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (OR),
by continuing to develop local expertise in highway administration and main-
tenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. Shortage of
local funds and foreign currency for capital and recurrent expenditures has
considerably hindered project implementation. The project was revised in
1978 to reduce the Government's financial contribution to the project by
curtailing road rehabilitation and feasibility studies and reallocating funds
to finance the most essential road improvements. At the request of the
Government, a ferry maintenance program was also added to the project.
Technical assistance to OR is performing satisfactorily but the Government
continues to have difficulties in appointing suitable counterparts   in the
Department responsible for equipment maintenance and repair. In 1980,
budgetary allocations have been fully adequate and OR's maintenance operations
improved further, although the Department responsible for equipment
maintenance and repair was severely restricted by the shortage of spare parts
and equipment utilization rate was below target. Rehabilitation by contractor
of the Kabinda-Fleuve Lomami road has been completed and the rehabilitation on
force account of the Lomami-Kindu section is progressing slowly. The funds of
the credit have been fully committed; the closing date has to be postponed to
allow completion of Kabinda-Fleuve Lomani road.
Credit 571        Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project.included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the Kinshasa-
Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially slow
due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints.
In March 1977, a new management was appointed at the head of ONATRA supported



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
by a team of expatriates, now numbering 60, including the General Manager.
All procurement is now completed or underway. ONATRA's financial performance
has improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have
improved in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Credit funds are almost fully
committed.
Credit 624        Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment of five new rural
primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of six
agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural institute,
technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and evaluation of
the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of preinvestment
studies in preparation for further education projects. The credit was not
declared effective until late 1977, because of the Government s request that
a local autonomous architectural group be established within the National
Education to implement the project. The group's performance to date has not
been satisfactory but some progress is expected following recent changes in
staff. The preparation of architectural working drawings, specifications, and
bills of quantities for the first group of institutions to be financed under
the project is well advanced, and the preparation of working drawings for the
remaining institutions is underway. The provision of counterpart funds
remains a problem. Substantial progress has been made in the achievement of
educational objectives. Because of implementation delays and an unexpectedly
high rate of inflation, however, the total cost of the project substantially
exceeds available funds and the Government has requested that the project
content be reduced in line with Government priorities. Emphasis would be
given to those components of the project designed to assist agricultural
development, namely, the Agricultural Technical Institutes and the Higher
Institute of Agricultural Studies. We are reviewing a proposal from the
Government to reduce the scope of the Project.
Credit 625        Water Supply Project; US$21.5 million Credit of
June 18, 1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980; Cofinanced by
ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for the six cities,
a comprehensive training program, and feasibility studies for additional
water supply projects. REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water
supply and electricity in Zaire, is the executing agency. Construction works
in the six cities are now practically completed except in Kamina where wells
are to be deepened to increase their yield. Rehabilitation works are
expected to be completed by April 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Credit 660        Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due
to (i) inefficiency of management of ONAFITEX, the National Cotton Agency.
(ii) Disagreement between the Belgian Cooperation and Government on respon-
sibilities of the Technical Assistance Team, (iii) lack of legal status of the
Project after the dissolution of ONAFITEX, in May 1978, (iv) lack of funds and
substantial administrative obstacles to efficient handling of procurement and
disbursement. Despite these difficulties the technical assistance team has
made commendable efforts and encouraging progress has been achieved, notably
in organization of services and cotton marketing. Cotton Zaire, a public enter-
prise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on
October 10, 1980. While attempts to establish accounts for ONAFITEX or the
account for funds during the interim period may have to be abandoned, an
opening balance for Cotton Zaire for 1980 has been completed. The financial
situation is now satisfactory.
Credit 697        Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Canadian International Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three
ranches to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter
facilities. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision of
counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the Kisangani-
Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary commodities,
insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays in
setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Implementa-
tion is progressing relatively satisfactorily. Civil works for veterinary
infrastructure have started in June 1980. Constraints remain the very high
costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low prices for beef,
the need to ensure the project-s financial autonomy through the setting up of
a revolving fund, and the so far unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of
bank notes in December 1979. Beef prices were increased in December 1979.
The ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it.
The slaughterhouse component and the training program are expected to start
shortly.
Credit 710        Fourth DFC; US$10 million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of
US$10 million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977. SOFIDE started
operating on July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.
In May 1973, a Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior
Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded General-Manager. The institution has
developed into a well run and capable development bank, despite the policies
of zairianization/retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and finan-
cial sectors. SOFIDE has recently diversified its activities by increasing
its operations in key economic sectors, especially agriculture and transport-
ation. SOFIDE has also decentralized its operation and has recently opened
three regional offices. In 1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department
conducted a project performance audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found
that SOFIDE had been generally successful in fulfilling its objectives and had
developed into a competent organization. The Fourth Credit is nearly totally
committed. A Fifth Credit (998-ZR) for US$18.5 million was signed in June
1980 but has not yet become effective.
Credit 796-ZR    Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978;
Terminal date for effectiveness: January 30, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983; Cofinanced by AfDB, BADEA, CCCE
The project consists of a five-year program to support the rehab-
ilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for replanting
and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment, improvement
and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of additional staff,
and training of staff. Effectiveness has been delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government to accept the terms of
the formers' participation in the Project and by administrative bottlenecks in
particular in the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, legal difficulties arose
between the Government and CCCE with respect to the Government's guarantee
applied to the CCCE loan. Much progress was made recently and the credit is
expected to be declared effective shortly as the conditions of effectiveness
remaining to be fulfilled include essentially the completion of legal
opinions and the notification by cofinanciers that all conditions precedent
to their first disbursement other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
have been met. One of the companies which were to participate in the project
has withdrawn and the financing plan is being revised. In the meantime,
substantial progress has been achieved in the agricultural program of the
plantations.
Credit 902        Railway Project:  US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Terminal date for effectiveness: October 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi
Fund for Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau;
the OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the
Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track
rehabilitation, equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
effective capacity. The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210
km of track ani ballasting another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting
locomotives and 12 passenger coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and
wagons; (d) telecommunications, workshops, data processing and service equip-
ment; (e) extension of Ilebo port facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and
(g) middle/senior technical and management staff training and consultant
services. Effectiveness of this credit, which has been delayed in particular
by slow progress in completing cofinancing arrangements, is expected in the
near future.
Credit 916        Fourth Highway Project:  US$26 million Credit of June 14,
1979; date of effectiveness: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the EEC
Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development
The Project finances 2.5 years out of the three year road mainten-
ance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of Roads (BR) (1979-81). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved roads; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable
ferries and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare
parts and fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and
technical assistance and training. The project would help meet minimum road
transport requirements for the agricultural sector and would result in sub-
stantial reductions in vehicle operating costs. Effectiveness of this credit
has been delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. In order to permit the continuation of vital road maintenance
activities the condition of cross-effectiveness with Saudi Fund was waived
and the credit declared effective on July 16, 1980.
Credit 1040       Smallholder Maize Project:  US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Terminal Date for effectiveness:
February 20, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1987;
Cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD).
The Project aiis to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes
of about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs in-
cluding fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and
sales services and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the
private marketing sector; (c) development of improved extension, training
and research facilities; (d) development of road and drinking water in-
frastructure; and (e) technical assistance in support of the above
activities. The credit is not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
KWILU NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project Identification:                                  1978
(b)   Appraisal Mission:                                  July 1979
(c)   Negotiations:                                    October 1980
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
1.   The Government would continue to provide the Association with all
relevant information about the sugar sub-sector, including
financial and economic justification of investment proposals in
sugarcane plantations or factories, and would give the Association
the opportunity to comment on these proposals (para. 35).
2.   Internal prices of imported and locally produced sugar would be
reviewed by Government whenever required, and at least once a
year and after each significant change of the exchange rate and,
when necessary, promptly changed to allow the sugar companies
to meet their costs, service their debt and earn a reasonable
return on their invested capital (para. 41).
3.   The Government has established a mechanism for allocating foreign
exchange to Compagnie Sucriere so that operating requirements can
be met (para. 41).
4.   Compagnie Sucriere would submit to the Association:  (a) a pro-
posal for the monitoring of the water quality in the Kwilu River
and (b) a proposal to control the adverse effects of the factory
effluents and residues on the environment (para. 46).
5.   Until December 31, 1990, no change in Compagnie Sucriere's
organizational structure should be made without prior approval
of the Association. Person filling position of General Manager
would be satisfactory to IDA (para. 52).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   Compagnie Sucriere would be required, in order to maintain a
satisfactory financial condition, to defer payment of dividends
until Project Completion, invest in assets not related to Project
only with Association's approval and maintain certain financial
ratios (para. 59).
7.   Government and SOGESUCRE to provide Compagnie Sucriere with
sufficient funds, in the ratio of their shares, to complete
the Project (para. 59).
Additional conditions of effectiveness are as follows:
8.   Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement relating to the
sugar plantation and factory component between the Govern-
ment and Compagnie Sucriere (para. 54).
9.   All conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the CCCE
loan have been fulfilled (para. 54).
10.   The statutes of the Compagnie Sucriere and SOGESUCRE have
been revised in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para. 52).
Conditions of disbursement are as follows:
11.   For the data processing compon nt, that the Association has
approved Compagnie Sucriere-s p:oposal (para. 50).
12.   For each pilot project, that the Association has approved
the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 51).






IBRD 14628
BLOCK  IT    BLOCK  I
X  BLIOoCc   I   BILOCC /I                                       REULCO,AR
REPUBI IOLE DUI ZAIRE
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT                                                                                      ->
PROJEr SUCRIER DE KW/IU-NGONGO                                                                \                                  t
BLOCK I
BLOC I
________ Plantrat on beanaur eso/c                                                                       j           -     /        ,s
E istFa pl-otat o
Existing mnain tracks                                                       tD<+
----- s-iE-W  seondary tracks
Kns-hs.-Matdi riona railway
U,aa   Cmo  rrdeer oconol- A'asXrtsa -Alota ts 
Fdvopstr6  arlpof/la
W2fer64, b27            %,                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Villages
P U               ALI C)Of                                           1:C                                                                                                                   i
F    a                      L                                                   H6pa                                                                         K i3METFRI 0       I         2         3         4         5
Riacro                                                      SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILSEO2






IBRD 14629
RE      C  08
ZAIRE
L    ,E,r8r,8
_  rl    ;n   wx    .  AJ  tBszoCc~~~~~~~~~~~LOKo IL BLOCK I
~- 1-                  8495  't'' -
KWILU-NGONGO SUGAR PROJECT
PROJFT SUCRIER DE /WILU-NGONGO
\>*> l L $ 4 t /4 > ;g//< 4i - / > / s=ttt 2 62 ~~~~~~~~~~BLOCK  1:I
_   ^;t; *                 /         \            //    ; /<-                 po    <                                                          BE~~~~~~~~~~~~~8OC g
Ext g plEsmn rok
-r'@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C .. i" f     t)vFAS:
p/ 1__PEc-s  second-ary troks
'----p8--A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f. -., rc,
Pro, Rt   n Iricks
P,,occOrRkS P,k- pro,er
Pro /  -.sec dry t-onkarfc
J   /   , |      \                                                                                                     v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ScoPO,C 0/0,f8p0npoo proier
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  Projecto,. \                                                                  cff :Vvr01880
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~~ Mid ^XX  lgef
/                          /                                                                                                                                    POO puro/el
Hz                          ,,__~~~~~~~~~, R jlter
-          Existing plootorior ror Wty
yor f-rrd or/arronraoeooCrOo
rrjo  lnx.csri W-Y
VillugeS
Drainage,
Q-r-rop
088,rlwfwe,o,rpogrrrrro, 0.0800,8, or,rco,r8r8,8 me8r                     fftc                                       O KILOMETERS 0               2         3 1                 5
d 9,01.p1 M .8 88,885888088,080Mww 0  prll,0585O5 rg 088 cS Wl xls,0ur0.nM LES a                                                                             2               3                             Depre-sr O
0eX. .00 .. 5a M00   8S V508  088#Wri858854851n d5  0v5 5 8 0nq8 Vn 8



