FFI CI AL
SDOCUMENTS   REDIT NUMBER 1089 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              O      7      , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1089 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          #fVV4ov4   /     , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (herei       fter cal ed the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A OCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided,
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to the Commis-
saire d'Etat Charge des Finances of the Borrower, dated Jan-
uary 18, 1980, the Association granted an advance to the Borrower
of $675,000 to assist in the financing of the preparation of the
Project;
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance the amount thereof
is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for in this Agreement,
(D) the Borrower has entrusted Compagnie Sucriere (herein-
after called the Company) with the carrying out of the Project
and the Borrower will, for this purpose, relend to the Company the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Borrower and Societe de Gestion et de Finance-
ment des Industries du Sucre, S.A. (hereinafter called SOGESUCRE),
a company established and operating under the laws of the Kingdom
of Belgium, own 40% and 60%, respectively, of the shares in the
capital of the Company;
(F) SOGESUCRE, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower
and into a Project Agreement of even date herewith with the
Company, has agreed to conclude an agreement of even date herewith
with the Association, whereby SOGESUCRE undertakes certain
obligations towards the Association, and
(G) the Company intends to contract a loan, for purposes of
the Project, from Caisse Centrale de Coop&ration Economique;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to make the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in said Project
Agreement,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Associat!on, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Company, as approved by the Borrower, of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant
to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(c) "Private Shareholder Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and SOGESUCRE;
(d) "CCCE Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Company and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique for purposes of the Project; and "CCCE Loan" means the
loan provided for in the CCCE Loan Agreement;
(e) "Statuts" means the statuts of the Company, dated
December 22, 1961, as amended to the Effective Date; and
(f) "Completion Date" means the date on which the Project
will be deemed to be completed in accordance with the last
paragraph of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall be automatically cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1991, and ending December 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Company is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (a) relend, for purposes of
the execution of the Project, the proceeds of the Credit to the
Company under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including
the right of the Borrower to verify that the proceeds of the
Credit have been used for that purpose;
(b) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof; and
(c) (i) exercise every power, right and recourse available
to it to cause the Company to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and not take, or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; and (ii) whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to the Company will be inadequate to meet


﻿-5-
the estimated expenditures required to complete the
Project, provide a percentage of the funds required
by the Company for said purpose equal to the
percentage of shares in the capital of the Company
held by the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a)   furnish to the Asso-
ciation all information that the Association may reasonably
request concerning the sugar sector in Zaire, including the
programs of investment in sugarcane plantations and sugar process-
ing facilities and the economic and financial justification of
investment proposals; and
(b) afford the Association an opportunity to comment on
such investment proposals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) whenever necessary but
at least once a year and whenever a change in the rate of exchange
between the currency of the Borrower and the SDR occurs, take,
promptly, all action required on its part to adjust the price of
sugar sold in Zaire as required to permit sugar producing compa-
nies, operating efficiently, to cover all their costs, service
their debt and earn a reasonable return on their invested capital;
and
(b) exchange views with the Association on any proposed
action pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to permit the consultants, engineers and technicians employed by
the Company for purposes of the Project who are not nationals of
the Borrower to transfer abroad such portion of their salaries as
shall be necessary to attract and retain such consultants,
engineers and technicians in case such portion has not been paid
abroad.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
make available for purchase by the Company the foreign exchange
required by the Company to operate efficiently.
Section 4.05. Throughout the term of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, the Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose of,


﻿-6-
or pledge or otherwise encumber, any shares of the capital stock
of the Company without the prior written consent of the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to enable the Company to recruit and maintain
an adequate labor force as required by the Company to operate
efficiently.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Company shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Company under the Project Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Company will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;
(c) the Statuts shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to affect, materially
and adversely, the ability of the Company to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(d) the Borrower, SOGESUCRE or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of the Company or for the suspension of its
operations;
(e) a default which would materially and adversely affect
the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial
condition of the Company, shall occur in the performance by
SOGESUCRE of any of its obligations under the Private Shareholder
Agreement; and


﻿-7-
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Company to withdraw the
proceeds of the CCCE Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the CCCE
Loan Agreement; or
(B) the CCCE Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Company to perform any of its
obligations under the CCCE Loan Agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or the Company from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of the
Company under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Company or the Borrower and
SOGESUCRE, as the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (f) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing for the relend-
ing of the proceeds of the Credit for purposes of all Parts of the
Project except Part I has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the Company;
(b) the Association has been notified by CCCE that all
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the CCCE Loan
pursuant to the CCCE Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and
(c) the Statuts and the Statuts of SOGESUCRE have been
amended in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Company, and is legally binding upon the
Company in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and the Company in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) that the Private Shareholder Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by SOGESUCRE, and is legally binding
upon SOGESUCRE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date  4vi,  f 7, /'I5    is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sectiq 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat charg6 des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa
Republique du Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN                             298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa, Combe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By11
SAthorlzed              epresentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-  11..  -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                SDR Equivalent)
(1) Equipment and                              13,720,000
steel for Parts A, to G
of the Project
(2) Technical assistance                        1,760,000
(3) Training                                      390,000
(4) Goods and services for                      1,150,000
pilot projects included
in Part I of the Project
(5) Data processing system                        390,000
included in Part H of
the Project
(6) Refunding of advance                          540,000
for preparation of
the Project
(7)  Unallocated                                2,250,000
TOTAL     20,200,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated under Category (6)
above is insufficient, any unpaid charges on the advance for the
preparation of the Project withdrawn by the Association pursuant
to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement shall be taken from
Category (7).


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) payments made for the data processing system included in
Part H of the Project unless the technical specifications of such
system are satisfactory to the Association; and
(e) payments made for goods or services for any specific
pilot project included in Part I of the Project unless the
Association has approved such pilot project and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement under which the proceeds of the Credit will
be relent to the Company for this purpose.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of an existing sugar plantation in
Kwilu-Ngongo and its expansion from about 10,800 to
about 13,500 hectares.
Part B:   Acquisition and utilization of equipment to prepare
land for planting sugarcane and to cultivate and harvest
sugarcane, and an initial stock of related spare parts.
Part C:   1.  Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the
transport of sugarcane and the maintenance of
pla .tation track, and an initial stock of related
spare parts.
2.   Adaptation to present needs of available sugarcane
transport equipment.
3.   Construction of transport infrastructure, including
about 10 kilometers of rail track.
Part D:   Rehabilitation and expansion of sugarcane processing
facilities up to a processing capacity of about 65,000
metric tons of sugar per annum.
Part E:   Construction of offices, social infrastructure facili-
ties and lodging facilities for plantation staff and
workers.
Part F:   Design and execution of a program of applied sugarcane
research.
Part G:   Training of local staff abroad.
Part H:   Installation of an adequate electronic data processing
system.


﻿- 14 -
Part I:   Carrying out of pilot projects to promote production of
food crops and improve living conditions of the rural
population.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986, and
will be deemed to have been completed only when: (i) physical
construction of the facilities included in it have been completed;
(ii) such facilities have been in satisfactory operation during
at least a sugar harvest season at an average production rate of
not less than 90% of their designed capacity; and (iii) 60,000
tons of sugar have been produced during a period of twelve
consecutive months.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


