Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18057
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENEiRGY PROJECT
(Cr. 2237-GUB)
J.une 24, 1998
Energy Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. IIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       GB Peso (GBP)
CFA Franc (FCFA) as of May 1, 1997
US$I                     GBP 2,190 (at appraisal, June 1990)
US$1              =      600 FCFA (at closing, December 31, 1997)
FCFA              =      65 GB3P (on May 1, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
BADEA                Arab Bank for Economic Development of Africa
DGE                  Direc9ao-General de Energia
DICOL                Distribuidora de CQmbustiveis e Lubrificantes
EAGB                 Electricidade e Aguas da Guin&Bissau
EU                   European Union
EIB                  European Investment Bank
ESMAP                (UNDP/World Bank) Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ICR                  Implementation Cornpletion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
LESDP                Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy
LPG                  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MNRI                 Ministerio dos Recursos Naturais e Ind6stria
MEF                  Ministry of Economy and Finance
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                  Special Drawing Right
SEE                  Secretariat of State of Energy
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                Mahmood A. Ayub
Technical Manager:               Mark Tomlinsonl
Task Teain Leader:               Philippe Durand



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTAlTION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBL][C OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
TAIILE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................                                                        1
A. Background .1.............................................
B. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives ...........................................                                  2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................... .                                         2
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................................              6
E. Project Sustainability..                                                                                                7
F. ]3ank Performance .......................                                                                               7
G. Borrower Performance .......................                                                                           8
H. Assessment of Outcome .......................                                                                           8
1. F'uture Operation ..................... ..9
J. Key Lessons Learned ......................                                                                              9
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................                                                                11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .......................................11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ......................................                                                   12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TMETABLE .......................................                                                            12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS ......................................                                                         12
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS ......................................                                                               13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR EAGB .......................................                                                     14
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .................................16
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................. 16
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC EVALUATION .                                                                                               16
TABLE 10: EC            O NOMIC RATE OF RETURN..................                                                   .............. 16
TABLE 11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ................................ 17
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS ................................                                                     22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS ................................                                                         22
APPENDIX I - BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .......................................                                        23
APPENDIX 2 - LAST MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE .......................................                                             27
MAP IERD 22885
This doc:ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnsce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATICON COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Project in Guinea-
Bissau, for which Credit 2237-GUB in the amount of SDR 11.3 million (US$15.2 million equivalent)
was approved on May 7, 1991, and made effective on April 17, 1992. The Project was restructured
in 1995 and, as a result, SDR 1.9 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) were cancelled upon closing of
the Credit on December 31, 1997, 2-1/2 years behind schedule. Last disbursement was on April 22,
1998.
The ICR was prepared by Philippe Durand, Task Manager (AFTGI) with support from
Abderrahmane Megateli (Consultant) and was reviewed by Mr. Mahmood A. Ayub, Country Director
(AFC14) and Mr. Padmanabha Hari Prasad (AFTS2).
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA final supervision/completion mission of October
1997. The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, field visits, discussions with the project staff, materials in the implementing agency files, and
the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR, providing information for the
statistical tables and comments on the draft [CR which have been taken into account. The Borrower's
contribution is shown as Appendix 1.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Energy Project was part of the Government's sector strategy aimed at bringing about
improvements in the efficiency, reliability and quality of energy services. The Project reflected to a
large extent the conclusions of the Government's dialogue with IDA on institutional reform of the
energy sector. It was also consistent with IDA's structural adjustment programs and Country
Assistance Strategy. This was IDA's first operation in the power sub-sector, although there were two
previous credits in the petroleum sub-sector, in 1981 and 1983, which had limited success.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the project was to improve the medium-term supply of petroleum
products and electricity. In particular, the project aimed at: (i) improving the safety and efficiency of
the petroleum distribution system and reduction of the delivered cost of petroleum products,
especially in the outlying rural areas and commercial fishing centers; (ii) improving supply and
distribution of electricity over the medium term; and (iii) strengthening the institutional and
managerial capabilities of the electric utility (EAGB), the petroleum distribution company (DICOL)
and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry (MNRI).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was approved in August 1991 and became effective in April 1992. It was
restructured after the April 1994 Mid-term Review at the request of the Government to eliminate the
petroleum component dealing with the rehabilitation and expansion of DICOL facilities, in view of
the decision to liquidate DICOL and Guine Gas. Funds from this component were reallocated to
expand the power and the MNRI institutional strengthening components. The project sub-component
for the extension of power distribution in Bissau was also cancelled in view of the deficit in power
generation capacity. In spite of an increase, power production did not improve as planned, since
cofinancing for the expansion of EAGB production capacity did not materialize. After restructuring,
IDA extended the credit closing date from June 30, 1995 to December 31, 1997.
4.    In spite of the difficulties arising from delays in implementation and shortfalls in the
availability of counterpart and cofinancing funds, the project's objectives were substantially achieved
for the petroleum and institutional strengthening components, but only partially for the power
component. Despite an increase in installed power capacity and load factor between 1991 and 1997,
available power capacity has decreased until 1994 to recover afterward. Electricity sales have
plummeted by 30% since 1991, although they remained broadly constant over the period 1994-1997,
because of a billing ratio falling from 76% in 1991 to only 50% in 1997 (i.e., an increase of
distribution losses). The reserve generation capacity remains negative. As a result, and despite an
improvement in the collection ratio from 79% in 1991 to 86% in 1997, the financial situation of
EAGB remains critical. However, during the period 1995-1997 an improving trend was noticeable in
the technical operations as well as in the management of the company, in large part as a result of the
project's components (private management contract, training activities for most EAGB staff, power
capacity expansion, support to production units' repair and maintenance).



5.    The major factors that affected project implementation were: (i) delays in meeting conditions
of effectiveness; (ii) non-materialization of cofinancing for the expansion of power generation
capacity; (iii) lack of counterpart funds for the institutional strengthening component; (iv) initial
reluctance to liberalize the petroleum sub-sector; and (v) slow start-up to launch the training program
at the MNRI and at EAGB.
6.    Several legal covenants were not met, mainly regarding the financial position of EAGB. This
situation and the consequent possibility of suspending disbursements were repeatedly raised by IDA
and discussed at length with the Government and EAGB during supervision missions.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
7.    The project's outcome can be judged as partially successful. This is due mainly to weak
institutional capacity and an overly demanding project, especially regarding conditions of
effectiveness and financial covenants. For the power sub-sector the project helped increase and
improve EAGB's generation capacity with the installation of two 1.5 MW units, and the rehabilitation
of most of the older units with spare parts funded by the project. It also helped improve to a certain
extent the quality of services: although outages and load shedding continued, they were less frequent.
However, EAGB's available generating capacity remains deficient because (i) the planned additional
generation capacity to be financed by other donors did not materialize; and (ii) existing units continue
to have frequent breakdowns because of their age and the lack of preventive maintenance.
Nevertheless, the quick rehabilitation of some of these units was found economically justified,
particularly in considerable load shedding.
8.    The two-year management contract for EAGB with a foreign firm helped improve EAGB
operations and management. EAGB was successfully reorganized and financially restructured. New
management information procedures, accounting and billing systems were introduced and are
functioning well. Training of the personnel was intensified both in the technical as well as in the
administrative areas. Mitigation measures taken to remedy environmental impacts of the Bissau
power plant have already given positive results, with a sharp reduction in liquid effluents from the
plant and improvements in work environment and safety. Finally, the reform initiated by the project
in 1995 to privatize the power sub-sector, which contemplates the implementation of a 15-year lease
contract with a private operator, should bring rapid improvements for the sub-sector. Government
recently implemented tariff adjustments, which should make the sector more competitive. Without
the project, the country's power supply would have been even more deficient and the reform of the
sector would not have been forthcoming. The project set the stage for the lease contract for EAGB
that will be implemented under the proposed :follow-up operation.
9.    With regard to the petroleum sub-sector, the project was successful, although the project's
development objectives were achieved through a different approach than that initially envisaged:
DICOL's liquidation rather than its restructuring, together with the full privatization of the petroleum
sector. The technical assistance provided to the Secretariat of State of Energy (SEE) and the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (MEF) was crucial in the liquidation of both DICOL and Guine Gas.
Petroleum product distribution and marketing are now totally in the hands of several private
companies, which will be competing for this small market. Mechanisms for regulation of prices and
monitoring of activities in the importation arkd distribution of petroleum products were defined with
support from the project and are now in place.
10.   The institutional strengthening component was also successful. It helped create a Technical
Cell and the Petroleum Regulatory Unit in the SEE, training of their respective staff, strengthening of
SEE's planning and monitoring capabilities, and the acquisition of office equipment, computer
hardware and software necessary for sector policy and monitoring by the SEE.



iv
11.    The experience gained in the execution of the project was useful for the design and
preparation of the proposed Water and Energy Project. This follow-up project should help in
deepening reforms in the sector, allowing further private participation, strengthening institutional
capacity and sustaining operations and maintenance of the country's infrastructure for the energy
sector.
12.    The key lessons learned from the project are:
(a) Project preparation should be carefully carried out with full the participation, understanding
and ownership of the client in order to ensure adequate communications and open dialogue
during the project cycle.
(b) Conditions of credit effectiveness or disbursement should be avoided by meeting them earlier
in the project cycle; in any case, these conditions should be achievable on a realistic basis and
fully discussed with the Borrower and implementing agencies.
(c) Risks that cofinancing may not materialize shouldl be carefully assessed during project
preparation and prior to appraisal. Otherwise, reliance on a substantial amount of cofinancing
that may not materialize could alter the initial project design and cause unnecessary
implementation delays, with the additional risk of having to scale down and restructure the
project.
(d) Incorporating two distinct sectors like power and petroleum, each with its own characteristics
and needs, in one project and linking them through conditionalities rendered the project's
design more complex and delayed project implementation. However, for cost reasons, it
would have been unrealistic to prepare and supervise two separate projects in related areas at
the same time.
(e) Reforming a sector like the energy sector is a complex and time consuming process that
requires deep understanding of the local conditions and lengthy prior consultations among all
the concerned parties in the country. In addition, strong leadership is needed to ensure that
obstacles and conflicts related to privatization are dealt with appropriately and consensus
based on popular support is reached without delays.
(f) Performance based management contracts with a private firm do not usually provide enough
incentives and autonomy of decision to the private operator. As a result, they often do not
ensure adequate financial and other resources to improve in a sustainable way the operations
and financial situation of small utility companies.
(g) Reform of electricity tariff structure should be carefully designed and tariff increase should
go together with improved electricity service and stricter commercial management, to limit
fraud and non-payment.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
PART I - IMPLEM[ENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. ]BACKGROUND
1.    Guinea-Bissau embarked on a broad reform program in 1987 with the support of two
structural adjustment facility loans from the IMF and two IDA structural adjustment credits. IDA
also supported the country's development efiForts with several other credits, among them the Energy
Project credit approved in 1991. The main objectives of the adjustment programs were to liberalize
trade and prices, improve public expenditures management and introduce other market-oriented
reforms to move away from centralized controls. Identification of the priority constraints to the
commercial energy sector development took place during the early period of the structural adjustment
program and included specific policy issues, such as adjustment in the electricity tariff and price of
petroleum products. IDA involvement in the project was based on the critical importance of energy
for the long-term growth of the economy.
2.    At the time of project appraisal in 1990, the supply of electricity was very unreliable, with
frequent outages and breakdowns. The prDblems of the electric utility, EAGB, derived from a
combination of uneconomic tariffs, weak management structure, poor commercial management, lack
of foreign exchange and shortage of skilled technicians and labor. This resulted in poor maintenance
of aging facilities, unreliability of service, significant system losses, low collection rates, lack of
adequate administrative and accounting procedures, and poor financial results. Improvement of the
management of EAGB in Bissau was identified as a first priority and IDA, through ESMAP,
undertook a study of management options which led to an agreement with the Government on an
action plan for reorganizing and rehabilitating the utility. As part of this agreement, the Government
replaced the top management of EAGB with a team of expatriates to run the utility for a specific
period, and introduced a Performance Contract between the utility and the State.
3.    With regard to the petroleum sub-sector, DICOL was initially the only distribution company
operating in the country. Owned 70% by lhe Government and 30% by PETROGAL of Portugal,
DICOL had a monopoly over importation, storage, transportation and domestic marketing of all
petroleum products except lubricants. In 1989, the Government gave DICOL the responsibility for
operating the state-owned Guine Gaz, the company in charge of importing and distributing LPG.
DICOL's depot and distribution facilities were in poor condition with inadequate safety and quality
control practices. The management structure and capacity was weak, with large product losses and
deficient accounting and administrative procedures. DICOL was inefficient and near bankruptcy,
despite unusually high prices charged for its products. To remedy the situation, the Government
considered various options, including divestiture.
4.    Lack of qualified manpower and rnanagement staff was a recurring problem across the
energy sector,. including for planning and monitoring functions at the MNRI. Low salaries (about a
third of those in the private sector for comparable jobs) affected staff morale and the ability of EAGB
and DICOL to attract and recruit qualified personnel. The situation was even worse for the MNRI,
which lacked some of the flexibility of EAG]3 and DICOL in managing its limited resources.



2
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
5.    The main objective of the project was to improve the medium-term supply of petroleum
products and electricity. More specifically the project aimed at: (i) improving the safety and
efficiency of the petroleum distribution system and reduction of the delivered cost of petroleum
products, especially in the outlying agricultural areas and commercial fishing centers; (ii) improving
supply and distribution of electricity over the medium term; and (iii) strengthening the institutional
and managerial capabilities of EAGB, DICOL and MNRI.
6.    The project initially comprised four components: (i) rehabilitation and expansion of existing
power generation facilities and rehabilitation of the petroleum storage/handling facilities at EAGB
and DICOL; (ii) expansion of the distribution network of these two entities, and related improvement;
(iii) establishment of a petroleum facility for the purchase and importation of petroleum products; and
(iv) provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the institutions in the energy sector.
7.    During the Mid-term Review in April 1994, IDA and the Borrower agreed to restructure the
project. While its objectives remained the same, the scope was reduced. The Bissau and Canchungo
power distribution rehabilitation and extension sub-components were canceled. The investments for
the petroleum component were also canceled as a result of the Government decision to liquidate
DICOL and Guine Gaz and liberalize this sub-sector. However, emergency rehabilitation investments
in DICOL's facilities were kept to allow safe importation of petroleum products and keep DICOL's
facilities operational during liquidation. Some of the available funds from the credit were reallocated
to the power sub-sector to finance a management contract for EAGB and increase the amount for the
purchase of spare parts for the Bissau plant; the remainder (about US$2.1 million) was canceled. A
specific disbursement category was created to contribute to the operating costs of the SEE's
Technical Cell, which the Govermment could not fully finance with its own resources.
Evaluation of Objectives
8.    The project's objectives were clear and similarly interpreted by the Borrower, the
implementing agencies and IDA. They were also appropriate given the urgent need for the
Government to reduce its fiscal imbalances, increase the participation of the private sector, and
provide adequate investment and maintenance resources and skills for the sector. They were in line
with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy, that sought to create conditions for long-term development
of the economy and reduce the country's large financial imbalances. However, given the critical
institutional weaknesses, the very poor condition of the existing facilities of EAGB and DICOL and
inadequate maintenance of these facilities, the objectives were too ambitious, especially since the
cofinancing to increase the installed power generation capacity did not materialize.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overview
9.    Overall, the project partially achieved its objectives particularly due to the corrective
measures after its restructuring. For the petroleum component, the objectives were substantially met.
The Government liberalized petroleum products imports and marketing and improved the sub-sector
regalatory framework. The Commission that carried out the liquidation of DICOL and Guine Gas
successfully completed its work, with technical assistance financed under the project. The process
was transparent and competitive, altlllhough there were long delays in recruiting the technical
assistance to assist the government.



3
10.   For the power component, the objectives were partially met. The reform to bring in a private
operator is well advanced, with the pre-qualification of two companies interested in taking over
EAGB operations under a long-term lease contract. After project restructuring, net power generation
increased by about a third, staff were trained and management improved. The project helped install
in the Bissau plant two units of 1.5 MW each and rehabilitate some of the old units. However,
unresolved government arrears led to the non-execution of the EIB- and BADEA-financed part of the
project.. Moreover, the Nova Central Plant funded by the ex-Soviet Union was not completed due to
its unfeasibility. Overall, EAGB is faced with a deficit of at least 10 MW compared to the initially
planned generation capacity. As for technical and administrative training of EAGB staff, it was
successful, with more than 120 persons trained locally and abroad. In addition, the 1995-1997
management contract (Regie interessee) with a European utility, funded by the project, was
implennented with some success and contributed to improving EAGB's operations and management.
Together with the EAGB financial restructuring plan, these efforts allowed the containment of
financial losses that would have been significant otherwise, and to practically balance operating
results in 1997. However, EAGB's overall financial situation remains critical because of large
distribution losses (technical and non-technical) and non-payment of customer arrears.
11.   For the institutional strengthening ccomponent, objectives were substantially achieved. A
Techniical Cell in charge of monitoring and. supervising the energy sector was created in the
Secretariat of State of Energy (SEE) with technical assistance provided by the project. The Cell team
received training, carried out a number of surveys, established a database for the sector, and assisted
in the formulation of policy framework for the sector, which was presented in a Letter of Energy
Sector Development Policy (LESDP). The regulatory framework of the petroleum sub-sector was
improved in 1993 and 1995 liberalizing commercial activities and allowing for fair competition. The
SEE supervised the replacement of the broken down and non-reparable Canchungo generation units
with two units of 200 kW each. The new units were installed and put in service successfully in a
record time, three months before the closing date of the credit. The project also financed equipment
and training for SEE staff charged with supervising operations of small power generation units
located in secondary urban centers.
Sectoir Policies
12.   Policy reform objectives of the restructured project were substantially met. The project
assisted the Government in formulating a comprehensive development policy and strategy for the
energy sector that aims at liberalizing the sector and allowing private investments. A new Electricity
Law, which eliminates the State's monopoly, will be presented to the National Assembly for approval
during the first semester of 1998. A private operator for EAGB is expected to be recruited by July
1998. A least cost expansion study to the year 2016 was completed and will provide the Government
with valuable information about future electricity demand and tariff policy. After a long delay, the
Government approved the restructuring of electricity tariffs in November 1996, including an overall
increase, a lower industrial tariff, an improved adjustment formula and better incentives for public
and residential customers. Finally, as recommended by the project, the SEE has indicated that it will
disengage itself from the operations of the secondary electricity production centers, which are under
its responsibility. These centers would be taken over by either the new private operator of EAGB or
by local private operators.
13.   For the petroleum sub-sector, the Government enacted decrees in November 1993 and
December 1995 liberalizing importation and distribution of petroleum products, thus putting an end
to DIC(OL's monopoly. With DICOL's liquidation, investments for the rehabilitation and extension
of depot and distribution facilities will be entirely financed and implemented by the private sector,
with Government's role limited to monitoring and regulating the sub-sector. To that end, a small
regulatory unit is under creation in the SEE to monitor prices and enforce new regulations to ensure



4
competition, consumer protection and safe and environmentally sound operations. In this regard, a
new petroleum products price structure entered into effect in April 1998, which includes an
adjustment mechanism to make these prices responsive to changes in world market prices.
Physical Objectives
14.   Most of the physical objectives of the restructured project were also achieved. For the power
component, two new units of 1.5 MW each started operations in May 1997, and produced a total of
13.7 GWh during the year. In addition, rehabilitation of old units, which started in 1994, was
accelerated, with more than US$2.3 million disbursed for repair and maintenance. However, the non-
execution of planned components to be cofinanced and the unfeasibility of completing the 4.2 MW
Nova Central power plant (under separate financing), resulted in a generation capacity deficiency,
which led to electricity supply curtailment, periodic power outages and load shedding. The
environmental problems of the Bissau power plant were addressed for the first time, resulting in
substantial investments to eliminate the principal pollution problem caused by diesel oil and other
effluents discharged into the rice fields behind the plant. In addition, a new compressed air station
and the rehabilitation of the fire safety equipment were completed and are operational.
15.   The poor condition of the distribution network, and the fact that not all customers have
meters, significantly reduced electricity billing. EAGB made a serious effort to inventory all
customers and build an up-to-date customer list, which includes all the information and specifications
required for follow-up. It installed more than 2,800 meters, thus reducing the number of flat fee basis
customers and improving the basis of the billing system. It also provided incentives and established
special squads for the detection of illegal connections, their dismantlement and the verification of
tariff category. The AfDB financed part of the Scorpio Project, which started in March 1997 and will
be completed in the second semester of 1998, will further reduce the potential for fraud, reduce
system losses, which reached nearly 50% in 1997 (about 20% technical and 30% non-technical), and
improve reliability.
16.   For the petroleum component, the liquidation of DICOL and Guine Gaz was carried out
successfully by the government using technical assistance provided by the project. Effective transfer
of assets was executed in October 1997 and financial liquidation was completed in December 1997.
Prior to liquidation, DICOL implemented the emergency rehabilitation investment program in the
Bandim storage facility in order to ensure safe continuation of operations. The liquidation brought
about US$2.5 million in cash to the Government, while technical assistance for the liquidation cost
about US$0.8 million. The Petroleum Facility provided by the project was successfully used for the
purchase of 8,400 tons of diesel oil.
Financial Objectives
17.   The financial objectives of the restructured project were not met by EAGB, even after the
1996 tariff increase and its financial restructuring, including re-capitalization. Sales have fluctuated
from 1991 to 1997 between 25 and 48 Gwh, but showed an improving trend during the last two years.
Except for 1992, EAGB recorded important financial losses each year during the 1991-1997 period.
However, the amount decreased in 1997, and the forecast for 1998 is expected to reverse this
negative trend and show for the first time a small positive net income of FCFA53 million (about
US$88,000). EAGB was not able to meet the project financial covenants and many of the
perfornance indicators included in the performance and management contracts (commercial and
technical performance), although some indicators improved over the period (i.e. collection ratio, load
factor and power generation). Major causes of the poor financial situation are the technical losses,
which are aggravated by significant non-technical losses (fraud). Losses in its water operations and
high inflation in the country until 1997 further contributed to EAGB's poor financial performance.



5
18.   Arrears payments to EAGB by private customers and non-guaranteed public sector customers
continue to be a problem, even though a major effort was undertaken to improve collection. EAGB,
in agreement with the Government, divided its public sector customers into two categories: (a) those
for which consumption payment is guaranteed by the Government (which includes strategic
customers); and (b) those customers that are autonomous in managing their budget and which still
have significant arrears with EAGB (up to 4 rnonths by the end of 1997). In order to reduce these
arrears, EAGB is negotiating with the Government to increase the number of customers in the list of
guaranteed customers for which the MEF shculd automatically pay the consumption. In addition,
high tariffs led to some EAGB loss of income from small and medium size private business
customers who opted to produce their own electricity.
19.   With the support of Government and under the guidance of its Board, EAGB implemented a
financial restructuring plan, which was drawn up with technical assistance financed under the project.
As part of the plan, the Government recapitalized EAGB with an initial amount of US$1.0 million in
1996 and US$0.5 million in 1997. In addition, the Government authorized the restructuring and
increase of EAGB tariffs for electricity and water with an adjustment formula. The plan improved
EAGB's financial situation but did not eliminate its financial losses because of the problems
indicated above.
20.   Finally, EAGB has improved its financial and accounting systems and procedures, which
were lacking at the time of project appraisal. During project implementation, EAGB accounts were
well kept and audited. Its 1996 accounts were certified by a reputable international firm for the first
time, albeit with qualifications on asset valuation and customer accounts. All previous audits had
resulted in a disclaimer of opinion or serious qualifications by the auditor.
Institutional Developments
21.   Most of the institutional development objectives of the restructured project were achieved.
Institutional development initially included MNRI, DICOL and EAGB. However with the decision to
liquidate DICOL, efforts were limited to MNRI and EAGB. For the MNRI, institutional
development covered technical assistance for the creation of a Technical Cell in the SEE and an
extensive training program. The Technical Cell was established with six multi-disciplinary
professionals and its operating costs were covered in part by the project. Its mission is to design
energy policies, to monitor all activities in the sector, build a database and carry out studies and
surveys as needed. Its recurrent costs have been estimated to a reasonable amount financed from the
MNRI budget and sufficient enough to allow the Cell to perform its functions. In addition to the
personnel of the Cell, the project also provided training in technical, administrative and computer
skills to the SEE staff responsible for the operation of state-owned electricity centers in eight
secondary urban centers; more than 140 technicians were trained. Finally, the Technical Cell played a
valuable role in improving the regulatory framework of the petorleum sub-sector and in supporting
the divestiture of DICOL. The project also provided office equipment and supplies, computer
hardware and software and vehicles to support activities of the DGE.
22.   With regard to EAGB, the project assisted in reorganizing the company and streamlining its
operations. Its assets were re-valued. Along with customer monitoring and information up-date, the
billing and collection systems were computerized and kept up to date. An extensive training program
was implemented and helped strengthen EAGE,'s professional, technical and operational capacity. In
1996 and 1997, some 160 persons were trained in inventory management, accounting, organization,
computer use and literacy skills. In addition, suppliers of electrical heavy equipment organized 4 to 6
week training seminars for the technical personnel of the plant in the mechanical, electrical, safety
and control and management of plant operations. The financial restructuring plan introduced more



6
discipline in EAGB, and improved significantly the relations of management with the Board and the
two authorities of tutelage, the SEE and the MEF.
D. IMPLEMENTATIoN RECORD AND MAJOR FACToRs AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
23.   The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1994 and close on
June 30, 1995. It was restructured after the Mid-term Review in April 1994, and the closing date was
extended to December 31, 1997. Final project cost was US$13.5 million equivalent, compared to
US$23.16 million estimated at appraisal. Total IDA disbursements amounted to US$13.36 million.
The cofinacing planned from EU and EIB totaling US$6.7 million did not materialize (para. 26).
BADEA separate financing did not materialize either and AfDB separate financing suffered delays.
24.   Implementation was not always satisfactory, with delays in procurement and in Government
actions required to improve EAGB's and DICOL's financial position and reform the sectors.
Problems also emerged in the compliance with commercial performance indicators and financial
covenants. The DICOL component experienced considerable difficulties and delays due to the
inabililty to comply with conditions of disbursement of this component. These difficulties can largely
be explained by (i) the reluctance of DICOL's minority foreign shareholder to accept the
management contract that was planned in the project; and (ii) the reversal of the Government's
position concerning DICOL's privatization, when the financial situation became so catastrophic that
it had to be liquidated.
25.   The extension of the closing date to December 31, 1997 was linked to project restructuring
and reflected the time required to liquidating DICOL and Guine Gaz and preparing EAGB for further
private involvement. The rationale for the extension was: (i) the Government's decision in April
1994 to liquidate DICOL and Guine Gaz, privatize the petroleum sector and institute new regulatory
measures; and (ii) the Government's decision to reform the power sub-sector by bringing in a private
operator to take over EAGB's operations under a lease or concession contract.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
26.   Factors outside the control of the Borrower and the Implementing Agencies. The major
factors that affected implementation of the project were as follows: (i) Non-materialization of
cofinancing. During project preparation, several donors active in Guinea-Bissau's development
showed keen interest in cofinancing the project, among them AfDB, BADEA, EIB, EU, and several
bilateral aid agencies (including France and Germany). In the end, EIB and BADEA, with whom the
Government had arrears that it could not clear, did not provide the expected financing support to the
project. EU canceled its cofinancing in 1994. The French bilateral aid agency assisted in funding the
EAGB Management Contract from 1991 to 1994 (not included in project costs). In 1996, the
Government cleared its arrears with AfDB, which then proceeded with the distribution component of
the Scorpio Project with the DGE as the implementing agency. (ii) High inflation, which accelerated
from 15% in 1994 to 57% in 1996, increased costs and affected EAGB's assets, which became
undervalued. (iii) DICOL's complex legal and institutional situation. Following the nationalization of
the petroleum sector assets and the incorporation of Guine Gas assets into DICOL's activities, the
situation was not clear in terms of actual payments of indemnizations or transfer of asset ownership.
In addition, DICOL's foreign minority shareholder initially showed a reluctance to support the
Government's plan to liberalize the petroleum sub-sector and liquidate the company. This required
difficult and lengthy negotiations to reach agreement on the transfer of PETROGAL's shares to the
Government. (iv) The three changes of the Bank's Task Manager for the project during
implementation caused some delays.



7
27.   Factors subject to Government controL These factors included: (i) delays in fulfilling the
conditions of effectiveness of the credit, both before and after amendment, which resulted in more
than 12 months delay; (ii) accumulation of arrears for electricity and water payments by the
Government and public agencies, which led 1;o EAGB's poor financial performance and liquidity
crisis; (iii) lack of counterparts funds, which dlelayed the implementation of the MNRI institutional
strengthening component; (iv) delays in launching the training program for MNRI and EAGB - the
lack of skilled technicians delayed project implementation; (v) lack of coordination among the
tutelage authorities and clear definition of authority of each institution dealing with the sector, which
slowed decision making; (vi) resistance from the National Assembly and other concerned parties on
the liberalization of the petroleum sector and the privatization of EAGB; (vii) non-payment of
Governiment arrears to EIB and BADEA; (viii) slow decision-making on DICOL's restructuring
during the period 1992-1995; and (ix) the learning process of implementing agencies not used to IDA
procedures, compounded by the decision not 1o set up a Project Implementation Unit in the MNRI
(which was considered unsustainable), and difficulties in communications with IDA.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The achievements of the project in the petroleum sub-sector are sustainable, especially when
viewed in the context of the liquidation of DICOL and Guine Gaz, and the liberalization reforms that
have been implemented and those envisaged by the LESDP. The Government is committed to
enacting a new petroleum law which will provide a legal and regulatory framework and put in place a
transparent mechanism for petroleum product price adjustment. On the institutional side, the
Government is establishing a regulatory unit in the SEE for planning and monitoring of the petroleum
sub-sector. The proposed IDA-supported Water and Energy Project will provide funding to
strengthen this unit.
29.   In the power sub-sector, sustainability is a function of: (i) degree of implementation of the
envisaged reforms, which include the creation of a state owned asset-holding company and a water
and electricity operating company, leased to a private operator; (ii) expansion of generation capacity
and periodic preventive maintenance to ensure an adequate reserve capacity to meet peak demand
and a reliable service; and (iii) improvement of the distribution network to reduce losses and improve
the financial viability of the utility. The proposed IDA Water and Energy Project is designed to
address these issues mainly through the privatization of EAGB operations with some investment
responsibilities for the private operator. The project also includes an important component for
increasing electricity-generation capacity, extension of the distribution network, and resolution of
remaining environmental and institutional issues. Sustainability is also contingent on Government's
commitment to strengthen macro-economic policies and contain inflation.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   Overall, IDA's performance was satisfactory. However, the project was ambitious and
complex in a number of areas, and IDA's performance could have been better in three specific areas.
The first relates to the design of the project itself. EAGB provides two services, electricity and water.
At the time of appraisal, it was facing institutional and financial difficulties in providing both.
DICOL was in a similar situation, except that it was near bankruptcy. By excluding EAGB's water
activities, which were also facing serious difficulties, and including two distinct sectors in a single
project, project design became more complex, and implementation more complicated and
cumbersome.  Moreover, petroleum  conditionalities held back implementation of the power
component and the poor situation of the water sector worsened the financial outcome of EAGB. A
more logical approach would have been to consider instead two entirely separate projects, the first
dealing with water and power, since the financial performance of EAGB is affected by both, and the
second providing a small technical assistance iFor petroleum aspects as suggested during the appraisal



8
review meeting. But the possibility of two separate operations in the same year or two was
constrained by the limitations of the administrative budget.
31.   Second, the nature and number of project conditionalities and covenants (effectiveness,
financial, specific actions) put too much pressure on the Government and the implementing agencies.
For instance, rigorous financial covenants were included requiring EAGB to achieve an annual return
of not less than 10% after its fiscal year ending December 1991. Instead of setting stringent targets
on a pro forma basis, IDA could have adopted an incremental approach to financial and other
requirements.
32.   Third, IDA should have put more resources into project preparation and supervision because
of the complexity of the project, difficult conditions for its implementation, and limited resources of
the Borrower and its implementing agencies. Finally, during the six-year implementation period, task
managers were changed three times, with each having to resurne the dialogue at a different stage of
implementation. This resulted in lack of continuity.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory, particularly given to the
complexity of reforms to be dealt with. The Government raised electricity tariffs once under difficult
social conditions, although after some delay. It succeeded in getting the support required for enacting
the liberalization of the petroleum sub-sector and the reform of the power sub-sector despite
opposition from some segments of the society and political parties. Putting the SEE directly under
the responsibility of the Prime Minister helped to smooth the tension in the Ministry and reduced
delays due to conflicting views. DICOL and Guine Gaz were liquidated by auctioning their assets
and the Petroleum Facility was successfully used to acquire 8,400 tons of diesel oil. The Government
carried out a financial study of EAGB, approved EAGB financial restructuring and re-capitalization
plan and reduced its arrears for electricity and water consumption. However, most of these actions
were taken after delays that impacted negatively on EAGB's finances.
34.   The performance of the implementing agencies, MNRI and EAGB, was also satisfactory.
The DGE, after some delays due to a learning process and the lack of availability of counterpart
funds, was successful in establishing the Technical Cell, putting the training program on a fast track
and acquiring the material and office equipment needed to perform its duties. The DGE produced an
overall strategy for the sector that was translated into the LESDP, a prerequisite for the new IDA
Water and Energy Project under preparation. It provided valuable technical support to the DICOL
and Guine Gaz Liquidation Commission. EAGB and DGE performed fairly well in tendering and bid
evaluation processes. EAGB provided quarterly reports on implementation progress; MNRI's reports
were not provided on a regular basis.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   The development objective of the project was to increase the sector's efficiency. To that end,
the outcome of the project is fully satisfactory for the petroleum and institutional strengthening
components and marginally satisfactory for the power component. The project promoted the entry of
the private sector into the import and marketing of petroleum lproducts and resulted in the successful
liquidation of DICOL and Guine Gaz, reduction of cost of import of petroleum products, saving of
scarce hard currency, introduction of competition, and construction and modernization of service
stations coupled with significant improvement in services. The Government is committed to the
power sector reform being put in place, as indicated in its LESDP. The management contract was
instrumental in improving some aspects of EAGB operations. In the absence of the project, the
power assets would have deteriorated to the point where the country power supply system would



9
have been crippled. The IDA-financed production expansion was timely, particularly in the light of
the absence of cofinancing to expand the existing generation capacity.
36.   An ex-post analysis of the internal economic rate of return (IERR) was not conducted for the
petroleum component because investments were canceled and DICOL was liquidated. However a
simple analysis has shown that the reform helped reduce the cost of imports by about US$25/ton.
Total expenditures for the emergency work and the technical assistance to liquidate DICOL
amounted to about US$1.1 million. With a total petroleum product consumption of about 52,000 tons
in 1997, the payback of this investment is just a little over one year. In addition, financial benefits
included the amount collected from the auction of assets, elimination of government financial losses
and future expenditures, and future tax revenues that would be collected from the private sector in
managing formerly public assets. The sector reform should also result in the expansion and
modernization of the marketing outlets and a better and more reliable service in the capital and the
rural centers.
37.   The Bissau power sub-component's ex-post IERR and NPV discounted at 10% were
estimated at 25.8% and US$920,000 respectively for the two new generation units and at 17.2% and
US$222,300 respectively for the rehabilitated old units. For the two new generation units in
Canchungo, the IERR and NPV were 18.50%,o and US$61,500, respectively (Table 9). Only the
expansion of power generation and distribution of Canchungo was included in the initial scope of the
project, with an estimated IERR and NPV discounted at 10% of 21.3% and US$770,000,
respectively.
38.   The project has contributed to capacity building in the MNRI and EAGB by improving the
technical capacity and skills of personnel as a result of the training and technical assistance provided.
But this contribution could have been more significant had the training program been launched by
both implementing agencies as initially scheduled.
I. FrUTURE OPERATION
39.   The experience gained in the execution of the project was useful for the design and
preparation of the proposed Water and Energy Project. This follow-up project should help in
deepening reforms for the sector, allowing further private participation, strengthening institutional
capacity and sustaining operations and maintenance of the country's infrastructure for the energy
sector.
40.   Since going into operation, the two 3 MW units installed at the Bissau power plant and the
two 200 kW units at Canchungo have been operating satisfactorily, according to industry standards.
The rehabilitation of the older units helped increase the available generation capacity. The Technical
Cell should continue its program of data collection through surveys and expand its activities in
monitoring the sector and in assisting the Govemment in formulating policies for the sector. A three-
year operational plan and a budget for the Cell are under preparation. SEE has defined the functions,
organization chart, staffing, and budget and of the new regulatory unit that will monitor the petroleum
sub-sector and ensure its regulation. This unit should be supported under the new project.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   The key lessons learned from implementation of the project are:
(a) Project preparation should be carefullly carried out with full the participation, understanding
and ownership of the client in order ito ensure adequate communications and open dialogue
during the project cycle.
(b) Conditions of credit effectiveness or disbursement should be avoided by meeting them earlier



10
in the project cycle; in any case, these conditions should be achievable on a realistic basis and
fully discussed with the Borrower and implementing agencies.
(c) Risks that cofinancing may not materialize should be carefully assessed during project
preparation and prior to appraisal. Otherwise, reliance on a substantial amount of cofinancing
that may not materialize could alter the initial project design and cause unnecessary
implementation delays, with the additional risk of haviing to scale down and restructure the
project.
(d) Incorporating two distinct sectors like power and petroleum, each with its own characteristics
and needs, in one project and linking them through conditionalities rendered the project's
design more complex and delayed project implementation. However, for cost reasons, it
would have been unrealistic to prepare and supervise two separate projects in related areas at
the same time.
(e) Reforming a sector like the energy sector is a complex and time consuming process that
requires deep understanding of the local conditions and lengthy prior consultations among all
the concerned parties in the country. In addition, strong leadership is needed to ensure that
obstacles and conflicts related to privatization are dealt with appropriately and consensus
based on popular support is reached without delays.
(f) Performance based management contracts with a private firm do not usually provide enough
incentives and autonomy of decision to the private operator. As a result, they often do not
ensure adequate financial and other resources to improve in a sustainable way the operations
and financial situation of small utility companies.
(g) Reform of electricity tariff structure should be carefully designed and tariff increase should
go together with improved electricity service and stricter commercial management, to limit
fraud and non-payment.



11
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                             Substantial         Partial        Negligible Not applicable
(1/)          (V)                V/         (V)
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                                                                       EZ
Physical objectives                                                                             [I]
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (capacity building)
B. Project sustainability                    Likely                   Unlikely               Uncertain
(1)                      (1)                      (1)
C. Bank performance                        Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
(/)                      (a/)                     (a/)
Identification                                 C
Preparation assistance                                                   [Z
Appraisal                                      Cl                                               Jil 
Supervision                                    CC                                
D. Borrower performance                    Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                   [Ill
Implementation                                 E]II
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)                      C]                       ED 
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly                                                      Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
C1   E                    z                   z~~~



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Preceding Operations
1095-GUB First Petroleum      Promote resumption of offshore exploration        1981                  Concluded on
Exploration Promotion Project  by acquiring new exploration data, enabling                           12/31/86 and rated
the Government to offer new acreage for                                  satisfactory
exploration, negotiating production contracts
and strengthening Petrominas capacity.
1334-GUB Second Petroleum     A continuation of the First Project: assist the   1983                  Concluded on
Exploration Promotion Project  Government in its promotional efforts and                             12/31/90 and rated
continue institutional support and capacity                              satisfactory
building to Petrogui.
New Operations                Provide reliable and economic water and      Scheduled for 1998        Under Preparation
Water and Energy Project      electricity supply, increase power generation
capacity, strengthen institutional reform, and
build institutional capacity.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            05/88                      05/88
|Preparation                                             --                       10/88
|Pre-Appraisal                               |03/89                           04/23-05/05/90
Appraisal                                             03/90                  10/13-10/30/90
Negotiations                                            -                    03/18-03/21/91
Board Presentation                                   05/07/91                  05/07/91
Signing                                                 --                     08/21/91
Effectiveness                                        11/19/91                  04/17/92
Mid-term Review                                       01/93                      04/94
Project Completion                                     12/94                    12/31/97
Closing                                              06/30/95                   12/31/97
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(CUMULATIVE)
Appraisal estimate                 2.43         7.51         12 15        14.65         15.15
Actual                               0          0.71          0.93         2.02          3.52        10.43         13.35
Actual as % of estimate            0%          9.5%          7.7%         13.8%        23.2%
The last disbursement was made on 4/98. Source: IDA MIS and IDA staff estimates.



13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS
POWER SECrOR_
EAGB Mvarketing Performance as indicated in      Augast 1997 (average for Ist semester   Progress slower than anticipated in
Management Contact:                               1997,)                                improving commercial management, in
* before 6/30/97: Billing rate 71%                * 69% electricity/water                particular for collection of arrears of
* before 6130197: Collection rate 87%             * 77% electricity/water                private customers paying in PG. Unit GI
* before 6/30/97: Production Units available 290  * 380 hours.                          serviced. Unit G5 serious mechanical
h/month on average over total capacity.                                                  problem and repaired. G6 out of service
on definite basis. G8 & G9 put on
production 5/97.
1996 EAGB Accounts' Audit w/o reserves or with   Accounts certified by auditor with     Audit report for 1997 with minor
minor reserves.                                   reserves (stocks, assets, accounts payable).  reserves is expected.
Detailed Program of EAGB Personnel Training to be  Report to be finalized 11/96.         Major efforts made in 1996 and 1997.
defined before 10/96.                                                                    Priority actions identified and nearly all
executed.
Private Customers Arrears with EAGB smaller than 3    4 months as of 9/30/97.
months of consumption before end of 1996.
Government Arrears with EAGB smaller than 2       5 mo)nths as of 9/30i97.               Crossed debt settlement between
months of consumption before end of 1996.                                                Govemment and EAGB made on
._______________________________________________      1/31/97.
Reduction by 80% of accounts payable at 1/1/97.   Reduction by 40% as of 9/30/97 (from   Reduction less important than planned.
1,308 to 788 million FCFA).
Rate of return on revalued assets higher than 10%  Negative 1996 Income Statement (PG 64    Significant improvement in 1997 but still
billion equivalent to FCFA I billion or  with a negative net income of FCFA 150
USSI.7 million).                       million)
Increase of production capacity by 1.5 MW before  New capacity in line, one month and a
July 1997.                                        half ahead of schedule.
Energy component of the proposed Water/Energy     Consultant report finalized 11/96.     Final content of this component was
Project to be defined before July 1996                                                   defined in January 1998. Bidding
documents to be prepared with
______________________________      cofinancier support (BOAD).
All electricity customers should have meters before  Invrntory of customers finalized in  Still about 1,500 customers without
January 1997.                                     December 1996. 3000 meters installed.  meters.
Privatization of EAGB operations before 1998.     Report defining privatization option   Bidding launched out in January 1998
finalized in January 1997. Workshop    (under new project). Contract to be
organized in February 1997 within context  awarded in April 1998. Signature of
of proposed new project. Draft         concession contract expected end of June
Development Policy Letter for the energy    1998.
sector finalized in April 1997 Bidding
underway for recruitment of private
operator under leasing/concession
arramgements (two consortia were pre-
qualified).
PETROLEUM SECTOR
Liquidation of DICOL and Guine Gaz to be completed   Sale of assets carried out, contracts signed   Recovery of pending debts to DICOL
before December 1996.                             on 10/2/97, start-up operations on 11/2/97.  transferred to the Recovery Unit of
Financial liquidation finalized.       Ministry of Finances.
Petroleum Facility to be utilized to the maximum  First import of 8,400 tons of diesel carried   Second import of 6,000 tons not,
during liquidation                               out in March 1997. 60% of PF was used.    necessary. Remaining funds from PF
transferred to Treasury
Mechanisms and regulations for, and control of the  Defined with technical assistance support  Petroleum sector regulatory unit to be
sector, to be defined and put in place.          from a foreign consulting firm.         implemented in framework of SEE
restructuring. Regulatory texts were
__________________________________________  prepared and have to be enacted.
Structure of petroleum products prices to be efficient    Adequate structure put in place during  Fiscal aspects of new structure were with
and transparent before July 1997.                liquidation,                           the IMF.
New structure defined.
Definition of the strategy of privatization of petroleum    Satisfactory strategy finalized and
sector.                                          included in bidding documents for the
_ _____________________________              sale of DlCOL/Guine Gaz assets
Source: IDA, EAGB, SEE



14
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR EAGB
Net power generation (GWh)    SAR      36       40     44.6    47.6    56.7    66.8    73.1    79.9
Actual             42      37.7    36.0    33.6    40.2    34.6    46.6
Available power capacity    SAR       9.3      9.3    13.4    13.4    16.1    19.7    21.7    23.5
(MW)                        Actual      -     10.4      8.9      5.9      4.3     8.4      6.6      8.8
Power load factor (%)       Actual      -       51      51       50       55.      54       59       67
Electricity sales (GWh)     SAR      23.4       26     31.3    34.7    42.5    53.4    58.5    63.9
Actual      -      32      34.2    27.6    22.8    20.8    23.2    22.9
Billing ratio (electricity) ( %)    SAR  65     65       70      73       75       80       80       80
Actual      -      76       91       77       69       52       67      50
Collection ratio (electricity) %   Actual       79       82      65       81       82       74       86
Average electricity tariff  SAR      23.4    38.1    35.8    33.0    31.1    29.8    28.7             -
(US cent/KWh)               Actual      -    24.0    25.6    28.0    19.1    29.1    22.0            31
Water production            Actual      -    5750    6100    6727    4960    4908    5313    6515
(thousand m3)
Water sales                 Actual      -    2680    3900    3504    3113    2475    2762    2083
(thousand m3)
Rate of return (%/6)        SAR         -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Actual            -0.6      0.4    -1.9    -4.1    -8.5    -8.6    -1.2
Debt/equity ratio           SAR         -   45/55    56/44    58/42    65/35    64/36    59/41        -
Actual      -    6/94      3/97     3/97    8/92    18/82    32/68    38/62
(Note: Actual numbers provided by EAGB)



15
TABLE 7: STUDIES
Accounting and Financial Management  Upgrade and modemize DICOL's           Not Completed    With the Govemment decision to
System                              accounting, internal control and financial               liquidate DICOL, this study was not
procedures                                               anymore needed.
Financial and Accounting Audit      Value DICOL and Guind Gaz Assets        Completed        Was essential to prepare DICOL's and
Guine Gaz liquidation and serves as a
basis to assess the bid offers
Advisory Services and Technical     Prepare bid documents for DICOL and     Completed        Was essential in assisting the
Assistance                          Guine Gaz liquidation, assist in bid offers              Liquidation Commission before, during
evaluation, negotiations and final transfer              and after the liquidation process of
of assets to new owners                                  DICOL and Guine Gaz
Data Processing Systems             Implement four systerns for EAGB: billing,   Completed   Helped EAGB develop complete new
accounting, payroll arnd inventory                       computerized systems and use them
efficiently to keep accounts, prepare
financial statements, prepare timely bills
for client and keep good track and
control of inventory. Was used as a
basis to train the accounting, finance and
commercial personnel
Financial and Accounting            Carry technical audit to re-value EAGB's    Completed    Was used as a basis to re-value EAGB's
assets                                                   assets and to financially restructure the
company
Least Cost Expansion Plan and Tariff    Forecast electricity demand up 2016 and  Completed   No immediate impact. The main factors
determine Least Cost expansion Plan to                   calling for a pause are the refomn of the
achieve forecasted demand                                sector and the new arrangements that are
expected as a result.
Financial Projection Analysis       Carry out a financial analysis of EAGB  Completed        Was used as a basis to analyze
during the 1992-1994 and present financial               production cost of EAGB, determine the
projections for the medium term (1995-                   basic principles and options to modify
2000).                                                  tariff structure for water and electricity
and carry out EAGB financial
restructuring
Technical and Economic Audit        Assess work and investments required to  Completed       Was used as a basis to define and
improve Bissau plant operations and make                implement needed measures to have an
it efficient.                                           investment plan and improve operations.
Technical Evaluation                Define technical capacity expansion of, and   Completed  Was used to tackle operating problems
problems and options for Bissau plant after              of plant, define list of spare parts needed
analysis of existing capacity generation                 to start a rigorous maintenance program
options and technical problems and define
required capacity to meet demand of Bissau
city
Environmental Assessment            Identify environmenmal problems created by   Completed   Was used as basis to implement
Bissau plant operations and prepare                     investments measures needed to correct
mitigation plan and corresponding                        negative impacts of problems detected.
investment program to remedy to situation
in light of future expansion of plant
Strategy for the Energy Sector      Investigate all the sub-sectors of energy,  Completed    Helped authorities grasp complexity and
make a diagnosis, determine key                          implications of an energy strategy and
parameters of strategy for the sector and                clarify basic principles that should
corresponding costs.                                     govem reform of sector. Also was used
as vehicle to train staff of Technical Cell
of MNRI
Technical and Economic Audit        Assess technical and economic status of  Completed        Study concluded that refurbishing plant
Nova Central power plant facilities and                  and make it operational was not
carry out a feasibil it y of their rehabilitation        economic. As result the plant was
and economics of refurbishing plant                      scrapped.
Legal Aspects of the power sub-sector   Carry out an analysis of the sub-sector and    Completed  Was used as a basis to draft new
make proposal for drafting new legislation.              electricity Law, which is under
consideration by the National Assembly.



16
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Electricity Component              610.00    8,560.00      9,170.00      0.30       7.80        8.10
Petroleum Component                700.00    12,120.00    12,820.00        0        3.00        3.00
MNRI Component                      30.00    1,140.00      1,170.00      0.05       2.50        2.55
Total                 1,340.00     21,820      23,160.00      0.35      13.30       13.65
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
~iZW%s1btateYUS$ Ternsa4         4dAIfVS$ "Theiiasn4d
Fore- - ;      - -- i j n:  Total    -     -Locl     Foreign  Total
IDA                                     15,150.00      15,150.00        0          13.30       13.30
RGB/EAGB                 1,340.00         0.00          1,340.00       0.35         0          0.35
EU                          0.00        2,000.00       2,000.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
EIB                         0.00         4,670.00      4,670,00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Total                    1,340.00       21,820.00      23,160.00       0.35        13.30       13.65
TABLE 9: ECONOMIc EVALUATION
z      a4~      2000      2001 , -02-    2003,.  2004,3   205             2006
A. Electricity Component
Bissau Units 8 & 9
Benefits                      3,374.8  3,709.3  3,529.8  3,559.7  3,381.7  3,178.3  3,178.3  3,178.3  3,178.3   3,178.3
Costs                         4,242.2  3,486.9  3,363.6  3,241.2  3,114.0  2,996.1   2,996.1   2,996.1   2,996.1   2,996.1
NPV (discounted @ 10%)    920.6
IEER (%)                    25.8
Bissau Revamped Units
Benefits                      8,558.2  8,606.6  8,190.1  7,846.6  4,916.4  4,916.4  4,916.4  2,646.0  2,646.0    2,646,0
Costs                        10,135.0  7,936.4  7,621.3  7,257.0  4,768.6  4,768.6  4,768.6  2,583.3   2,583.3    2,583.3
NPV (discounted @10%)    222.3
lEER (%)                     17.2
Canchungo Unit
Benefits                          1.2    100.8    100.8    107.1    107.1    107.1    107.1    107.1    107.1    107.1
Costs                           145.9     77.7      76.7     73.9     73.9      73.9     73.9      73.9     73.9      73.9
NPV (discounted @ 10%)           61.5
IEER (%/)                    1.
B. Petroleum Component
DICOL                           NA
TABLE 10: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
:   -  A-   - .. -pp-;-   C|  :    ra'isalE sate  - -   -Actual
Power Generation and Distribution
Bissau Time Slice                                                  25.6%                       NA
Bissau Units 8 & 9                                                NA                            25.8%
Bissau Revamped Units                                             NA                            17.2%
Canchungo                                                          21.3%                        18.5%
Petroleum Products
1. Rehabilitation of DICOL's Facilities                            21.0%                       NA
2. Three new marine depots                                         23.7%                       NA



17
TABLE 11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Development
Credit
1.02 (a)       5                       C       The execution and delivery of this Agreement on  Credit amendment became
behalf of the Borrower and the amended and    effective 4/3/96.
restated Project Agreement on behalf of EAGB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental or corporate actions.
1.02 (b)       5                       C       The Borrower and all its entities and agencies  Done.
have settled their electricity and water bills
falling due to EAGB as of December 31, 1994.
1.02 (c)       5                       C       The decision to liquidate DICOL shall have been  Decision published in August
published in the Bulletin Officiel and the    1994. Commission appointncit in 1
Liquidation Commission shall have been        June 1995.
appointed. 
1.02 (d)       5                       C       The amendment to EAGB Subsidiary Loan         Credit amendment became
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the  effective 3/3/96.
Borrower and EAGB, and authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental or corporate
actions.l
1.03         5                       C       As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant   Credit amendment became
to Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement, there shall  effective 3/3/96.
be furshished to the Association an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Asociation of counsel
acceptable to the Association.
3.03          5        6/30/95       CD       The Borrower shall: (a) no later than 6/30/95,  Technical & economic study was
furnish to the Association a plan, satisfactory to   conducted by Lahmeyer in 1994,
the Association, describing the actions and   concluding that Nova Central
measures required to ensure the utilization of  completion was not economically
theelectro-mechancal equipment of the Nova   justified in view of high
Central electric power plant; and (b) thereafter,   completion cost, uncertainty of
proceed to implement such plan in accordance  availability of spare parts & high
with the time table & other modalities specified    operational costs. Although
therein.                                      GOGB's opinion on this matter has
not been officially notified to IDA,
the plant has been rightly
abandoned.
3.04          5        6/30/92        C       The Borrower shall: (a) modify, in consultation    Tariff formula was reviewed and
with EAGB, EAGB's tariff indexation formula no  satisfactorily amended in
later then 6/30/92 in a manner satisfactory to the   November 1996. New formula to
Association, (b) annually review such formula    be included in future concession
with the Association, and (c) only further amend   arrangements.
such formula with the Agreement of the
Association.
3.05          5        12/31/93      CD       The Borrower shall, no earlier than January 1,  Done in April 1994.
1993 and no later than December 31, 1993, carry
out jointly with the Assocation a mid-term review
of the progress made in carrying out the Project.
3.07          5                      CP       The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to   Govt. settled arrears of guaranteed
cause its entities and agencies to settle promptly   and non guaranteed customers of
each month, their bills for electricity and water    EAGB as of 1/31/97, and has made
consumption.                                  repayments according to agreed
schedule. However payments for
consumption of public customers
have been insufficient since 2/97
(2-month arrears for guaranteed
cust. and 4-month for non
As amended and restated on July 13, 1995



18
Ageeen   ein   m>                                                                                                       C0w,1,u,,,.,,,nt-  t''
guaranteed customers).
3.08          5        9/30/95       CD       The Borrower shall: (a) no later than September   Financial study of EAGB was only
30, 1995 adopt a financial restructuring plan for   finalized in Jan. 1996. Financial
EAGB, whih shall be acceptable to the         restruct. measures & tariff
Association,including an assessment of the    reform/increases were defined in
working capital needs of EAGB; and (b)        Feb. 96. Two key issues (injection
thereafter proceed to im- plement such financial   of capital & elect/water tariff
restructuring plan in accordance with the time  restructuring) were implemented
table and other modalities specified therein.  later than initially scheduled.
Further capitalization of EAGB has
been timely implemented over
March 97 to August 97 (with
exception of last capitalization
payment amounting to only 15% o
total).
4.01 (b) (i)     I                      C        The Borrower shall (i) have the records and   Audit of 1996 project accounts has
accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Sect.  been conducted by independent
including those for the Special Account for each   auditor. Audit of 1997 accounts is
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-  underway.
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
4.01 (b)       1          6/30       SOON      Furnish to the Association, as soon as available,   Auditor's opinion not expressed in
(ii)                                         but in any case no later than six months after  a separate report, which has been
theend of each such year, a certified copy of the   requested from the Borrower.
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
4.02 (a)       2           10          C       The Borrower and the Association shall, during   Views exchanged on petroleum
October of each year, and at any other time at  product pricing during the March
therequest of either party, exchange views with  and October 1997 supervision
regard to the Borrower's petroleum product     missions. Following liquidation of
pricingpolicies and its plans in respect of the  DICOL and Guine Gaz, a new
overall development of the petroleum distribution  price structure has been defined for
sector,                                        all petroleum products and agreed
upon with Bank/IMF and is to be
enacted in first quarter of CY98.
4.02 (b)       2                       C       The Borrower agrees to establish prices for    A satisfactory price structure has
petroleum products sold by petroleum distributio  been defined (see 4.02(a) above).
companies which would (i) allow the companies
to cover their operating costs including taxes,
earn adequate return on investment, meet their
financial obligations, and make a reasonable
contribution to future investment; and (ii) be
reasonably competitive with prices for petroleum
products in the international market.
4.03 (a)       2         6/30/96       CP      Have the records, accounts and financial       Although DICOL's accounts were
statements (balance sheets, statements of income   not audited, detailed accounts have
and expenses and related statements) of DICOL,   been established for DICOL's
including the records and accounts for the Special liquidation by the Liquidation
Account opened for DICOL under the Project    Commission with Price
audited, no later than June 30, 1996, in      Waterhouse support. The
accordance with appropriate auditing principles   liquidation has now been
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to th  satisfactorily completed.
Association.
Schedule 5       5. 1.1 (a)     10                       C       For the purposes of Part C of the Project     The accounts were established and
(b)                                          (Petroleum Facility), the Borrower shall establish  used separately until May 1997,
and maintain, pending completion of the       when only a CFAF account
liquidation of DICOL: (a) an account in Guinea-   became necessary due to the
Bissau pesos (the Working Capital Petroleum   elimination of the PG.
Account); (b) an account in Dollars (the
Petroleum Facility Account).
5.1.2         10                      C       The Borrower shall (i) use the Working Capital    Done by DICOL's liquidation
Account as a revolving fund to receive its local    commission (as confirmed by audit



19
contribution to the financing of the importation of report) by depositing in the accouni
petroleum  products; and (ii) deposit into such  the payments made by petroleum 
.  account an amount in pesos equivalent to the    |lcompanies upon purchase ofn
number of liters of petroleum products sold to    products at DICOL's depot gate
customers multiplied by the corresponding CIF  i(minus duty and taxes paid directly 
value per liter of such products.| to Treasury).l
5.1.3        10                     C       The Borrower shall use the Petroleum Facility    . The Petroleum Facility was
Account to make available foreign currency for |provisioned as planned, although it|
the importation of petroleum products.      was not used since DICOL was|
|liquidated before the seoond  l
importation of petroleum products|
_                        .                                             0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~was required.l
5.14         10                     C      The Borrower shall: (a) deposit into the   |See 5.1.3 above. The first     l
Petroleum Facility Account, within ten (10) days  importation of petroleum products
following the end of each month, an amount in    was financed by direct payment
dollars equivalent to the amount in pesos   from the Credit.
deposited into the Working Capital Petroleum
Account during that month; and (b) apply the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (5)
of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I
to this Agreement: (i) to deposit therein an
amount not exceeding SDR 1,400,000 equivalent
to finance the initial importation of petroleum
products; and (ii) thereafter, from time to time to
replenish the said Account by depositing therein
amounts corresponding to the value of the
petroleum products imported, in accordance with
the disbursement percentages specified in said
table.
5.1.5        10                     C       Withdrawals from the Petroleum Facility     Bank's standard bidding documents
Account for the importation of petroleum    for procurement of petroleum
products shall be subject to submission of  products were used by Borrower.
evidence satisfactory to the Association of
adequate compliance with procurement
procedures in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.1.6        10       7/15/96       C       The Borrower shall, no later than July 15, 1996,   TA has been in place from July
employ individuals to assist MNRI in the    1996 to October 1997 (end of
operation of the Petroleum Facility in accordance  DICOL's liquidation
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
5.2         10        6/30/92      C       The Borrower shall cause EAGB to execute    The Contrat-Programme was
EAGB's Contrat-Programme by June 30, 1992.   executed by the Govemment and
MNRI shall allow the Association to paiticipate   EAGB. IDA participated in the
in all scheduled reviews of EAGB's compliance   last meeting of the Monitoring
under the EAGB Contrat-Programme.           Committee of the Contrat-
Programme that took place in June
1995 in Bissau. The Contrat-
programme ended in June 1997.
5.4         10                     C       The Borrower shall, no later than September 30,  Done.
1995, delegate to EAGB, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, the authority to
prepare, implement and supervise the extension
or rehab. works of the Bissau electric power and
water production and distrib. infrastructure, to be
financed under agreements to be signed after the
date of this Amended Agreement.
5.5         10                     C       The Borrower shall fumish quarterly reports on    Timely quarterly reports have been
the progress achieved in the execution of the  produced by EAGB, as well as
Project to the Association.                 semestrial reports by MEINR.
Project
(EAGB)                                           __   _                                                                              l



20
3:02 (b)      5                     NC       Subject to the para. 3 of Schedule 2 to this  Insurance companies were
Agreement, EAGB shall take out and maintain    unsucoessfully requested to submit
with responsible insurers, or make other provision an estimate for insuring EAGB
.                  ~~~~~~~~satisfactory to the Association for insurance  assets, based on inventory and
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be evaluation of EAGB assets that
consistent with appropriate practice.       was completed in July 1996.
3.03         5                      C       EAGB shall: (a) pay in full over a five-year  Done, through settlement of cross-
period existing arrears owed to DICOL in equal   debt with Govt. (DICOL's past
semiannual payments beginning end 1992, (b)    owner).
pay interest accruing beginning Jan. 1, 1993 on
all outstanding arrears referred to in (a) above the
rate of 15% per annum, and (c) pay all bills to the
Liquidation Commission within 30 days of
receipt of such bills.
3.04         5                      C      EAGB shall adopt, no later than December 31,    A 3-year rolling investment
1995, a three-year rolling investment program for program was defined and used for
the period 1996-1998 acceptable to the     the preparation of the follow-up
Association, and shall implement such plan.  Water/Energy IDA-supported
operation.
3.05         5                     CP       EAGB shall: (a) modify not later than June 30,    A tariff indexation formula has
1992 its tariff indexation formula in a manner  been applied since 1991. Although
satisfactory to the Association, (b) annually  not reviewed annually, it was
review such formula with the Association, and (c) reviewed and satisfactorily
only further amend such formula with the    amended in November 1996 as
agreementof the Association.                recommended by the project-
financed financial study of EAGB.
3.06         5                     CP       EAGB shall: (a) implement, not later than   Installation of meters for all
12/31/95 a metering and billing plan acceptable   electricity customers was
to the Association including the installation by    completed in June 1997. System
such date of meters for all customers; (b)  losses still high (40%) despite
implement a loss reduction program designed to   EAGB's efforts to reduce fraud,
reduce overall system losses to 30%, not later  because of high technical losses
than 12/31/92; and 27% not later than 12/31/95;   due to delays in Scorpio project
and (c) reduce arrears from private customers to  (improvement of distribution
120 days no later than 12/31/95             network). Private customer arrears
slightly above target (4 months).
3.07         5                     CD      EAGB shall, no earlier than Jan 1, 1993 and no    Done in April 1994.
later than Dec. 31, 1993, carry out jointly with
the Association a mid-term review of the progress
made in carrying out Part B of the Project,
including a review of EAGB's requirements for
management consultant assistance.
4.01 (b) (i)    I                      C      EAGB shall have its records, accounts and    Audit of EAGB's 1996 accounts
financial statements (balance sheets, statements   was completed, and 1997 audit is
of income and expenses and related statements)   underway.
for each fisal year audited, in accordance with
appropirate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
4.01 (b)       I                     C       EAGB shall fumish to the Association as soon as  Audit report of EAGB.s 1996
(ii)                                       available, but no later than six months after the    account was submitted (qualified
end of each such year: (a) certified copies of its   opinion). EAGB implemented
financial statements for such year as so audited;   auditor's recommendations to
and (b) the report of such audit by said auditors,   management in large part.
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
4.02 (a)      2                     NC       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,   EAGB had increased financial
EAGB shall eam, for each of its fiscal years after  losses in 1994, 1995 and 1996.
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991, an   However, tariff restructuring
annual return of not less than 10% of the average  effected in Nov. 96, together with
current net value of EAGB'S fixed assets in  implementation of EAGB financial
operation.                                  plan and results of the management
contract have resulted in much
decreased losses in 1997 (ROR of -



21
4.02 (b)      2   -C                         Before March 3 1 in each of its fiscal years,  EAGB has established and
EAGB shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by| periodically updated its financial
EAGB and satisfactory to the Association, review| projections.
whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in para. (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its
completion.
4.02 (c)      2                      CP      If any such review shows that EAGB would not   See 4.02 (a) above.
meet the requirements set forth in para. (a) for
EAGB's fiscal years covered by such review,
EAGB shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
4.03 (a)       2                     C       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  No new debt since Energy Project
EAGB shall not incur any debt unless a      and Scorpio Project
reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of EAGB shows that the estimated
net revenues of EAGB for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1-1/2 times the estimated debt service
requirements of EAGB in such year on all debt to
be incurred.
4.04 (a)      2                      C       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,   EAGB has still little medium- and
EAGB shall not incur any debt if after the  long-term debt (debt/equity ratio =
incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity  0.62 in 1997).
shall be greater than 70 to 30.
Schedule          2.2          10                     C      EAGB shall prepare no later than August 31,  Training plan completed in Dec.
1995 a timetable, satisfactory to the Association,  1996. Priority actions are being
for the training of EAGB's staff, and shall  implemented in 1997 under project
implement such timetable in a timely manner.    financing.
2.3         10                    NC       EAGB shall acquire all appropriate insurance  Insurers have been requested an
coverage no later than December 31, 1995.   estimate by EAGB for insuring
EAGB's assets.
2.4         10                     CP      EAGB shall implement, no later than December   Adequate accounting/financial
31, 1995 an accounting and financial        management system in place.
management system acceptable to the         Methodology/procedures for
Association, including adoption of a methodolog  revaluation of EAGB assets not yet
and related procedures for revaluing EAGB's    approved by Govt.
fixed assets on a yearly basis.
2.6         10                     CD      EAGB shall, no later than June 30, 1995, enter    Management contract received
into a two year management contract on terms    IDA non-objection in March 1996.
and conditions including performance indicators,  Contract ends in August 1997, to
satisfactory to the Association, with a firm  be followed by transitional
selected in accordance with the provisions of  management arrangements before
Section 11 of Schedule I to this Agreement.  implementation of lease!
concession arrangements in 1998.
2.7         10                     C       EAGB shall furnish quarterly reports on the  Done since beginning of the
progress achieved in the execution of Part B of    project.
Project to the Association.
C: complied with    CD: complied after delay   CP: complied with partially    NC: not complied with



22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
Through Appraisal                                68.0                                  128.0
Appraisal-Board                                  70.4                                  161.7
Board-Effectiveness                               6.5                                   12.3
Supervision                                     153.3                                 382.4
Completion                                        2.6                                    7.6
Total                                           300.8                                 692.0
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Preparation                10/88         4           1 0      TTE, CO,AE
Pre-Appraisal              4/90          512                     EC, CON_
Appraisal                  10/90         7           18       TTL, CON, PE
FA, EE, TS
Supervision (new TTL)      3/92          4           7         TTL,EE,PE,                                     I
Supervision                08/93         4           5         TTL, FA, EE,        1
PE
Supervision (new TTL)      10/93         3           8         TTL, PE, ES
Supervision/Mid-term       4194          4           9         TTL, PE, EC,        2           U              2
review                                                             EE
Supervision                10/94         5           11            TTL,            I           I 1
PE,.ES,.CON
Supervision                05/95         1           4             TTL             I           I
Supervision                10/95         1           7             TTL             2           5              2
Supervision                03/96         2           9           TTL, PM           2           U              2
Supervision                11/96         1           4             TTL             2           U              2
Supervision                03/97         1           10            TTL             S           S
Supervision                09/97         2           13         TTL, CON           S           S
PE      Petroleum Engineer      FA    Financial Analyst    HS   Highly Satisfactory
CON    Consultant               PM    Portfolio Manager    S    Satisfactory
EC      Energy Economist                                   U    Unsatisfactoiy
EE      Electrical Engineer                                HU   Highly Unsatisfactory
TS      Training Specialist                                I    Minor Problem
TTL    Task Team Leader                                    2    Moderate Problem
ES      Energy Specialist                                  3    Major Problem



23
APPENDIX 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECRETARIAT OF' STATE FOR ENERGY
ENERGY PROJIECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    At the end of the 1980s Guinea-Bissau's situation in terms of nationwide energy supply and
distribution was deplorable. The shortage of foreign exchange and management problems affecting
the two principal public enterprises in the sector (EAGB and DICOL) led to long power cuts in urban
areas and breakdowns in fuel supplies.
2.    A series of World Bank missions ledl to the identification at the beginning of 1990, in
conjunction with the Government, of the various components that would make up the energy project.
The project's objective was to improve over the medium term the production and distribution in
Guinea-Bissau of the main forms of commercial energy, chiefly petroleum products and electricity.
3.    In view of the likely impact on the country's weak industrial, agricultural and fisheries
infrastructure, it was decided that this objective should be attained by improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the fuel distribution system, thereby reducing costs, enhancing the production and
marketing of electric power and strengthening the management and oversight of the various
institutions involved.
Project Organization and Components
4.    In light of the existence in each subsector of enterprises that were to be given greater
administrative and financial autonomy, the organization and management of each project component
was identical, i.e. the funds allocated to electric power, fuels and institutional support were to be
managed by the enterprises themselves.
Project Components
5.    Institutional support. The main aiml of this component was to strengthen the technical
skills and working resources of the planning, oversight and monitoring units in the sector, especially
as regards the level of service provided by sector enterprises. Some studies were also undertaken with
a view to finding least-cost solutions for sector development.
6.    Electricity. The main objectives were to:
*     increase electricity production capacity in Bissau and the city of Canchungo
*     extend the medium and low voltage network in Bissau and Canchungo
*     obtain working resources for, and train managers and technical specialists in, EAGB.
Fuels. The objectives in the petroleurn-based fuels sector were to:
*     overhaul DICOL's storage, distribution, and marketing system, both in Bissau and in
the rest of the country



24
*     strengthen the security system and protection against fire, as well as environmental
conservation measures
*     provide technical assistance and training
*     set up a revolving fund to improve the system for supplying Guinea-Bissau with
petroleum products.
7.    Projectfinancing. Initially the following financing scheme was envisaged:
IDA   US$15.15 million
EIB   US$5 million
Govt. US$1.74 million
8.    Project implementation. Given the numerous conditions (not easy to implement within a
short period of time, and which in some cases had no direct bearing on the energy sector) imposed in
order for the credit to become effective, the project from the start experienced considerable delays.
These adversely affected the country's economy in general and services to consumers in particular.
9.    Some of the causes of the delays in project start-up were: waiting for confirmation of the
participation of other donors; the provision of the Government's counterpart through the Public
Investmnent Program (PIP); and the signature of subsidiary agreements between the Government and
the two public enterprises involved.
10.   Despite these difficulties, the restructuring of the project in 1995 saw a surge of progress in
its various components. The redefinition of the Government's energy policy led to a decision to
privatize the fuels subsector, and hence to the privatization of DICOL. As a result the project was
reduced to three components.
11.   Consequently, except for the electricity component, the project's results, enumerated below,
can be regarded as generally satisfactory.
12.   Institutional support:
*     strengthening of the DGE's institutional capacity via the training and skills
enhancement of managers and technical staff
*     establishment of an energy planning unit in the studies department to monitor
changes in the sector and propose strategies and solutions for its development.
Meanwhile the unit will also coordinate all activities designed to promote energy
efficiency, the rational use of energy and the development of renewable energies
*     acquisition of computer equipment and the setting up of a data bank for the sector
*     publication of information on the sector
*     support for the privatization of DICOL and Guine Gas
*     participation in the preparation of the proposals to revise sector legislation:
* basic law for the energy sector
* the law governing fuel sector activities
* the law governing electric power sector activities
*     institutionalization of a unit to monitor investments and regulate fuel prices. The unit
will operate as part of the inspection (oversight) service, its main tasks being to:



25
*     monitor the fuel subsector investment program agreed with operators in the
context of the privatizations
*     monitor and propose changes (if necessary) in retail prices and the price
structure of petroleum products
*     plan and execute inspections as stipulated by sector legislation, and
*     recommend improvements in the licensing process.
13.   Electricity:
*     Technical assistance to EAGB management (contract with EDFALYSA) for two years
*     technical assistance for the operation of the Bissau electric power plant for two years
*     restructuring of the enterprise, including new accounting control and inventory
management procedures
*     urgent rehabilitation of the plant and installation of an additional 3 MW of electricity
production
*     enhancement of the drainage and fire safety system
*     survey of clients and improvements to commercial management
*     preparation of complementary studies to expand the distribution system in Bissau and
certain interior towns.
14.   Revolving fund. Through the use of the revolving fund, energy supplies were maintained
during the crucial phase of the liquidation of I)ICOL, and at lower cost. Meanwhile the "transitional
costs" charged by the liquidating committee enabled a significant part of the compensation due to
workers to be paid.
15.   It was also possible to:
- construct a storage depot for petrolleum products
- set up a fuel distribution network for the principal urban centers
- prepare and authorize a new price structure, negotiated with the operators.
16.   The shortcomings in the electricity component can be attributed to the following factors,
among others:
(a) non-performance of the planned electricity production investment program.
(b) allocation of the funds originally earmarked for improving the distribution network to
small-scale actions at the Bissau electric power plant.
(c) poor performance of the management team in the areas of client management and
reduction of non-technical losses.
17.   Operational phase of the project. Project activities having been completed, we believe that
the investments and reforms implemented will[ be ensured by the structures established and supported
both with government resources and/or by new projects being negotiated with development financing
institutions.
18.   Thus in the institutional area, the continuity of the process will be guaranteed through the
general budget, which will allocate sufficient funds, via the Secretariat of State for Energy, to cover
the operations of the planning and monitoring units and the regulation of fuel prices. An annual
budget of CFAF 3.5 million should ensure the effective functioning of the planning unit, these funds
being allocated to office supplies, photocopying, communications, equipment maintenance and travel.



26
19.   The costs of the regulatory unit will be partly met by the subsector, from charges for
preventive inspections. Current expenses, estimated at CFAF 2.8 million a year, will be covered by
the state budget.
20.   Further changes in the electricity subsector will help to sustain and intensify the progress
made; the reforms implemented have led to the establishment of an entity responsible for asset
management and development in the electricity and water sector, and will also enable a leasing
contract to be signed with a private company for management of production resources and the
distribution of electricity and water in Bissau.
21.   Project lessons.  Although the final phase of project execution was satisfactory, the
experience gained should be exploited so as to avoid the same problems in future. Since an
exhaustive list of issues seems unnecessary, we will mention only the following:
*     Projects should be prepared, organized and approved in line with the country's real
needs
*     The World Bank should appoint interlocutors with a minimal understanding of
African development needs in general and those of the countries in question in
particular, so as to facilitate dialogue and mutual understanding
*     the negotiation phase should be sufficient to enable the credit effectiveness
conditions to be discussed in a realistic way
*     procedures for the exchange of correspondence should be improved, mainly as
regards disbursement requests
*     the appropriate conditions must be created for giving the government better
information concerning the various problems and/or changes arising in the course of
project execution.
Bissau, January 1998.



27
APPENDIx 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
ENERGY PROJECT (Cr. 2237-GUB)
LAST MIssioNq's AIDE-MEMOIRE
(September 29' - October 11, 1997)
1.    An IDA mission comprising Mr. Philippe Durand (Project Manager) and Mr. Abderrahmane
Megateli (Consultant) visited Guinea-Bissau from September 29 to October I1, 1997. This was to be
the final supervision mission for the above project, and its members were also to begin preparing the
Implementation Completion Report. The mission coincided with a visit by Mr. Leslie Pean (relating
to the upcoming Water and Energy Project), and, before leaving, its members delivered the present
aide-memoire (summarizing their observations and conclusions), an outline of which was discussed
in a wrap-up meeting chaired by His Excellency, the Secretary of State for Energy.
2.    In addition, the mission explained to the representatives of the Directorate General of EAGB
and thLe energy authorities the World Bank's internal operational procedures for preparing the
Implementation Completion Report, and reviewed all those aspects that should be analyzed in the
Government's section of the Report. The latter should be forwarded to the Bank by January 5, 1998.
3.    The mission wishes to express its most sincere thanks to His Excellency Carlos de Pinho
Brandlo, Secretary of State for Energy, to the Directorate General of Energy of EAGB, to the
Commission responsible for the liquidation of DICOL and Guin&Gas, and to all the other persons
contacted (see list in Annex 1) for their warm welcome and unstinting cooperation. The mission
offers its heartfelt congratulations to the team from EAGB and the Office of the Secretary of State for
Energy for all the efforts they devoted to project implementation.
4.    This aide-memoire summarizes the mission's main conclusions, examining the following
points:
(a)   financial support for the energy sector;
(b)    objectives and main components of the project;
(c)    achievement of objectives;
(d)    project implementation;
(e)    major factors affecting the project;
(f)    economic evaluation;
(g)   the plan for future operations;
(h)    project sustainability and potential risks;
(i)    key lessons learned.
Financial Support for the Energy Sector
5.    IDA Credit 2237-GUB was approved on July 5, 1991. The amount was SDR 11.3 million,
and the Credit became effective on April 17, 1992, about eight months after the Agreements were
signed. The project was reconfigured because almost immediately problems arose in the petroleum
component (which was never implemented), and the Credit amount was reduced to SDR 9.43 million.
An amendment to this effect was signed on Jluly 13, 1995, and became effective on March 3, 1996
(once again, about eight months after signature). By end-September 1997, 92% of the amended



28
Credit had been disbursed, and it will be closed -- as planned -- on December 31, 1997, the expected
disbursement level being 97%. It should be recalled that EAGB and DGE (the Directorate General
for Energy) have until the end of April 1997 to forward to IDA all payment claims for services
provided up to December 31, 1997. If EAGB and DGE so wish, an exception will be made to permit
use of the Credit to finance the cost of auditing the project accounts and EAGB's financial statements
for FY97, provided that the necessary contract is signed with the auditor by December 31, 1997 and
the audit is performed by June 30, 1998.
6.    Various donors and multilateral institutions have joined the Bank in strengthening EAGB
over the last five years. Thus, additional power generation capacity (1.5 MW) and spare parts for the
Bissau plant were financed by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), a 4 MW plant in Bissau
(yet to be completed) was financed by the Former Soviet Union, a three-year management contract
(Regie Interessee contract) with EAGB was financed by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC),
rehabilitation of sections of the water supply pumping and diistribution system was financed by the
Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD), rehabilitation and extension of the electric power and
water distribution systems was financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB), and extension of
the Bissau power plant (3 MW) was financed by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(ABEDA). It should be noted that the ABEDA project has not yet been implemented, even though
the agreement with the contractor was signed more than four years ago.
7.    Initially, the Energy Project originally provided for cofinancing from the European Union
(EU) and the European Investment Bank (EIB), in amounts of US$2 million and US$6 million
respectively (equivalent to a total of ECU 7 million). The EIB project (for a 3,5 MW installation in
Bissau) was officially canceled in December 1995. The UE contribution that was planned at
appraisal (to support the petroleum component) did not come to fruition.
Objectives and Main Components of the Project
8.    The main objective -- which remained unchanged after the project was restructured -- was to
improve (over the medium term) the efficiency of petroleum-product and electric-power supply,
production, and distribution. To achieve this, the project had the following, more specific, aims:
(a)   to increase the safety and efficiency of the petroleum-product distribution system,
reducing the cost of the products supplied, especially in agricultural areas and fishing
centers;
(b)   to increase the efficiency of the petroleum-product supply system;
(c)   to promote medium-term  improvements in the electric power generation and
distribution systems;
(d)   to consolidate institutional and management capacity in EAGB, DICOL, and MEIRN
(the Ministry of Energy, Industry, and Natural Resources).
9.    After the midterm review in April 1994, and in light of the Government's call for the
elimination of the component relating to the rehabilitation of petroleum-product storage and
distribution facilities (because of the decision to liquidate DICOL and Guin&Gas), the project was
restructured so as to focus on the strengthening of EAGB and to support the liquidation of DICOL.
Consequently, the restructured project was entirely consistent with its original development objective,
and also with the Government's strategy for developing the electric-power and petroleum subsectors,
and thus it could both provide support for the privatization of the petroleum subsector and prepare the
transition toward a situation in which the private sector would play a more prominent role in the
power subsector.



29
10.    As a result of the restructuring, total project cost became US$21.1 million instead of the
original US$23.2 million. The following table summarizes the costs by component, before and after
restructuring.
Planned Project Cost and Actual Expenditures
(in millions of US$)
A. MEIRN: institutional                          1.2 (1.2)                    2.4 (2.4)
strengthening
* Equipment and supplies                                                      1.5 (1.5)
* Consultants                                                                 0.9 (0.9)
B. DICOL                                         8.8 (6.8)                          0
C. EAGB                                          9.2 (3.2)                   15.4 (7.8)
* Equipment and supplies                                                     11.3 (5.3)
* Consultants                                                                 4.1 (2.5)
D. Petroleum Fund                                4.0 (4.0)                    3.0 (3.0)
TOTAL                                23.2 (15.2)                  21.1 (13.2)
N.B.: IDA financing shown in parentheses.
11.   As a result, the restructured project consists of only three components, instead of four. The
first (institutional strengthening of MEIRN and restructuring of the energy sector) was extended to
include technical assistance for the liquidation of DICOL and Guine-Gas and sale of their assets, and
emergency rehabilitation of DICOL's storage installations. The following subcomponents were
introduced into the second component (support for EAGB): (i) establishment of a two-year
management contract; (ii) rehabilitation and extension of the Bissau plant; (iii) procurement of spare
parts and equipment for the operation and maintenance of the Bissau plant; (iv) various studies for
the rehabilitation and extension of the Bissau and provincial plants. The subcomponent relating to
extension of the Bissau power distribution system was eliminated (because of the large shortfall in
generating capacity that was expected to affect Bissau up to 1996/97), as was the component for
increasing power generation and distribution in the city of Canchungo (so as to reduce the dispersion
of project components and focus efforts in the power component on the rehabilitation of EAGB).
Nevertheless, the AfBD's Scorpion project for rehabilitating and extending the Bissau distribution
networks (which had been prevented from starting up because of arrears) began to be implemented in
1997. It is anticipated that the works will be complete by the beginning of the second half of 1998. It
should be noted that, although the distribution technology used is expensive, it will considerably
reduce the risks of illegal tapping. Finally, the third component (the Petroleum Fund) was not
changed, but the amount was reduced and its use restricted to the duration of DICOL's liquidation,
the purpose being to avoid the risk of any interruption in the supply of petroleum products.
Achievement of Objectives
12.   As indicated in Annex 2 (in the point relating to the project's performance indicators), the
development objectives for the petroleum sector -- as specified in the revised project -- were
achieved. The privatization of DICOL and Guin&-GAs and the liberalization of the sector (which
were completed in 1997) will make it possible to reduce the cost of supplying petroleum products and
to improve their distribution in Bissau and secondary urban centers. In the electric-power subsector,
however, the management contract did not make it possible to completely rehabilitate EAGB's
financial position. Although this improved in 1997, it remains difficult, with the operating income for
1997 expected to be negative. EAGB's business and technical position has slightly improved over
the situation at the beginning of the project, and suitable management, financial, and accounting



30
procedures have been introduced. In addition to the problems resulting from the insufficient
autonomy and incentives provided by the management contracts designed to bring about rapid
improvements in the business performance of enterprises such as EAGB, the cancellation or
suspension of several projects for increasing generating capacity in Bissau caused a large shortfall in
capacity, with negative repercussions for service quality and -- consequently -- for consumer
behavior and the enterprise's business performance. It is important that this problem of generation
capacity (and reserves) be properly and urgently addressed in the new Water and Energy Project.
13.   At the time of the midterm review (1994), it was agreed that a private operator should be
appointed to cooperate with EAGB. This will not be done before the Credit is closed (as had been
planned), but the process is well under way. Two candidates have been selected, and will participate
in the bidding procedure scheduled to take place before end-November 1997. It is planned to
establish a holding company to provide the successful candidate with all EAGB's assets, in.
accordance with a 15-year lease contract (contrat d'affermage) that will place considerable
responsibilities on the operator in terms of capital investment (similar to the conditions usually
included in a concession contract). Signature of the contract is scheduled for July 1998.
14.   Although regulations for the two subsectors have not yet been issued, the draft Electricity
Law and the concession contract for EAGB have been finalized, and a decree regulating the
distribution of petroleum products was signed in 1996. The latter needs to be supplemented by a
series of decrees, and these are currently being prepared.
15.   Finally, the objective of consolidating institutional catpacity in DGE was achieved. DGE's
Technical Unit for energy sector monitoring, coordination, and policy is operating well and fulfilling
its tasks. In particular, in 1997 it prepared the Letter of Sector Policy, which specifies the approach
adopted by the Government for continuing the reforms in the energy sector, especially in view of the
new Water and Energy Project. In addition, a new Regulatory Unit is being established for the
petroleum sector. Finally, SEE (the Secretariat of State for Energy) is planning to cease operating the
secondary-level power generating plants for which it is currently responsible, and these will be taken
over by the future concessionaire (examples being Bafata and Gabu), or by local private operators
(i.e. in the case of small plants).
Project Implementation
16.   In spite of the delays resulting from problems such as the management contract, the contract
for providing support for the liquidation of DICOL, and the procurement of petroleum products,
implementation of the physical and institutional components can be considered satisfactory. The
works and services procured were delivered on schedule and under budget, with the exception of the
support contract for the privatization of DICOL and Guin&Gas, which required two amendments and
an additional six months.
The MEIRN Component
17.   Technical assistance for DGE's Technical Unit served to strengthen the capacity of its five
supervisors and its support staff. It provided special training, together with assistance in the planning
and evaluation of various stages of the tasks largely carried oul: by the members of the Unit. Surveys
of the power, petroleum, household energy , and renewable energy subsectors made it possible to
establish a reliable database (which will be periodically updated in cooperation with operators in the
sector), and to prepare a wrap-up report on problems and options in the energy sector. In addition, a
draft Electricity Law was prepared to support preparation of the Water and Energy Project.



31
18.   The project provided equipment and training support for improving management and
operations in those outlying towns for which DGE is currently responsible.
19.   The emergency rehabilitation work on DICOL's storage installations (i.e. the facilities at
Bandim) was concerned with pumping, metering, fire safety, etc., the purpose being to keep these
systems serviceable for the period during which DICOL was being liquidated, and during which the
Government was importing petroleum products in order to avoid any interruption in the country's
suppiies.
20.   The Government arranged for 8,000 tons of gasoil to be imported, using the Petroleum Fund
and applying a bidding procedure. This provided a very reasonable margin for the importer, over and
above the FOB Mediterranean price. The imported oil was sold ex-storage to distributors at a price
that included a transfer fee that enabled the Liquidation Commission to finance a portion of the
severance payments paid to employees of ]DICOL and Guine-Gas. The taxes applicable to the
products purchased were paid when the distrilbutors collected them. The audit of the Petroleum Fund
showed that its management had been satisfactory. It will be closed by December 31, 1997, and any
remaining balance will be paid into the Treasury.
21.   The sale of the assets belonging to D][COL and Guine-Gas was concluded by their transfer to
purchasers on October 2, 1997. The proceeds of the sale totaled US$2.5 million. The activities
relating to these assets are expected to resume, on November 2, 1997. The transfer fee for products at
the Bandim facility (determined under the bidding procedure) is CFAF 10.3 per liter. The financial
liquidation of DICOL and Guine-Gas will be completed by December 31, 1997, and the Liquidation
Comimission will be dissolved. Any claims fDr debts that are owed to DICOL or Guin&Gas and that
the Liquidation Commission has been unable to recover will be transferred to the Ministry of
Finance's Recovery Unit.
The EAGB Component
22.   The following are the physical components implemented by EAGB:
(a)    emergency rehabilitation and extension of the Bissau plant, including two diesel sets
(1.5 MW each; these have been in operation since April 1997), a compressed-air
power station, fire safety equipment (38 extinguishers and a water circuit), an oil and
waste recovery and settling system, and a used-oil incinerator;
(b)   repair of several inoperative grenerating sets (i.e. G3, G5, and G7);
(c)    procurement of spare parts for the scheduled maintenance of a number of sets;
(d)   technical assistance for the operation of the Bissau plant and for staff training (i.e. a
diesel specialist for a period of three years).
Both quantitatively and qualitative)y, the above activities boosted power generation in
Bissau. Gross power generation increased by 39% over the first half of 1996. The 1997
maintenance plan was fully financed and properly implemented.
(e)    Procurement and installation of electricity meters and capacitors: 2,800 conventional
meters for the household sector (installed at a slower rate than originally planned,
because the rehabilitation of existing connections necessitated extensive works), and
capacitors that made it possible to reduce reactive power for public-sector
consumers; it was planned to procure 100 prepayment meters for the public sector (to
increase the recovery rate from public-sector customers), but this measure could not
be implemented before closure of the Credit.



32
(f)    Considerable efforts were devoted to providing training for managers, supervisors,
and nonmanagement staff in most of the enterprise's spheres of activity, on the basis
of a master plan for training for the 1997-99 period. The plan was finalized in 1996,
and implementation of priority activities for 1997/98 has been totally financed from
the project.
(g)    Census of consumers, and updating of the customer information files (completed in
December 1996);
(h)    survey of fixed assets and inventories, with the necessary adjustments to accounts;
(i)   improvements in administrative, financial, and accounting procedures (technical
assistance and computer hardware); computerization of accounting and client
management, and transition to the CFAF.
The latter three activities enabled the auditor to certify EAGB s accounts for FY96 with only
afew reservations, even though auditors had refused to certify its accounts since 1990.
(j)    Implementation of a management contract covering a period of two years (from
September 1996 to July 1997), entered into with a group selected by means of a
bidding procedure, following up a similar contract financed from 1993 by the French
Cooperation Agency.
This support did not achieve the hoped-for improvements in EAGB's financial management
(see Annex for Table of Performance Indicators), even though the levels of performance
specified in the contract were achieved.
(k)    Various engineering studies and services, particularly for the preparation of bidding
documents, the supervision of works in the various project components, the
feasibility study for completion of the Nova Central (the conclusion was negative),
and the preparatory studies and summary draft for the energy component of the new
Water and Energy Project.
23.   In March 1996, because of the deterioration in 1995/96 in the financial position of EAGB,
which was far from achieving the levels of financial indicators specified in the Project Agreement,
EAGB's Board (which had increased its capacity and was operating very satisfactorily) drew up an
action plan for the enterprise's economic recovery. This was updated in March 1997, and called for
revision of electricity and water tariffs (implemented in November 1996), recapitalization of EAGB
(US$ 1 million in May 1996 and US$400,000 between March and June 1997), payment of public-
sector customers' debts, with -- subsequently -- regular payment of their bills, reductions in suppliers'
debts, recovery of arrears owed by private cus-tomers, etc. Delays in the application of certain aspects
of the plan, and slower-than-expected improvements in EAGB's business performance, led to a large
operating deficit in 1996, although only a small deficit is expected in 1997 (CFAF 160 million; i.e.
2% of turnover).
Final Commitments on the Credit
24.   The table in Annex 5 shows commitments under the Credit, final reallocations among
categories, and planned commitments (to be entered into by December 31, 1997), including the
following. (This is an exhaustive list, but it is subject to final[ proposals from EAGB and SEE.)
(a)    A diesel set for the city of Canchungo: a shopping procedure is to be used, calling
upon between three and five suppliers with reputations in at least three countries to
provide quotations for the following two optiions: either a turnkey contract (however,



33
would this mean that the facilities could not be brought on stream until after the
closure date?), or simply the supply of equipment; in this latter case, satisfactory
provision would have to be made for the set to be properly installed and brought into
operation; in both cases, detailed proposals will be necessary in order to secure the
Bank's "no objection" for lhe plant's management and operation, which should
mainly be the responsibility of local operators (although the private concessionaire
may subsequently have a role to play); it should be noted that the initial
results/lessons learned from the new system of management at the Canchungo plant
could be applied to the upcoming Water and Energy Project (i.e. in the component
concerned with inland towns);
(b)    equipment for the DGE Technical Unit and the SEE Regulatory Unit for the
Petroleum Sector;
(c)    additional training for DGE (iie. for specialists from inland towns);
(d)    additional support for the regulation and supervision of activities in the petroleum
subsector (amendment to the PW/PELNA contract);
(e)   spare parts and fans for the B issau plant, and distribution cables (EAGB);
(f)    additional training for EAGB;
(g)    audits of project and EAGB accounts (for FY97);
(h)    vehicles for EAGB's operations.
Actions to be Taken before Closure
25.   The actions to be taken are as follows:
(a)   issue the contracts referred to in (24) above;
(b)   forward the price structure for each of the petroleum products;
(c)    prepare document defining the objectives, functions, organization, activities, budget,
and implementation schedule of the Regulatory and Supervisory Unit for the
petroleum subsector;
(d)    prepare document defining - for 1998 -- the'activities, products, and budget of the
DGE Technical Unit;
(e)    submit EAGB statements of expenditute, justifying the amount of the Special
Account advance not yet repaid to the World Bank (about US$20,000).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   The following were the main factors:
(a)   the failure of financing to be provided for expanding the Bissau plant, leading to a
considerable shortfall in generating capacity and to load shedding; these had an
impact on EAGB's business performance and the up duration of the generating sets
(because of overuse and breaLdowns);
(b)    delays in the preparation of the management contract, resulting in a deterioration in
EAGB's financial and business position and a lessening of the impact expected from
the application of the quantitative performance criteria (which had, moreover,
become easier to satisfy);
(c)    a lack of coordination among the supervisory authorities in the sector, and with
respect to certain responsibilities for technical supervision that had not been clearly
determined; this caused considerable delays in policy decisions relating to project
implementation and the reform of the energy sector;



34
(d)    delays in projects for strengthening/developing water and electricity systems
(affecting EAGB's business performance, because technical losses remained high);
(e)   the lack of autonomy and incentives granted under any of the types of management
contract, this being -- nevertheless -- the method adopted for dealing with the
transitional period preceding the award of a concession (because it was the least
expensive option for the sector);
(f)   the legal, financial, and institutional complexities affecting the positions of DICOL,
Guine-Gas, and the petroleum subsector.
Economic Evaluation
27.    As indicated above, actual capital investment under the project was different from that
planned during negotiations, and so it will be impossible to ascertain whether the economic rate of
return calculated at appraisal was realistic. The rate of return on the investments actually made will
be calculated as follows: (i) in the case of the rehabilitation and extension of the Bissau plant, the
fact that these units now make it possible to eliminate load shedding in the city will be factored into
the cost of the additional power generated; (ii) this same point will by taken into account when
calculating the rate of return resulting from the financing of repairs to a number of generating units in
the Bissau plant; (iii) as regards the liquidation of DICOL and Guine-Gas, the transaction costs
(relating to the Liquidation Commission and technical assistance), the financing for rehabilitation of
the Bandim storage facilities, and the costs of regulating the sector will be compared with the
estimated reduction in the cost of petroleum-product supply resulting from privatization of the sector.
The improvements in the distribution of petroleum products brought about by privatization will also
be assessed.
The Plan for Future Operations
28.    A detailed operating plan will be included in the project evaluation report currently being
prepared by the Government and EAGB. The private operator taking over EAGB's activities in July
1998 will properly operate and maintain the equipment finatnced by the project in the Bissau plant.
For the transitional period (i.e. until the operator is hired), a complete range of technical assistance
has been provided for EAGB (covering also operation of the Bissau plant). As regards the
institutional component of the project, DGE's Technical Unit will continue to operate with the human
and financial resources necessary for its functions, so that it can monitor and coordinate the sector
(through a quarterly bulletin, periodic surveys, links with operators in the sector, etc.). The
Regulatory Unit for the petroleum sector will monitor operations in the sector (ensuring free access to
the Bandim facility, competition among distributors, observance of technical and environmental
standards, adjustments to the structure of ceiling prices, etc.). The Unit will be established by end-
1997, and will receive technical assistance (training and ad hoc support) as part of the institutional
strengthening component of the new Water and Energy Project.
Project Sustainability and Potential Risks
29.    The Government's Letter of Sector Policy on Energy presents the approaches and objectives
adopted for the reforms the Government has launched in the energy sector with project support.
These reforms should ensure the sustainability of the results of the project, provided that they are
properly applied. In the case of the petroleum sector, the sustainability of the project's outcome will
depend in particular on the following factors: (i) the political will of the Government to maintain an
open environment of competition for operators in the subsector, with or without a minimum of State
participation; (ii) the finalization and prompt introduction of the regulatory framework for stimulating
and consolidating private investment while protecting the public interest; (iii) proper application of



35
the system of ceiling prices, with automatic adjustments for movements in international prices; (iv)
respect for the investment commitments of the private economic partners taking over all the functions
and facilities of DICOL and Guin6-Gas.
30.   In the electric-power subsector, sustainability of the project's outcome will depend on the
following factors: (i) effective reform of the subsector, as planned; in particular, the application of a
concession contract (contrat d'affermage concessionnel), and the success of this mechanism in
increasing EAGB's efficiency; (ii) a rapid increase in power generation capacity in Bissau; (iii)
appropriate adjustments to electric-power and water tariffs; (iv) actual commitment of investments by
the private operator, to finance generation, distribution, maintenance, and training; (v) regular
payrment of bills by private-sector customers. The Water and Energy Project now being discussed by
the Government and IDA will make it possible to improve and consolidate the subsector's situation,
and its growth. Finally, the Government should continue its efforts to consolidate SEE and the
system for regulating the energy sector.
31.   The main risk threatening the energy sector relates to the electric-power subsector. If the
planned reform entailing establishment of a public-sector holding company and issuance of a
concession contract and a suitable regulatory framework does not attract the investment necessary for
growth and consolidation in the subsector, and does not provide a sufficient rate of return for the
private operator, the power sector will be jeopardized, and this will have a definite impact on the
country's economic growth. However, the measures adopted by the Government as part of this
project and those planned under the new Water and Energy Project, together with continued support
for these sectors from the World Bank, should make it possible to establish a favorable environment
for attracting the private sector and ensuring the rehabilitation of the generation facilities, the
distribution installations, and the sector's financial position.
Key Lessons Learned
The following are some of the lessons learned from the project:
(a)    Sound coordination among donors is necessary, so that the various funding
allocations planned at appraisal can be effectively mobilized.
(b)    Reform of the energy sector is a process requiring consensus among a large number
of actors, and lasting for a period that is usually underestimated.  Suitable
mechanisms have to be established to provide for consultation among sector partners.
(c)    Short-term technical assistance seems to be as effective as long-term assistance, and
is less expensive. It is also more likely to ensure that knowledge is transferred and
that the forms of organization or activities it supports will be more sustainable.
(d)    Establishment of an autonomous and financially motivated project management unit
is not a precondition for the satisfactory implementation of a project by a government
agency.
(e)    Management contracts for public electricity or water enterprises do not seem to
provide sufficient incentives or autonomy (and do not guarantee that the sector will
be provided with enough resources) to sustainably improve the financial position and
development prospects of power enterprises like EAGB in countries with economic
and political conditions like those in Guinea-Bissau.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22885
/  S  E  N  E  G  A  L                                                             C
|    A    T    L    A   N   t   t   C   0   "aa   -''  t\,  ,,  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITENA IALEONARE
ASSANIlT    ONE     COTE                X        BOLAM                              _                      k                    GUINEA-BISSAU
t00   0   LUTEI  L>e  EGUdA  1.  .......  z ff z t ..... L&dlf < < )/^ PROVNCIAL OWERSYSTEMS PORTOINERNACIONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RONTIRALINTENATINAL
OCEAN   dL  OLLaTIV CO     1 I6 RERwbawfi    <g?/s~g^         Tbmb ll   u            )   GuilejeZ  /  _    EXIST NGDLSETCRT18RLCCAO ELECTR/CO EXISTENTES  PORTOS INTER ORES
t:;: i   t  1                                                                                       MLES               6              RIEMGToEs ENTRE REG OES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IId6 
A    T A L A N T I C                                                                 u                                                        W IE h ; D I C I EF( DTEA 7 E S X A E N C O A
OC       A 9CEAN                                                                                                                                     lid6   {
BOLAMA :QFEBRUARY



