Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                         (Energy Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               ELECTRICIDADE E AGUAS DA GUINE-BISSAU
                       Dated August 21, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ELECTRICIDADE E AGUAS
DA GUINE-BISSAU (EAGB).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EAGB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EAGB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent to EAGB on
the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan agreement
(the Subsidiary Loan Agreement); and
Page  2
      WHEREAS EAGB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) EAGB declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part
C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Part C of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and EAGB shall
otherwise agree, EAGB shall carry out Part C of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. EAGB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part C of the Project.
      Section 2.04. EAGB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, EAGB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) EAGB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   EAGB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EAGB of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EAGB
      Section 3.01. EAGB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
Page  3
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. (a) EAGB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
      (b)   Subject to paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
EAGB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 3.03. EAGB shall acquire from the Borrower for fair
consideration, not later than December 31, 1992, all its rights
relating to the 4.2 MW Nova Central Electrica generating station
currently under construction (including all rights under the related
construction and installation contracts).
      Section 3.04.  EAGB shall: (a) pay in full over a five-year
period existing arrears owed to DICOL in equal semiannual payments
beginning end 1991, (b) pay interest accruing beginning January 1,
1992 on all outstanding arrears referred to in (a) above at the rate
of 15% per annum, and (c) pay all bills to DICOL within 30 days of
receipt of such bills.
      Section 3.05.  EAGB shall adopt, not later than December 31,
1991, a three-year rolling investment program for the period 1992-
1994 acceptable to the Association, and shall implement such plan,
as modified with the consent of the Association, provided that the
consent of the Association shall not be required for any investments
in addition to those set forth in such plan aggregating less than
$250,000 in any EAGB fiscal year.
      Section 3.06.  EAGB shall: (a) modify not later than
December 31, 1991 its tariff indexation formula in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, (b) annually review such formula
with the Associaton, and (c) only further amend such formula with
the agreement of the Association. Prior to such modification in
1991, EAGB shall only increase its tariffs from their March 1, 1991
levels if, and only to the extent that, the domestic price of
petroleum increases.
      Section 3.07. EAGB shall: (a) implement, not later than
December 31, 1991, a metering and billing plan acceptable to the
Association, including the installation by such date of meters for
all customers, (b) implement a loss-reduction program acceptable to
the Association designed to reduce overall system losses to 30% not
later than December 31, 1992, and 27% not later than December 31,
1993, and (c) reduce average arrears from private customers to 90
days not later than December 31, 1991, and 80 days not later than
December 31, 1993.
      Section 3.08. EAGB shall implement the EAGB Financing Plan in
a timely manner.
      Section 3.09. EAGB shall, no earlier than January 1, 1993 and
no later than March 31, 1993, carry out jointly with the Association
a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out Part C of the
Project, including a review of EAGB's requirements for management
consultant assistance.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) EAGB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
Page  4
      (b)   EAGB shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, EAGB shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account for purposes of Part C
                   or payment out of the EAGB Special Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                   such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditures submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EAGB shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991, an annual return of not
less than 10% of the average current net value of EAGB's fixed
assets in operation.
      (b)   Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, EAGB shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by EAGB and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that EAGB would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EAGB's fiscal years
Page  5
covered by such review, EAGB shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The annual return shall be calculated by
                   dividing EAGB's net operating income for the
                   fiscal year in question by one half of the sum
                   of the current net value of EAGB's fixed assets
                   in operation at the beginning and at the end of
                   that fiscal year.
            (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                   operating revenues less total operating
                   expenses.
            (iii)  The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.
            (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes (other than taxes on
                   revenue), and provision for depreciation on a
                   straight-line basis at a rate of not less than
                   6% per annum of the average current gross value
                   of EAGB's fixed assets in operation, or other
                   basis acceptable to the Association, but
                   excluding interest and other charges on debt.
            (v)    The average current gross value of EAGB's fixed
                   assets in operation shall be calculated as one
                   half of the sum of the gross value of EAGB's
                   fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
                   at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
                   time to time in accordance with sound and
                   consistently maintained methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Association.
            (vi)   The term "current net value of EAGB's fixed
                   assets in operation" means the gross value of
                   EAGB's fixed assets in operation less the amount
                   of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
                   to time in accordance with sound and
                   consistently maintained methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EAGB shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of EAGB shows that the estimated net
revenues of EAGB for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least one and a half (1-1/2) times the
estimated debt service requirements of EAGB in such year on all debt
of EAGB including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EAGB
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
Page  6
            (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.
            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes (other than taxes on
                         revenue), incurred in the generation of
                         revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by EAGB not earlier than twelve months
                   prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                   which both the Association and EAGB accept as
                   reasonable and as to which the Association has
                   notified EAGB of its acceptability, provided
                   that no event has occurred since such
                   notification which has, or may reasonably be
                   expected in the future to have, a material
                   adverse effect on the financial condition or
                   future operating results of EAGB.
            (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Association.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EAGB shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence of such
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EAGB
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
Page  7
            (iii)  The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of EAGB not allocated to cover
                   specific liabilities.
            (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EAGB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
            (ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify EAGB of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
Page  8
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For EAGB:
            Electricidade e Aguas da Guine-Bissau, E.P.
            Rua Eduardo Mondlane, 14 - Bissau
            1021 Bissau Codex
            Guine-Bissau
                                     Telex:
                                        223
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EAGB, or by EAGB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Director General of EAGB or such other person or persons as the
Director General of EAGB shall designate in writing, and EAGB shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   ELECTRICIDADE E AGUAS DA GUINE-BISSAU
                   By /s/ Alfredo L. Cabral
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods or works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  9
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $340,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the EAGB
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the EAGB Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the EAGB Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist EAGB in carrying out Part C of the Project,
EAGB shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    EAGB's project implementation and control team, established in
accordance with paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, shall monitor implementation of Part C of the
Project, and shall be responsible for training EAGB's staff.
2.    In carrying out Part C.4 of the Project, EAGB shall implement,
not later than June 30, 1992, an accounting and financial management
system acceptable to the Association, including adoption of a
methodology, and the related procedures, for revaluing EAGB's fixed
assets on a yearly basis.
3.    In connection with training of EAGB's staff under Part C.4 of
Page  10
the Project, EAGB shall prepare not later than December 31, 1991 a
timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for the replacement of
expatriate staff with local staff, and shall implement such
timetable in a timely manner.
4.    EAGB shall cooperate with MNRI regarding the preparation, due
not later than June 30, 1992, of the least-cost expansion study for
electric power generating capacity for the period 1995-2000.
5.    EAGB shall acquire all appropriate insurance coverage not
later than December 31, 1991.
6.    EAGB shall implement, not later than June 30, 1992, an
accounting and management information system acceptable to the
Association.
7.    EAGB shall, not later than December 31, 1991, enter into an
on-lending agreement with Banco Central da Guine-Bissau, on
reasonable terms, relating to Unit No. 7 2.2 MW generator so as to
permit its concurrent acquisition of such unit.
8.    EAGB shall act as purchasing agent and otherwise assist the
Borrower in acquiring and installing the transformers and meters
provided for under Part A.4 of the Project.
