Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                      Agreement Providing for Amendment
                             and Restatement of
                        Development Credit Agreement
                              (Energy Project)
                                   between
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated July 13, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA-BISSAU (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to
amend the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and
the Association dated August 21, 1991, as amended on May
13,1992, (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement)
in the manner hereinafter set forth; and
      WHEREAS the Association and Electricidade E Aguas de
Guine-Bissau (hereinafter called EAGB) have also agreed to
amend the Project Agreement between the Association and EAGB
dated August 21, 1991, as amended on May 25, 1995 (hereinafter
called the Project Agreement) in the manner set forth in the
Amended Project Agreement of even date herewith;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE 1
      Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby
amended and restated in its entirety so as to read as set forth
Page  2
in the Annex hereto.
      Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon
receipt by the Association of evidence satisfactory to the
Association that:
      (a)   the execution and delivery of this Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Amended and Restated Project
Agreement on behalf of EAGB have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate actions;
      (b)   the Borrower and all its entities and agencies have
settled their electricity and water bills falling due to EAGB
as of December 31, 1994;
      (c)   the decision to liquidate DICOL shall have been
published in the Bulletin Official and the Liquidation
Commission shall have been appointed; and
      (d)   the amendment to the EAGB Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and EAGB, and
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental or
corporate actions.
      Section 1.03. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing:
      (a)   on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has
been duly authorized and ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
      (b)   on behalf of EAGB that the Agreement Providing for
Amendment and Restatement of Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of EAGB and is legally binding upon EAGB in accordance with its
terms; and
      (c)   on behalf of the Borrower and EAGB, that the
amendment to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized and executed by the Borrower and EAGB, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and EAGB in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 1.04. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence and
notification required by Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
      Section 1.05. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by October 11, 1995, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of
this Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement
shall be cancelled.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Page  3
                           By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           By /s/ Alfredo Copes Cabral
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                                                      ANNEX
                                                  To Agreement providing
                                                      for Amendment and
                                                 Restatement of Development
                                                   Credit Agreement dated
                                                        August 21, 1991
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                            AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                              (Energy Project)
                                   between
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated August 21, 1991
                  As amended and restated on July 13, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2237 GUB
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 1991, as amended and restated
on July 13, 1995 between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B) the Borrower intends to contract from European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan in an amount equivalent to
$7,000,000 to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and EIB;
      (C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by
Electricidade e Aguas da Guine-Bissau (EAGB) with the
Page  4
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to EAGB the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and EAGB, respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "DGEI" means the Direccio-Geral de Energia e
Industria within MNRI;
      (b)   "DICOL" means Distribuidora de Combustiveis e
Lubrificantes, a corporation organized under the laws of the
Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 41-77, dated December 31, 1977;
      (c)   "EAGB" means Electricidade e Aguas da Guine-Bissau,
a corporation established under the laws of the Borrower;
      (d)   "EAGB Financial Restructuring Plan" means the
restructuring plan adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section
3.08 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "EAGB Contrat-Programme" means the performance
contract dated June 22, 1992 entered into by the Borrower and
EAGB setting forth performance goals for EAGB, and all
subsequent related agreements between such parties;
      (f)   "EAGB Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and EAGB, of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to such agreement;
      (g)   "EAGB Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "EAGB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and EAGB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the
EAGB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (i)   "Liquidation Commission" means the commission
appointed by Decree  of the Borrower to supervise the
liquidation of DICOL;
      (j)   "MNRI" means Ministerio de Energia, Industria e
Recursos Naturais; the ministry of the Borrower responsible for
energy, industry and natural resources;
      (k)   "Petroleum Facility" means the petroleum facility to
be established pursuant to Part C of the Project, and to be
operated as described in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this
Page  5
Agreement;
      (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 15, 1990 and
June 21, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (m)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the EAGB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
      (n)   "Guine-Gas" means a corporation established under the
laws of the Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million four hundred thirty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,430,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in the name of EAGB a special
deposit account (the EAGB Special Account) in Dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
EAGB Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
Page  6
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing May 15, 2001 and ending November 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. EAGB is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions in respect of Part B of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end:
            (i)     shall carry out, through MNRI, Parts A and C
Page  7
                    of the Project with due diligence and
                    efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                    administrative and financial practices and
                    shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                    facilities, services and other resources
                    required for such Part of the Project; and
            (ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of
                    its other obligations under the Development
                    Credit Agreement, the Borrower: (A) shall
                    cause EAGB to perform all its respective
                    obligations set forth in the EAGB Project
                    Agreement, (B) shall take or cause to be taken
                    all action, including the provision of funds,
                    facilities, services and other resources,
                    necessary or appropriate to enable EAGB to
                    perform such obligations, and (C) shall not
                    take or permit to be taken any action which
                    would prevent or interfere with such
                    performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Association and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
Parts A and C of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
necessary to carry out Part B of the Project to EAGB under a
subsidiary loan agreement (the EAGB Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
between the Borrower and EAGB, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, which shall
provide, inter alia, that the proceeds of the Credit shall be
relented at an interest rate of 7.7% per annum, for a term of
twenty years, including a five-year grace period, with the
exchange risk between the currency of payment and the currency
of repayment to be borne by EAGB.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the EAGB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the EAGB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June
30, 1995, furnish to the Association a plan, satisfactory to
the Association, describing the actions and measures required
to ensure the utilization of the electro-mechanical equipment
of the Nova Central electric power plant; and (b) thereafter,
proceed to implement such plan in accordance with the time
table and other modalities specified therein.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) modify, in
consultation with EAGB, EAGB's tariff indexation formula not
later than June 30, 1992 in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, (b) annually review such formula with the
Association, and (c) only further amend such formula with the
agreement of the Association. Prior to such modification in
1991, the Borrower shall only permit EAGB's tariffs to increase
from their March 1, 1991 levels if, and only to the extent
that, the domestic price of petroleum increases.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, no earlier than
Page  8
January 1, 1993 and no later than December 31, 1993, carry out
jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the progress
made in carrying out the Project.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be
carried out by EAGB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the EAGB
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all actions
necessary to cause its entities and agencies to settle
promptly, each month, their bills for electricity and water
consumption.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
September 30, 1995 adopt  a financial restructuring plan for
EAGB, which shall be acceptable to the Association, including
an assessment of the working capital needs of EAGB; and (b)
thereafter proceed to implement such financial restructuring
plan in accordance with the time table and other modalities
specified therein.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
            (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records, accounts
                    and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                    from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
            (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
Page  9
                    from the Credit Account, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
            (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
            (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
during October of each year, and at any other time at the
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the
Borrower's petroleum product pricing policies and its plans in
respect of the overall development of the petroleum
distribution sector.
      (b)   The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control
over the setting of prices of the petroleum distribution
companies, to establish prices for petroleum products sold by
such companies which would: (i) allow the companies, under
conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of
capacity utilization, to cover their operating costs including
taxes, earn an adequate return on funds invested in them, meet
their financial obligations and make a reasonable contribution
to future investment for expansion of capacity; and (ii) be
reasonably competitive with prices for petroleum products in
the international market.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   have the records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) of DICOL, including the records and accounts for
the Special Account opened for DICOL under the Project audited,
not later than June 30, 1996, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the completion of
such audit, (A) certified copies of DICOL financial statements
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
      (c)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EAGB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Page  10
EAGB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (c)   The charter documents of EAGB shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of EAGB to perform
any of its obligations under the EAGB Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of EAGB, or for the suspension of the
operations of EAGB.
      (e)   (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
                    paragraph:
                    (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                          proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                          Borrower for the financing of the Project
                          shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                          terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                          to the terms thereof, or
                    (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                          payable prior to the agreed maturity
                          thereof.
            (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                    apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                    satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                    suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                    for the Project are available to the Borrower
                    from other sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of the
                    Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of such Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio da Economia e Financas
            C.P. 67
            Bissau
            Guine-Bissau
Page  11
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    MEF                     257 MEF BI
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                    By
                                                  Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.  Part A of the Project
(1) (a)  Equipment, materials,      80,000       100% of foreign
         vehicles and spare                      expenditures
         parts for Part A.1 of
         the Project
    (b)  Equipment and materials   200,000       100% of foreign
         for Parts A.2 and A.3 (b)               expenditures
         of the Project
Page  12
(2)  Consultants' services       1,280,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
II.  Part B of the Project
(3)  Equipment and related       2,230,000       100% of foreign
     installation, materials                     expenditures
     and vehicles
(4)  Consultants' services       2,500,000       100% of foreign
     and training                                expenditures
III.  Part C of the Project
(5)  Petroleum products          2,140,000       100% of foreign
     for Part C of the                           expenditures, until
     Project                                     SDR 1,400,000 has
                                                 been disbursed and
                                                 30% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
                                                 thereafter
IV.  Miscellaneous
(6)  Refunding of Project          140,000       Amount due
     Preparation Advance                         pursuant to
                                                 Section 2.02 (c)
                                                 of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   860,000
                                 _________
          TOTAL                  9,430,000
                                 =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the
efficiency of the Borrower's petroleum product distribution
sector and electricity generation and distribution sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening of MNR and Energy Sector
            Restructuring by MNR
1.    Development (including related training of staff) and
operation within DGE of a technical cell to plan energy
policies for the Borrower and monitor the petroleum, electric
power and household energy sectors; related acquisition of
office, data processing equipment, and vehicles.
2.    Maintenance of the Borrower's provincial power stations
and depots, including acquisition of vehicles for maintenance
and supervision by DGE of the provincial power stations.
3.    Assistance for the restructuring of the petroleum sector,
including, inter alia: (a) support for the liquidation of DICOL
and Guine-Gas through the provision of technical advisory
services, and (b) provision and installation of emergency
safety and metering equipment for DICOL's storage facilities.
Page  13
4.    Carrying out of studies in the power sector to: (i) assess
the overall efficiency of provincial power production and
distribution system, (ii) prepare the implementation of new
management arrangements for the power sector, (iii) improve the
electricity tariff system, and (iv) prepare a least cost
expansion study for the period 1996-2005.
Part B:     Extension and Rehabilitation of EAGB's Electricity
            Generation and Distribution System, and
            Institutional Development of EAGB
1.    Installation and operation of: (a) one 3 MW diesel
electricity generating unit, an oil-water separator and an
incinerator unit (for the disposal of waste fuel and lube oil)
at EAGB's main station in Bissau; and (b) two 200 Kw
electricity generating units in Canchungo and rehabilitation of
related buildings, structures and auxiliaries.
2.    Emergency rehabilitation of the electricity distribution
networks in Bissau and Canchungo, and carrying out of related
preparatory studies.
3.    Strengthening of EAGB's operational and financial
management capabilities through: (a) acquisition and
implementation of a computerized billing and management
information system, (b) training of staff in electric sector
management and operation skills, (c) establishment of a
customer data file, (d) inventory and evaluation of assets and
stocks, and (e) acquisition of vehicles, tools, equipment and
spare parts.
4.    The carrying out of a study to prepare the implementation
of rehabilitation and extension works for Bissau and the
provincial centers.
5.    Implementation of a two year performance based management
contract.
Part C:     Operation of Petroleum Facility
      Establishment and operation by the Borrower of a revolving
facility, in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to
finance the import of petroleum products (the Petroleum
Facility) pending completion of the liquidation of DICOL:
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Items, or groups of items, for goods estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
Page  14
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of either of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of such Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of either of the
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts to the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts;
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
                            EAGB Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3)
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the EAGB Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the EAGB Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the EAGB Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the EAGB Special Account shall be made
as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
EAGB Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the EAGB Special Account,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the EAGB Special
                    Account at such intervals as the Association
                    shall specify.
            (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association                    
the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the EAGB
                    Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been
                    shown by said documents and other evidence to
                    have been paid out of the EAGB Special Account
                    for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the EAGB
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  16
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the EAGB Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the EAGB Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the EAGB Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the EAGB Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the EAGB
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the EAGB Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the EAGB Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
1.    Petroleum Facility
1.1   For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain, pending completion of the
liquidation of DICOL:
      (a)   an account in Guinea-Bissau pesos (hereinafter
referred to as the Working Capital Petroleum Account) in a
commercial bank located within the territory of the Borrower,
Page  17
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   an account in Dollars (hereinafter referred to as the
Petroleum Facility Account) in a commercial bank and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association.
1.2   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   use the Working Capital Petroleum Account as a
revolving fund to receive its local contribution to the
financing of the importation of petroleum products; and
      (b)   deposit into such account an amount in pesos
equivalent to the number of liters of petroleum products sold
to customers multiplied by the corresponding CIF value per
liter of such products.
1.3    The Borrower shall use the Petroleum Facility Account to
make available foreign currency for the importation of
petroleum products.
1.4   For the purposes of paragraph 1.3 above, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   deposit into the Petroleum Facility Account, within
ten (10) days following the end of each month, an amount in
Dollars equivalent to the amount in pesos deposited into the
Working Capital Petroleum Account during that month; and
      (b)   apply the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement:
      (i)   to deposit therein an amount not exceeding SDR
            1,400,000 equivalent to finance the initial
            importation of petroleum products; and
      (ii)  thereafter, from time to time to replenish the said
            Account by depositing therein amounts corresponding
            to the value of the petroleum products imported, in
            accordance with the disbursement percentages
            specified in said table.
1.5   Withdrawals from the Petroleum Facility Account for the
importation of petroleum products shall be subject to
submission of evidence satisfactory to the Association of
adequate compliance with procurement procedures in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
1.6   The Borrower shall, not later than July 15, 1995, employ
individuals to assist MNRI in the operation of the Petroleum
Facility in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.    The Borrower shall, and shall cause EAGB to, execute the
EAGB Contrat-Programme by June 30, 1992. MNRI shall allow the
Association to participate in all scheduled reviews of EAGB's
compliance under the EAGB Contrat-Programme.
3.    The Borrower shall cause Banco Central da Guine-Bissau to
enter into, not later than December 31, 1991, an on-lending
agreement with EAGB, on reasonable terms, relating to Unit No.
7 2.2 MW generator so as to permit EAGB's concurrent
acquisition of such unit.
4.    The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1995,
delegate to EAGB, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, the authority to prepare, implement and supervise
the extension or rehabilitation works of the Bissau electric
power and water production and distribution infrastructure, to
be financed under agreements to be signed after the date of
this Amended Agreement.
Page  18
5.    The Borrower shall furnish quarterly reports on the
progress achieved in the execution of the Project to the
Association.
