Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6247a-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 19, 1987
Infrastructure Division, Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of September 1987
Currency Unit                    Tunisian Dinar (DT)
DT 1                              = US$1.20
DT 1,000                          = TTS$l, 205
DT 1,000,000                      = US$1,205,000
US$1                              = DT 0.83
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                     British/US System
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)             = 0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (ton)                = 2,205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT      -   Average Daily Traffic
DAF      -   Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
(Administrative and Financial Directorate)
DGPC     -   Direction Gen6rale des Ponts et Chauss6es (Highway
Department)
DGTT     -   Direction Generale des Transports Terrestres (Land
Transport Department)
DRAL     -   Direction de la Recherche Appliqu6e et du Laboratoire
(Central Laboratory)
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
GP       -   Route de Grand Parcours (Primary Highway)
HDM      -   Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
MC       -   Route de Moyenne Communication (Secondary Highway)
MEH      -   Ministere de l'Equipement et de l'Habitat
(Ministry of Public Works)
MT       -   Ministere des Transports et du Tourisme (Ministry of
Transport)
OFPP     -   Office de la Formation et Promotion Professionnelle
(Training and Professional Improvement Institution)
OPNT     -   Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (Tunisian National
Ports Board)
RVE      -   Route Vicinale d'Etat (Tertiary Road)
SNCFT    -   Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (Tunisian
National Railroad Company)
SNTRI    -   Societ6 Nationale de Transport Rural et Interurbain
(National Rural and Interregional Transport Company)
SRTG     -   Societe Regionale de Transport de Gouvernorat (Regional
Transport Company)
STM      -   Societe de Transport de Marchandise (Freight Transport
Company)



FOR OFF7CLUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary                                                   i
I.     THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......                                               1
A.   The Transport System ....... ........................ I
B.    Planning .......................... *......... . .....  4
C.    Previous Bank Experience in the Sector ............... 6
II.     THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .........................*.........   6
A.   The Road Network ..................................... 6
B.   Traffic .............................................  7
C.    Road Transport .         ........ ....   ................... 9
D.    Highway Administration .............................. . 10
E.    Financing and Expenditure .......... ................  10
F.   Human Resources ......................12
G.    Planning and Engineering ..................... ......  12
H.    Construction ......................................13
I.   Maintenance .................           .... . ............ 14
lIII     THE PRO JECT .....................                                     .o.15
A.   Background .......................... *.15
B.   Objectives ................................. 15 l
C.    Project Description ............................                    15
D.    Cost Estimates and Financing            ............         .... l19
E.    Procurement ................... ...................... 22
F.    Implementation ..............*23
G.    Disbursements ................. .4
H.   Auditing .................                                    .. 25
This project was appraised by Messrs. Enn Vasur, Economist, Jacques Tollie,
Highway Engineer and Jean-Michel Verdier, Training Specialist, on the basis of
a mission to Tunisia in March 1986, and post-appraised by Mr. Jacques Tolli6
on the basis of a mission to Tunisia in October 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............................... 26
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ....................... 26
B.   Economic Analysis .......................... oe#o.***,26
C.   Project Risk ......................................... 27
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS .......................... .......... 2
ANNEXES
1.   Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector ........ 30
2.   Petroleum Products Price Structure ...................... 32
3.   Organization of the Highways Administration ............. 33
4.   Organization of a Regional Public Works Administration..34
5.   Capital and Recurrent Expenditures on Roads 1976-85 ..... 35
6.   Description of Training Component.......................36
7.   DGPC Design Criteria ....................................43
8.   Maintenance Organization and Operations ................. 45
9.   Action Plan ..................................................... 50
10.   Equipment and Buildings Requirements .................... 55
11.   Roads to Rehabilitate.  Provisional List ................ 57
12.   First Year Road Rehabilitation Program .................. 59
13.   Detailed Cost Estimates         .. .............. ......... 60
14.   implementation Schedule ..............                 ........... 61
15.   Disbursements Schedule .............                  ......... . .62
16.   Economic Analysis *-f Rehabilitation Program ............. 64
17.   Documents in Project File ............................... 69
TABLE
1.    Traffic Development 1967-84 ................          .....71
MAPS
1.    Tunisia Transport System (IBRD 19680)
L.    Road Traffic Flows (IBRD 19679)
0068d (Text)
0069d (Annexes)



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Government of Ttnisia
Amount:                 US$63 million
Terms:                  Seventeen years including four years of grace at
standard variable interest rate.
ProJect Objectives      The proposed Project aims at improving the
and Description:        management of highway maintenance activities
through organizational changes and strengthening;
rationalizing road maintenance budgeting; reducing
the backlog of road rehabilitation, and improving
management and training. It comprises a five-year
program of highway rehabilitation and maintenance,
and important institutional and human development
components. The Loan would finance: (a) periodic
maintenance, including the provision of equipment
and workshops; (b) road rehabilitation; and (c)
consultancy services and overseas training.
The main benefits are reduced vehicle operating
costs, the strengthening of the organization and
administration of DGPC, reduced accidents and
savings in travel time. The only foreseeable
risk is related to the timely availability of
counterpart funds. The Project includes special
supervision and monitoring measures to minimize
this risk.



-ii-
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:*                           Local     Forei        Total
----US$ Million Equivalent---
Capital Costs
Rehabilitation                                20.9        27.7        48.6
Asphaltic concrete overlay                     3.3         5.5         8.8
Workshop buildings                             1.5         1.0         2.5
Miscellaneous equipment                        1.0         3.6         4.6
Road maintenance equipment                     3.2        11.3        14.5
Consulting services                           0.3          1.3         1.6
Overseas training                             0.0          0.4         0.4
Base cost                                 30.2         50.8        81.0
Contingencies
Physical                                       3.0         5.1         8.1
Price                                         4.3          7.1        11.4
Total capital cost                        37.5           Q100.:
Recurrent Costs                                     92.5_
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      1365
FINANCING PLAN:                                    Local      Foreign      Total
----US$ Million Equivalent----
Government                                      136.8     32.5       169.3
Proposed Bank Loan                               -        63.0        63.0
TOTAL                                       136,       25.5      Z323
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
----------------------US$ Million-----------------
Bank FY     1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                     0.4    4.6   12.0   12.4   14.7   11.1    5.2    2.6
Cumulative                 0.4    5.0   .7.0   29.4   44.1   55.2   60.4   63.0
Economic Rate of Return minimum 30X.
* Includes $32.9 million in taxes and duties.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
General
1.01     The Seventh National Development Plan, 1987-91, whose
implementation nas just started, is pursuing the main objectives of the
Sixth Plar (1982-86) which concentrated on strengthening and diversifying
the economy, particularly through employment creation and emphasis on
agricultural and regional development. To achieve these objectives, a more
efficient use of investment resources as well as a reduced Central
Government investment level, have been recommended by the BankL/. A
better use of existing infrastructure, through maintenance and
rehabilitation, assumes an increasing importance to meet the needs of the
populatioc.
1.02     Tunisia's relatively small area, 164,000 km2, about 15 times
smaller than neighboring Algeria, coupled with an uneven distribution of
pol.ilation with the southern half very sparsely inhabited and with a strong
and increasing concentration of population and economic activity to the
northeast and east coasts, have strongly influenced the transport network
(Map 1). It is most densely developed in the coastal areas, especially in
the Bizerte-Tunis-Sousse-Sfax corridor and less dense in the regions more
distant from these well populated areas.
1.03     The transport infrastructure is relatively well developed.  It
includes five major ports (Bizerte, Tunis-La Goulette, Sousse, Sfax,
Gab6s), about 1,900 km of railway lines, some 9,JOO and 28,000 km of paved
and unpaved roads respectively and four international airports
(Tunis-Carthage, Monastir, Tozeur, Djerba). Apart from the transport of
phosphate rock on the freight side and passenger flows in the coastal
corridor and around Tunis, there are no specific items of traffic that
dominate the system; the different modes hanule a variety of commodities
and flows to serve the economy.
1/ Tunisia, Public Expenditures Review: "Adapting Public Expenditures to
Changing Resource Availability" (in five volumes).
January 1987 (Report No. 6604-TUN).



- 2 -
1.04     In the past the transport system has served Tunisia's development
process well, but as a large proportion of the network, especially the
roads and railways, date from before independence (1956), the system no
longer responds to actual traffic patterns and volumes. Total traffic has
shown a strong and consistent increase which has averaged about 82 p.a.
since 1970 for both freight and passengers. The increase has been
accompanied by a marked shift from the railways, whose share of traffic has
decreasei in favor of road transport which has regularly shown annual
traffic increases of above 102 during the same period (Table 1). Road
transpo:t is now the dominant transport mode carrying more than 90S of
passenger traffic and, excluding captive phosphate traffic (para. 1.08),
almost 702 of freight.
1.05     Government's involvement in the transport sector is quite
extensive. In addition to providing the infrastructure and promulgating
transport regulations it also owns most of the companies providing
transport services. However, for both freight and passenger transport
about one third only is being carried by these enterprises, the rest by
private cars and taxis or, in the ease of freight, mainly by own-account
trucks. While the Government is heavily involved in the sector, in
practice a fair amount of competition exists which is likely to increase
with the implementation of recent legislation (para. 2.13).
Highways
1.06     The highway subsector is described in Chapter II.
Railways
1.07     The railway system is operated by the Tunisian National Railway
Company (Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens, SNCFT), a
semi-autonomous agency responsible to the Ministry of Transport (Ministere
des Transports, MT). The network comprises about 1,900 km of track. That
part of the network which is situated north of Tunis, about 400 km, and
which provides the only international connection (to Algeria), is standard
gauge (1435 mm) whereas the rest of the system is meter gauge (1000 mm).
The two gauges developed during colonial times with the main line along the
north coast connecting the former French possessions being standard gauge
and the branch lines feeding into this line or directly to a port being
usually meter gauge.
1.08     Railway traffic has increased very slowly over the past 10-15
years with annual average growth rates of only about 12 and its relative
importance has sharply decreased. In 1970, the railways carried 37f of
freight (excluding phosphates) and 17% of main line passengers whereas the
current corresponding shares can be estimated to be about 13S and 62
respectively. The table below gives the development of some broad
categories of railway traffic.



-3-
Million pass-km or ton-km
1972    1977    1981    19S^    1985
Main line pass-km            337     447      556     506       460
Freight ton-km              1445    1339    1720    1896       1680
of which phosphate        (864)   (904)  (1092)  (n.a.)    (990)
Total traffic units   1782    1786    2276    2402       2140
Transport of phosphate rock from the mines around Gafsa to Gabes and Sfax
constitutes the major commodity flow handled by rail. At about 4 million
tons annually it represents close to two thirds of total freight ton-km.
1.09     Although not formally spelt out, t}e present transport policy
favors railways over other modes. The Sixth Plan (1982-86) allocated heavy
investments of doubtful economic justification for the expansion and
upgrading of the railway network. However, because of the country's
relatively small size and the distribution of economic activity
(para. 1.02), there are few long hauls and hence opportunities for
profitable traffic with the average freight haul length, excluding
phosphates, being 150 km. Also, the division of the network into staudard
and narrow gauges makes through traffic difficult. On the one hand, these
factors have contributed to a rapid decline of the relative import'nsce of
rail transport. However, on the other hand, the total resources allocated
to the railways, in terms of investments and operational deficits, have
grown to average about US$100 million equivalent annually. The discrepancy
between the decreasing role of the railways in the transport sector anl the
increasing financial resources required to run it, at a time when public
investments need to be reduced, has been brought to the Government's
attention in a Transport Sector Memorandum (Green Cover, July 1985).
Although the Government stated its agreement with the Bank's position,
there has been as yet no change in policy. To advance the dialogue, Bank
staff together with the Transport Planning and Coordination Unit in MT
(para. 1.17) recently undertook a brief study analyzing the railway
investment program. The study has been of assistance to the Government in
the preparation of the Seventh Plan. As part of the Bank's sector work, it
is expected that this analysis will be followed by a more comprehensive
review of the railways in view of a possible future sector operation or
inclusion of the railways in a future public enterprise restruLturation
loan.
Ports and Shipping
1.10     The main port facilities are owned and operated by the Tunisian
National Ports Board (Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens, OPNT), which
falls under the jurisdiction of MT. 902 of port traffic is handled in the
five OPNT ports, viz Tunis-La Goulette, Bizerte, Gabes, Sousse and Sfax
with Tunis-La Goulette, Bizerte and Sfax being of roughly equal importance,
each handling about 3.5 million tons per year. Tariffs have been increased
regularly to match increasing operating and investment costs and OPNT's



- 4 -
financial position has been sound. Cargo handling is the responsibility of
several companies, including one public enterprise, the Cargo Handling
Company of Tunisia (Societ6 Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention, STAM)
which is by far the largest.
1.11     Port traffic has increased by about 7Z annually for the past 15
years and now amounts to about 15 million tons. Almost all of this
increase has taken place in domestic coastal shipping which accounts for
about 30% of total port traffic, primarily of petroleum products.
International traffic has increased only modestly (2% p.a.). The part of
international traffic carried by Tunisian shipping lines constitutes about
10% and is the responsibility of two companies. The Tunisian Shipping
Company (Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation, CTN) is a semi-independent
company which currently owns 18 cargo vessels with a capacity of 165,000
tons.  The Gabes Chemical Transport Company (Gabes Chimie Transport, GCT)
owns and operates 6 ships for the transport of gas and liquid bulk for the
chemical industry. Under the ongoing port project the Bank has financed
berth modernization in La Goulette and Sfax (Annex 1, para. 2).
Airports and Air Traffic
1.12     Tunisia is served by four international airports; Tunis-Carthage,
Monastir, Tozeur and Jerba. Air passenger traffic has increased at an
average annual rate of 7% since 1974 and in 1984 reached 3.4 million
passengers, of which 90% was international traffic. The major airports are
managed by the Tunisian Airports Adminiszration (Office des Ports Aeriens
de Tunisie, OPAT), a semi-autonomous Government agency responsible to MT.
The national airline, Tunis Air, has expanded its services rapidly in
recent years with traffic growing at an annual rate oi 5% since 1977.
Total passenger traffic in 1984 amounted to 1.7 million passengers.
However, Tunis Air's financial performance has been ra*her poor due to
major investments in new aircraft and operating costs increasing faster
than revenue. The airline currently operates a fleet of 8 Boeing 727s, 4
Boeing 737s and one Airbus on routes to Europe, the Middle East and other
North African countries. A second small airline, Tunisavia, operates a
small fleet of charter aircraft and a limited schedule of domestic services.
B. Planning
1.13     The transport sector does not constitute a bottleneck for economic
and so:ial development in the sense that important links are missing or
demand far outweighs supply. However, in view of the severe overall
economic conditions and constraints now facing Tunisia, a policy of reduced
Government investment as well as of more efficient use of existing
resources in all sectors, including transport, is being pursued.
1.14     Investment in the transport sector during 1979-85 has been as
follows:



- 5 -
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
-Constant 1985 DT million-----                      --
Railways                23.1    74.3    81.1    71.8    79.5    86.9    74.4
Road and road
transport             75.3    84.6    81.5    57.7    75.5    81.4    73.0
Ports and
shipping              31.7    37.6    34.9    48.3    20.7    37.6    20.4
Airports and
airlines              40.2    15.8    32.4    74.8       7.3     7.9      9.5
Total         170.3   212.3   229.9   252.j   183.0   213.8   177.3
These investments include infrastructure investment as well as investment
in government owned and controlled companies. Twenty of these companies
are engaged in trucking and hence the investments made in them tend to
inflate the figures for the road subsector. On average over the period,
transport sector investments represent 13% of total investment and 18% of
total public investment. The imbalance in railway investments referred to
earlier (para. 1.09) is clearly evident.
1.15     Transport sector investment plans, as well as those of other
sectors, are formally expressed in five year National Economic and Social
Development Plans. Proposals are initiated by the agencies responsible and
then submitted through the relevant ministries to the Ministry of Planning
which coordinates and arbitrates between the various proposals to fit them
into the economic and political framework.
1.16     In the transport sector ministerial responsibilities are divided.
The planning, construction, operation and maintenance of road
infrastructure comes under the Ministry of Public Works (Ministere de
l'Equipement et de 1'Habitat, MEH), whereas the remainder of the transport
sector is under the Ministry of Tidnsport (MT). Various mechanisms for
coordination exist. At the top level there is the final arbitration of the
Ministry of Planning. At the working level MT/MEH interministerial working
groups are formed to handle transport issues in the preparation of the
successive National Economic and Social Development Plans.
1.17     In between the more formalized exercises such as annual budget
preparation or the preparation of Development plans, there was not any
planning covering the whole transport sector. This affectea especially the
possibility of improved mo6al coordination between road and rail. The lack
of a coordinated approach to planning was recognized by the Government and,
under the Fourth Highway Project, a Transport Planning and Coordinating
Unit was established in the MT. Its task is to analyze the whole transport
sector, regardless of ministerial boundaries, with special emphasis on
coordination between modes. This Unit now forms a part of MT's Planning
Directorate and plays a positive role, particularly thr ugh its involvement
in the preparation and implementation of the Seventh National Development
Plan.



- 6 -
C. Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
1.18     Since 1964, the Bank has made a total of ten loans in the
transport sector to Tunisia - five for highways, three for ports and one
each for railways and a pipeline. The overall experience has been positive
and the proposed project builds on and provides continuation to the
previous projects in the highways subsector. Annex 1 provides a
description of the Bank's experience in the sector.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01     Tunisia's road network comprises about 37,000 km of roads, of
which 17,000 km are termed 'classified' by the Highway Department
(Direction Generale des Pcnts et Chaussees, DGPC) which is under MEH.  The
remainder, comprising mainly rural access roads and tracks, (but also some
newer urban by-passes and streets) are mostly maintained by
municipalities. The classified roads are divided into three groups:
(a) primary highways (GP-routes de grand parcours) linking major
centers in Tunisia and providing links to neighboring
countries;
(b) secundary highways (MC-routes de moyenne communication) for
interregional service; and
(c) tertiary or local roads (RVE-routes vicinales d'Etat)
generally within a province.
2.02     Road standards are based on traffic volumes, so that in the
densely populated northeast many secondary and tertiary roads are paved
whereas in the sparsely popul b.ed southwest some primary roads have gravel
or earth surfaces. The table below shows the distribution of types of
surfacing by road classification.
Road Network as of 1984 (km)
Gravel and        Unimproved
Paved     Improved Earth          Earth        Total
Expressways and
motorways                  55               -                              55
GP                         3520             211               301          4032
MC                         3665             730              2168          C 53
RVE                        1635             755              3839          6229
Total classified
network                  8875            1696              6308         16879
Non-classified
network                   265            2883             17213         20361
Total             9140            4579             23521        37240



2.03     At independence, Tunisia inherited a relatively well developed
road network which was adequate for that period. However, due to the
subsequent rapid traffic increases the pavement strength and geometric
conditions are now largely inadequate. To determine the condition of the
network a Road Maintenance Study!/ was carried out under the Fourth
Highway Project and its principal findings are discussed below.
2.04     The majority of Tunisian roads were found to be narrow as shown by
the following study data.
Road width                    Lenath (km)    2 of Paved Network
Expressways and
motorways (4 lanes)                55                 1%
More than 7.5 m (others)            321                 3%
6.5 - 7.5 m                       617                 7%
5.5 - 6.5 m                      2252                24%
4.5 - 5.5 m                      3579                38%
Less than 4.5 m                    2578                27%
Thus about two thirds of the paved roads have pavement widths of 5.5 m or
less. Taken together with the strong increase in traffic (para. 2.08) the
narrowness of the roads represents a serious problem for traffic safety as
well as for road deterioration, especially of pavement edges because
vehicles when meeting have to partly run on the road shoulder.
2.05     With respect to the general condition of the paved network, and
based on the maintenance study, the consultants have estimated-/, on the
basis of an extensive inventory, that about 552 can be considered in good
condition, a little less than 102 in outright poor condition and the
remaining third somewhere in between. However the distribution varies
considerably between the climatic regions and close to 402 is in poor
condition in the northwestern region which has the highest precipitation.
B. Traffic
2.06     Based on an accelerating growth of the vehicle fleet, road traffic
has increased rapidly over the last 10-15 years. Although detailed and
reliable statistics are not available, estimates show a growth rate of the
total fleet over the period 1977-82 of more than 112 annually.
1/ Etude de l'Entretien routier. Setec International, Sotuetec-Sotinfor.
Aouit 1984.



-8-
Average Annual
Growth Rate (2)
Vehicle Type             1972       1977       1982      1972-77      1977-82
Passenger cars            57,213    83,622   119,078           7.9          7.3
Buses                      1,866      2,369      2,940         4.9         4.4
Pickups, light and
heavy trucks            12,036    14,009    48,074           3.1        30.0
Total            71,115   100,000   170,092          7.1         11.2
2.07     Private cars are subject to high import duties, typically 160%.
Such taxes are much lower for pickups and light trucks and these vehicles
are nearly all diesel fuelled. The combination of lower tax rates and the
lower cost of diesel fuel, which is less than half the price of regular
gasoline, accounts for the very large increase in the number of these two
classes of vehicles. The relationship between diesel and gasoline retail
prices is being addressed through the Energy Pricing and Interfuel
Substitution Study within the framework of the Bank's Energy Sector Work.
Annex 2 shows the petroleum products price structure which shows that the
retail prices for petroleum products are clearly above their opportunity
costs.
2.08     Since 1968 MEH has conducted nationwide traffic counts on the
paved network at five year intervals. The latest survey dates from 1982
and its results are shown graphically on Map 2. Traffic is heavily
concentrated on the coast between Tunis and Sfax and, in terms of annual
vehicle km, about 75% of the traffic occurs in the Tunis-Sousse-Sfax
regions. Traffic growth rates, as measured by vehicle-km traveled per km
of road length, have surpassed 10% annually between 1977 and 1982 which
makes for an increase of about 70% of average traffic density (vehicle
km/km) on the paved network in this period.  The increase is illustrated by
the following Table.
Average Daily    On 2 of Paved Network
Traffic (ADT)          1979        1982
Less than 750          65          36
750 - 1500            17          31
1500 -  300             9          17
More than 3000          9          16
2.09     Legal restrictions on vehicle weights and dimensions are based on
French standards and are satisfactory. A 1983 survey showed that
overloaded axles in excess of the 12-ton legal maximum were not a
significant problem. Nevertheless, to continue the level of enforcement
and to meet the increase in traffic, replacement and additional weighing
equipment is required; this equipment together with appropriate technical
aesistance is included under the proposed project (para. 3.03).



- 9 -
C. Road Transport
2.10     Passenger and freight road transport have been heavily regulated,
both with respect to pricing and entry into the market. However, in
practice, government owned trucking enterprises have not proved competitive
and almost two-thirds of total road freight transport is carried by
own-account or small owrer-operator vehicles. All three categories exhibit
inefficier.cies in various forms such as low utilization and low load
factors. Other issues, tied to Government owned enterprises, are high
operating costs with resulting large deficits, inflexible tariffs not well
related to costs and unclear rules for compensating socially motivated
transport services. However, the situation is improving (para. 2.13), and
studies to explore policy options are underway (para. 2.20).
2.11     For interurban road passenger traffic, it is estimated that of the
total 5,200 million passenger km about 40% is carried by Government owned
enterprises, 402 by private cars and "voitures de louage", (long-distance
shared taxis) and the remainder by miscellaneous means such .s taxis and
tourist buses. The Government organizations providing these passenger
services are the National Rural and Interregional Transport Company
(Societ' Nationale de Transport Rural et Interurbain, SNTRI) which provides
intercity bus transport in all governorates of Tunisia, and twelve Regional
Transport Companies (Societes Regionales de Transport de Gouvernorat,
SRTG), providing urban bus and truck services locally as well as
nationally.
2.12     Freight transport is primarily carried out by the Government owned
Freight Transport Company (Socik6 de Transport de Marchandises, STM), the
aforementioned twelve SRTGs, owners of small trucks, and companies with an
own account truck fleet. Owners of small trucks (total weight less than
3.5 t) are the only persons who are completely free to transport what they
want, either for themselves or for others without any authorization. With
the exception of the small truck activities, government owned trucking
enterprises have a monopoly on common-carrier trucking activities -
currently about one third of the freight market.
2.13     Nevertheless, during the last five years the MEH has introduced a
number of improvements in the regulations. For instance, regulations have
been abolished that prohibit regional transport organizations like the
SRTGs to transport goods outside one of the five zones to which they were
assigned, put limits on total truck capacity which each of these zones was
allowed to have, and put limits on total truck capacity of STM. In August,
1985, Parliament passed a new law for the "organization of land
transport". The law only gives broad guidelines but decrees to implement
the law are under preparation. The decrees are expected to go in the
direction of a cautious liberalization, allowing increased private
participation in both passenger and freight transport.
A recent Bank report- analyses road transport in detail and the dialogue
with the Government will be continued under the Bank's sector work.
1/ Road Transport Regulations in Tunisia, October 1985.



- 10 -
D. Highway Administration
2.14     The organization of DGPC within MEH (Annex 3) is the result of an
important decentralization decision in 1981, which created, in each of the
23 governorates, a regional MEH directorate with its road department
responsible for road maintenance, own account construction as well as
equipment management and maintenance (Annex 4).
2.15     The objectives 3f the decentralization were to make the regional
administrations directly responsible for the execution of all MEH
activities on the regional level. The implementation of this
decentralization has not yet been fully carried through, mainly because the
means put at the disposal of the regions do not match the responsibilities
foreseen. Lence the actual functioning of DGPC does not correspond to that
which was foreseen in the various Government decrees establishing the
present organization. In particular, a rumber of important functioning
positions do not legally exist, but are filled by various ad hoc
arrangements. Under the project, these positions will be formally
recognized by the Government and filled by capable staff (para. 2.35 and
Annex 9).
2.16     Although regional road maintenance services need strengthening,
the present functioning of the central services is the main issue. There
is a need for the central services to provide much needed professional
guidance and leadership. A strengthening of the central administration is
required (para. 2.35), particularly with respect to continuous inspection
of road conditions and giving professional assistance to the regions.
2.17     Equipment management and maintenance is formally regionalized to
the extent that the corresponding central function no longer exists in the
legal texts defining the present organization. However, the capabilities
of the regions vary enormously with some regions almost totally devoid of
maintenance facilities. In practice therefore the central workshops in
Tunis have continued to maintain and repair as much as has been possible.
The resulting situation has been highly unsatisfactory with an unclear
distribution of res7onsibility and inadequate maintenance. The
Administration has therefore decided to reorganize (para. 2.35) this
function and assistance for this purpose is included in the project
(para. 3.12).
2.18     The Action Plan (Annex 9) includes the necessary actions and
timing to bring about the improvements noted in the above paragraphs.
E. Financing and Expenditure
2.19     Road subsector financing is included under two separate main
headings in the Government budget - capital expenditure and recurrent
expenditure. Capital expenditure, which includes construction of new
roads, major modernization, rehabilitation, heavy periodic maintenance and
purchase of equipment is controlled by the Ministry of Planning.  Recurrent
expenditure covering, in addition to administrative expenses, routine
maintenance, light periodic maintenance and minor improvements is
controlled by the Ministry of Finance. The table below and Annex 5 show
road sector expenditures.



- 11 -
Capital and Recurrent Expenditures on Roads 1980-85
(Current DT million)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Capital expenditure       17.45    21.68    22.25    32.00    36.35    39.00
Recurrent expenditure      8.36     8.40    10.99    12.61    13.70    15.16
Total           25.81    30.08    33.24    44.61    50.05    54.16
2.20     Since all equipment and spare parts purchases are carried under
the capital budget, the maintenance expenditures are somewhat understated.
It appears, however, that about 302 of total funds for road infrastructure
have been spent on maintenance for the last three years. Road users
contribute to Government revenues through various taxes and fees such as
annual vehicle registration fees, taxes on fuel, lubricants and tires, and
import duties on vehicles and spares. The total revenue frim road users,
such as fuel taxes, vehicle taxes and registration fees, covers well the
total expenditure on the road network. There are indications that heavy
trucks might be taxed too low. However, this question is being studied
under the Bank's research study of Pricing and Taxing Transport in
Developing Countries and conclusive data will be discussed with the
Government under the Bank's sector work.
2.21     The quality of road construction and rehabilitation carried out
under the capital expenditure program has been generally good. A major
portion of the investments has been carried out within Bank financed
projects (Second and Fourth Highway Projects and Third and Fifth Rural
Roads Projects) which have shown high economic returns. Despite an
increase in capital expenditure (including rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance) which has averaged about 6Z annually in real terms an
important backlog of rehabilitation and maintenance work has developed
(para. 2.33). Reduction of this backlog is part of the 5 year program
included under the proposed project.
2.22     Due to growth in traffic and the expansion of the road network,
the average annual increase of recurrent expenditure has been about 3.52
during the 1976-85 period. In the 80's this rate increased to about 62
which was partly to meet the needs of the administrative decentralization
then being implemented. Measures identified to improve the quality of the
DGPC services and to adequately maintain the road network, would require a
continued increase of the recurrent expenditure over the next five years of
about 6% annually. A forecast for adequate recurrent and capital
expenditure related to maintenance and rehabilitation is included in
para. 3.13.
2.23     Although Government plans to reduce total public investments, it
nevertheless intends to give increased emphasis to maintenance and
rehabilitation. This is reflected in the project which provides for an
increase in the level of recurrent expenditure as well as in the level of
capital expenditure for road rehabilitation, which is in line with the



- 12 -
recommendations of the Bank's "Public Sector Expenditure Review" report
(para. 1.01). The expenditures for the roads subsector will be detailed in
the Seventh National Development Plan (1987-91). During negotiations it
was agreed that the Bank review and comment on proposed road subsector
expenditures on an annual basis and that the Government will take these
comments into account in preparation of the annual budgets (para. 5.02).
F. Human Resources
2.24     MEH employs a total of about 7,000 personnel, of which about 3,500
are under DGPC and assigned to road construction and maintenance
activities. All MEH personnel are managed by a central administrative and
financial directorate (direction des affaires administratives et
financieres - DAF). Within this directorate, a central training unit is
responsible for training of all MEH personnel. However, this unit does not
have the necessary resources to deal specifically with DGPC personnel.
There are also two units under DGPC dealing specifically with skills. One
was in charge of recruitment and testing of mechanics but is no longer
operational due to lack of personnel; and the other, the training unit, to
which is assigned a training officer, has so far had only a limited impact
on improving the skills of DGPC manpower forces, due to apparent lack of
commitment, lack of work program and adequate local resources.
2.25     The need for improved training was recognized by the Government
and a start was made under the Fourth Highway Project directed principally
at training professional staff. However, the training function remains
weak and the proposed project therefore addresses all major aspects of
training requirements for DGPC. These are described in Annex 6 and
specific measures to be taken to improve training are incorporated in the
Action Plan (Annex 9).
G. Planning and Engineering
2.26     Investments in road construction and rehabilitation are based on
sound economic criteria. A Highway Master Plan, financed under the Second
Highway Project and completed by consultants in 1982, provides the
framework for road planning and the Highway Maintenance Study of 1984
(para. 2.03) analyzed and defined maintenance and rehabilitation needs.
The knowledge of the subsector is thus quite good. Based on these studies,
the Studies Division of DGPC carries out planning work either through its
own resources or through local consultants. Where appropriate, the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), adapted to Tunisian
conditions, is used for economic and policy studies.
2.27     Within DGPC the Studies Division has competent staff to carry out
survey and design work for small and medium sized road construction
projects as well as for rehabilitation projects entailing few alignment
changes. Consultants are employed for larger projects. Some minor design
is carried out by regional staff. The Central Laboratory and Applied
Research Division (Direction de la Rechorche Appliquee et du Laboratoire,
DRAL) is competently staffed and has a reasonable range of equipment in



- 13 -
generally good condition. However, if the DRAL is to play its proper role
in the maintenance management system, especially in the fields of pavement
and bridge structural surveys, additional specialized personnel and
equipment are needed which are covered under the proposed project (Action
Plan, Annex 9).
2.28     The design standards used by DGPC are satisfactory.  Geometric
standards are based on a design speed chosen based on traffic, terrain and
function of the road. Pavement design is also satisfactory and is based on
a "catalogue of pavement structures for new construction and
strengthening", updated within the framework of the Maintenance Study
(Annex 7).
2.29     Although the Maintenance Study (para. 2.03) provides a good
assessment of the condition of the paved network, some aspects of the study
should be extended to allow continuous analysis of paved roads over a
longer period of time as well as to cover gravel roads. Also, axle load
surveys carried out under the Maintenance Study should be updated on a
regular basis, and it is essential that the existing axle load legislation
continues to be enforced (para. 2.09). The project will provide technical
assistance and specialized equipment for these purposes (para. 3.03, 3.12
and Annex 9).
H. Cotnstruction
2.30     Tunisia has a well developed contracting industry, with several
local firms fully up to international contracting standards and with
foreign firms also active. Construction works are normally carried out
under unit price contracts awarded after competitive bidding and contract
prices are competitive. Small contracts (of the order of US$2 million) are
usually won by Tunisian contractors, while larger contracts (over US$5
million) are frequently won by joint ventures of foreign and local
contractors. The Federation of Building and Civil Engineering Contractors
(Chambre Syndicale des Entrepreneurs) has over 400 members. All companies
are classified by DGPC according to their capacity, experience and skills.
While about 60 percent of the members are builders only, with a work
capacity of less than DT 350,000 a year, at the other end of the scale are
about 20 companies qualified to bid for unlimited value complex civil works
contracts. Payment to contractors by DGPC has been reported to be an
issue, with payment being made usually several months after submission of a
payment certificate. These delays are expected to be eased by better
planning of works by MEH and firmer financing commitment from the Ministry
of Planning.
2.31     Except for very large special projects, for which the Government
relies on consulting firms, construction supervision is carried out by DGPC
engineers with the assistance of DRAL. This supervision work is carried
out by the regional engineers, with some assistance from headquarters for
larger projects. To ensure full consistency throughout the 23 regional
directorates in the use of contract documents, specifications and



- 14 -
reporting, involvement of headquarters should be more systematic. This
will be achieved through the establishment of an organization and methods
Unit in DGPC (para. 3.06), as provided for in the Action Plan (Annex 9).
I. Maintenance
2.32     Highway maintenance (Annex 8) is the responsibility of the
Regional Directorates and is carried out by force account, except for
periodic maintenance on asphaltic concrete pavements which is executed by
contract. Rehabilitation is also executed by contract, except for works on
small sections (widening, strengthening, etc.) which are carried out by the
periodic maintenance crews. While these arrangements appear satisfactory,
the current level of road maintenance is inadequate as explained below.
2.33     During the latter part of the 1970's road maintenance and
rehabilitation started to lag seriously behind that which was economically
justified. Because resources available were largely used to expand the
network at the expense of maintenance and rehabilitation activities, an
increasing portion of the road network deteriorated below the standard
required by the rapidly increasing traffic volumes. In addition, the DGPC
decentralization (para. 2.15) contributed to a lowering of efficiency in
road maintenance operations with the Regional Directorates not yet geared
up for the task and receiving inadequate support from the central
organizations. For example, there has been an insufficient level of task
definition, of control, of equipment performance monitoring and of training
in the equipment maintenance organization. Nevertheless, although these
events have all contributed to a lowering of levels of maintenance,
improvements are in sight.
2.34     The Fourth Highway Project has focused increased attention to
maintenance and rehabilitation as witnessed through increased budgets for
these activities and more forceful maintenance/rehabilitation programs.
The central services have now a better knowledge of regional needs and are
becoming more conscious of their responsibilities and more willing to
discharge them. Similarly, the Regional Directorates are more aware of
their responsibilities in providing adequate maintenance.
2.35     The need now is to build up and strengthen all institutions in the
decentralized system. The central Road Maintenance and Operation Division
will be strengthened to enable it to meet its functional responsibilities,
especially through a new Organization and Methods Unit. Within the central
Equipment Maintenance Division the focus will be on: (i) coordination of
equipment maintenance, inspection and advice on equipment operations;
(ii) centralization of equipment procurement; and (iii) the only
operational role remaining at the central level which will be the major
equipment repairs. At the regional level, the Road Units within the
Regional Directorate have now the main operational role as far as
maintenance tasks are concerned. They will be strengthened to fulfill
their roles. These measures are included under the proposed project
through measures in the Action Plan, which also sets forth physical targets
to be achieved (Annex 9).



- 16 -
(d) institutional development and studies for:
(i)    establishing an organization and methods unit;
(ii)    improving mechanical equipment maintenance;
(iii)    reinforcing laboratory services;
(iv)    economic studies and detailed engineering for
implementing the rehabilitation program.
3.04     The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange content
of:
(a) that part of periodic maintenance carried out by contract
(asphaltic concrete overlay), maintenance and traffic
equipment, and facilities and equipment for repair workshops
and the DRAL;
(b) 800 km of road rehabilitation by contract;
(c) consultancy services and overseas training for the
improvement of the DGPC personnel management system and for
the preparation and implementation of the training plan,
including overseas training and training equipment; and
(d) consultants services for studies and other technical
assistance.
During negotiations, the Government agreement concerning project objectives
and description was obtained (para. 5.02).
Road Maintenance Program
3.05     DGPC has prepared a road maincenance program (para. 2.35 and
Annex 9) that would begin in 1987, with implementation continuing through
the Seventh Development Plan (1987-91). The program will raise the
maintenance effort to meet the needs of the network as defined by the
Maintenance Study. The efficiency of routine maintenance activities will
be improved through work programming, training and increased funding.
Periodic maintenance activities (i.e. surface dressing, overlays,
regravelling of unpaved roads and of shoulders) will be intensified to meet
the frequencies necessitated by regional climate, traffic and road
condition.
3.06     The proposed project covers five years (1988-92) and is detailed
in Annex 9. The Bank-financed components comprise the acquisition of new
maintenance and traffic equipment, the provision of workshop and associated
equipment (Annex 10), asphalt concrete overlays, and technical assistance
to create a maintenance oriented Organization and Methods Unit and to
tmprove the mechani^al equipment maintenance organization. The roJe of the
Organization and Methods Unit, described in para. 6 of Annex 8, is central
to the project, and the establishment of this Unit as well as the
employment of its head, are made a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
5.03).



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     The proposed project is a follow-up to the Fourth Highway Project
(1841-TUN) whose major objective was to improve the management of the
highway network. At that time, the need for a second phase project was
explicitly recognized to continue the momentum of the longer term
institutional changes and improvements. Furthermore, the Fourth Project,
as originally appraised, had subsequently to be reduced when expected
cofinancing did not materialize. The road rehabilitation program, the
project's main component, was cut and thus an important portion of the
backlog of works identified in 1979 remains. It has also become
increasingly clear during implementation of the Fourth Project that serious
institutional and budgetary issues have not been resolved especially in
training, routine road maintenance, and mechanical equipment maintenance.
The proposed project addresses these issues.
B. Obiectives
3.02     The principal objective of the project is to improve the use of
resources, especially by improving the management of the Tunisian highway
network. Specifically the project aims at:
(a) improving the efficiency of road maintenance through
organizational changes and strengthening;
(b) achieving a proper balance in highway expenditures between
maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction;
(c) reducing the backlog of road rehabilitation; and
(d) improving personnel management and training in the highways
subsector;
C. Project Description
3.03     In order to achieve these objectives, the proposed project
eomprises:
(a) a five-year routine and periodic maintenance program
including procurerent of maintenance equipment, and workshop
and laboratory facilities and equipment (including vehicle
weighing equipment);
(b) a five-year program of road rehabilitation covering about
800 km of roads;
(c) improvement of the human resources management system
including the establishment of a training directorate and
preparation and implementation of a five year training plan;
and



- 17 -
3.07     During loan negotiations, the form and contents of the Action Plan
were agreed and assurances obtained that the Government will, through the
DGPC, carry out the five-year program in accordance with this Action Plan.
Updated annual programs and budgetary allocations for the road subsector
including maintenance, rehabilitation and training, consistent with the
Action Plan, will be submitted to the Bank by Aligust 15 each year starting
1988 for review and comment, prior to implementation during the following
year. Not later than February 15 each year beginning in 1989, the Bank and
Government will review and discuss these programs in light of the approved
annual budget. The Govermaent will take all appropriate measures to carry
out these programs, including the provision of adequate budgetary
allocations and taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 5.02).
Road Rehabilitation Program
3.08     The works consist of pavement strengthening, with or without road
widening, and also road widening alone where pavement strength is adequate
and where justified by high traffic volumes. At present, about 1,200 km of
roads have been identified as requiring rehabilitation. Elimination of
this backlog will require an approximate eight year program with the
existing physical and financial capacities, and two thirds of this program
are proposed to be undertaken during the five years of the project. The
provisional list of roads is given in Annex 11. Economic studies and
detailed engineering have been carried out for the sections to be improved
during the first year (1988) of the Program (Annex 12), which have a total
length of 168 km. Pavement design is based on deflection measurements, the
existing pavement structure, and the Tunisian "catalogue" of pavement
strengthening design. The methodology is satisfactory. The sections to be
improved during subsequent years will be prepared on a continuous basis in
time for approval by the Bank to meet the planned work program. To prepare
the economic evaluation, designs and contract documents for the sections to
be implemented, DGPC will require the assistance of consultants, to be
financed under the proposed project.
3.09     The criteria for Bank approval of rehabilitation subprojects would
be that the quality of the preparation and analysis is acceptable to the
Bank and that subprojects are of high priority and are economically
viable. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that, before calling for bids, DGPC will submit the technical
and economic evaluation of rehabilitation subprojects for the Bank's
approval, according to the same methodology, criteria, and procedures as
agreed with the Bank under the Fourth Highway Project, including an
economic return of at least 12% (para. 5.02).
Human Resources
3.10     The objectives of the 1988-1992 training plan to be implemented
under the project are:
(a) strengthening personnel management by:
(i)    introdtcing systems for forecasting personnel needs and
keeping updated personnel inventory and evaluation;



- 18 -
(ii)    forecasting personnel needs for the ten coming years and
assessing training needs for that period based upon existing
personnel inventory and evaluation;
(iii)    reactivating personnel skill testing for recruitment;
(iv)    implementing measures aiming at increasing personnel
motivation, including productivity and efficiency, and
reducing personnel turnover.
(b) strer.gthening the training function by:
(i)    establishing the training directorate, including improvement
of the personnel management system and preparation and
im.plementation of t!e training plan which includes 76
man-months of consultent services and 122 man-months of
fellowships for overseas training (para. 3.03);
(ii)    creating a training steering committee; and
(iii)    creating ad-hoc technical panels.
(c) providing DGPC with the qualified personnel required for:
(i)    the new units to be created and existing ones to be
strengthened under the project;
(ii)    replacement of retiring personnel (between 1981 and 1991
about 1,000 employees will retire); and
(iii)    implementing the administrative regionalization and
decentralization, including the 23 regional directorates, the
23 regional workshops, and also the 5 main workshops.
About 65 engineers, 300 field supervisors, 700 operators and drivers, 80
mechanical supervisors, and 350 mechanics are to be trained under the
project. In view of the important role to be played by the Training
Directorate and the Training Steering Committee, their establishment is
made a condition of Loan effectiveness (para. 5.03).
3.11     Existing training institutions will be used for the most part for
preparing and implementing the training plan. In particular, DGPC will
contract to the Training and Professional Improvement Institution (Office
de la Formation et Promotion Professionnelle - OFPP)V' training of
existing, or newly recruited, middle-level supervisors and skilled workers
1/ OFPP is under the Ministry of Social Affairs. Its mission includes the
following: (i) ensuring that national training policy is relevant to
country economic needs and addresses these needs; (ii) preparing and
implementing of training plans; and (iii) developing training
activities in enterprises. OFPP operates more than 70 training
centers, of which 8 in mechanics and equipment operation. OFPP
receives Bank assistance under the Education IV Project. The contract
with OFPP is foreseen to be financed partly under the Fourth Highway
Project (1841-TUN).



- 19 -
in the road and equipment maintenance fields. OFPP will also inventory and
evaluate the professional skills of existing personnel with a view towards
reassignment, transfer, promotion and preparation of relevant training
programs. The first con.tract between DGPC and OFPP was reviewed by the
Bank before negotiations (Annex 6, Annex 9).
Institutional Development and Studies
3.12     In addition to the important institution building aspect of the
human resources development, the project includes the following consultant
services:
(a) establishing an organization and methods unit, 24 man-month8
(paras. 3.03 and 3.06);
(b) mechanical equipment organization, 36 man-months (paras. 3.03
and 3.06);
(c) reinforcing the laboratory services, 18 man-months
(paras. 3.03);
(d) economic studies and detailed engineering for implementing
the rehabilitation program, 50 man-months (para. 3.08).
Outline Terms of Reference, contained in the Project File (Annex 17), have
been agreed with Government and this was confirmed during negotiations
(para. 5.01).
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
Project Cost Estimates
3.13     The table below shows the capital and recurrent cct estimates of
the proposed project. A detailed cost estimate table is found in
Annex 13. The total capital cost is estimated at US$100.5 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component equivalent to
US$63.0 million, and a local c-'st component of US$37.5 million equivalent,
including US$19.9 million equivalent in taxes and duties. The recurrent
costs of the five year maintenance program are estimated at
US$131.9 million equivalent including US$13.0 million equivalent in taxes
and duties. The overall cost of the five-year program is therefore
estimated at US$232.3 million. The cost estimates were discussed and
confirmed during negotiations (para. 5.01).
3.14     Estimates for civil works are based on unit prices for recent
contracts in Tunisia, adjusted to September 1987 levels, and on completed
engineering studies for the first-year program of works. The estimated
cost of the five-year maintenance program is based on these unit prices and
preliminary estimates of the quantity of each class of works required on
the roads in the program. Cost estimates for road maintenance equipment
are based on recent purchase prices. The technical assistance cost
estimates are based on recent rates for consulting services in Tunisia.
3.15     Recurrent costs are funded by the Ministry of Finance through
budget allocations to DGPC for road maintenance and administration. These
costs for the five-year program are based on current budget alloactions,



- 20 -
SunMary of Prolect Costs
(September 1987 Cost Estimates)
Foreign as
Capital CostsTi Loal  Fgreign  Toal                            l  Foreign  lotal       %X of Ttal
DT million                US$ million
- Rehabilitation                        17.3    23.0    40.3       20.9    27.7    48.6           57
- Asphaltic concrete overlay             2.7     4.6    .T3          3.3     5.6      8.8         63
- Workshops buildings                    1.3     0.8        0        1.5     0.9      2.5         38
- Equipment lab., workshop,
traffic and training                0.8      3.0     3.8        1.0      3.6     4.6         78
- Road maintenance equipment             2.6     9.4    12.0         3.2    11.3    14.5          78
- Consulting services                    0.2     1.1      1.3        0.3     1.3      1.6         83
- Overseas training                     _.Q      0.4      0 4        QL.     0.4      0.4        100
Base costs                    25.0    42.2    67.2        30.2    50.8    81.0          62.8
Physical contingencies1"       2.5     4.2      6.7        3.0     5.1      8.1
Price contingencies2'          3       .L9      9.5       .A-I 4   _3J.1    11.4
Total capital costs    31.1    52.3    83.4         37.5    63.0   100.5 3,        62.7
Recurrent Costs                   1        1       1990    12].  I122             Total
(in million dinars - base 1987)         OT        US$
..  Operations:
- Supplies                           7.5      8.4     9.3    10.3    11.4    46.9         56.5
- Labor                              7.5      7.7     7.9      8.1      8.2    39.4       47.5
11.  Administration:
- Salaries                           1.6      1.7      1.8     1.8      1.9     8.8       10.6
- Buildings                          0.8      0.9     0.9      0.9      0.9     4.4        5.3
Price contingencies4'            0..6L    1.2     1.7    -2.8      .6         9.9     119.
Total recurrent costs    18.0    19.9    21.6    23.9    26.0   109.4          131.8
Total project costs                                                  192.8     232.3
.1  Physical contingencies amount to 10% for all items; not applicable to recurrent costs.
3/ Price escalations are as follows: 1.0% for 1988-90, and 3.5% for 1991-92 for foreign costs,
and 7.0% for 1988-92 for local costs.
3/ Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$19.9 million equivalent and the total project
capital cost, net of taxes, is US$80.6 million equivalent.
d/ Price escalation for recurrent costs are based on an annual average rate of 3%.



- 21 -
increased by the cost of additional supplies, equipment operations and
labor, necessary to support expanded maintenance operations (paras.
2.32-2.35) in accordance with the Action Plan. The provision of adequate
recurrent budgets in accordance with the Action Plan was agreed during
negotiations (para. 5.02).
3.16     Physical contingencies of 10% of base costs have been allowed on
all capital items. Contingency allowances for price escalation were
calculated for each year of the planned implementation schedule (Annex 13),
and overall represent 132 of base line costs plus physical contingencies.
3.17     Foreign exchange components have been calculated for each project
component. For civil works, the breakdown between foreign and local
components (the local including taxes) >as calculated for each major item
in the bill of quantities, assuming that most of the contracts would be
awarded to Tunisian contractors. This latter assumption was based on
recent prequalifications and contract awards.
Financing
3.18     The Borrower would be the Government of Tunisia.  The proposed
Bank loan of US$63.0 million, representing 32% of the total project costs
excluding taxes, would finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of
the capital costs, or 66X of the foreign exchange component of the total
project costs. During negotiations, the Government has agreed that it will
provide all funds necessary to complete the project and the financing
program (para. 5.02) which is shown below:
Table 1: Financing ProRram
(US$ million)-
Project Element                   Government        IBRD          Total
Capital Costs
Rehabilitation                             26.2          34.6           60.8
Asphaltic concrete overlays                 4.0           6.9           10.9
Workshops buildings                         1.9            1.1           3.0
Equipment for workshop, laboratory,
traffic and training                      1.3           4.7            6.0
Road maintenance equipment                  3.8          13.6           17.4
Consulting services                         0.3           1.6            1.9
Overseas training                           0.0           0.5            0.5
Total                            37.5           63.0          100.5
Recurrent Costs                           131.8           --           131.8
Total Cost                      169.3           63.0          232.3
1/ Including distributed contingencies.



- 22 -
E. Procurement
Bank Financed Components
3.19     Contracts for road rehabilitation would be awarded after
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The works would be geographically grouped in lots with an
aggregate value of not less than US$4 million to make the contracts
attractive to larger contractors, and contractors would be prequalified to
undertake either single or several lots.
3.20     The periodic asphaltic concrete overlay contracts, awarded over
the 5 year period, are small and scattered throughout the country, with a
maximum grouped value of US$1.0 million, and would be most efficiently
procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. The workshops
buildings also would be most efficiently procured through LCB. As regards
LCB, a Regional procurement review has confirmed that Tunisia's local
competitive procurement bidding rules and procedures are acceptable,
provided no preference is granted for purposes of bid comparison to any
group of bidders, all bidders are treated equally especially in terms of
the requirements of furnishing bid and performance securitiess bids are
opened in public and foreign firms wishing to participate are allowed to do
so in accordance with local procedures. These provisos were discussed and
agreed during the negotiations (para. 5.02).
3.21     Road maintenance equipment and workshop, laboratory, traffic and
training equipment would be procured through ICB in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. However, smaller items of specialized equipment rith
inadividual amounts not exceeding US$100,000 and up to a maximum of
US$500,000 in total, may be procured through procedures acceptable to the
Bank through LIB on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under Bank
Procurement Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in such
Guidelines.
3.22     Technical assistance for the various project items would be
provided by qualified consulting firms or individuals as appropriate,
engaged in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.23     All procurement documentation will be reviewed by the Bank before
being issued. However, for periodic maintenance works and workshop
buildings, this will be confined to a review of standard bidding documents
and of the procurement programs. Prior to contract award, and with the
exception of those for periodic maintenance works and workshop buildings,
all proposed contracts, together with the bidding analysis, will be subject
to Bank review. Periodic maintenance works and workshops buildings
contracts will be subject to post review. Prior review of contracts will
cover about 802 of the total value of works financed under the project.



- 23 -
During negotiations Government confirmed these procuremant arrangements
(para. 5.02). The table below gives a breakdown of the proposed project by
procurement method.
Procurement Table
(US$ million)1"
Procurement Method           Total
Project Element                    ICB       LC8     Other         Cost
1.       Road Works:
Rehabilitation               60.8                            60.8
(34.6)                          (34.6)
Periodic overlays                      10.9                  10.9
(6.9)                 (6.9)
2.       Equipment for:
Road maintenance             17.4                             17.4
(13.6)                          (13.6)
Workshops, lab, traffic
and training                5.5                 0.5         6.0
(4.3)              (0.4)        (4.7)
3.       Workshops buildings                         3.0                   3.0
(1.1)                 (1.1)
4.       Technical assistance and
training                                           2.4         2.4
(2.1)       (2.1)
Total Capital Costs             83.7       13.9      2.9        100.5
(52.5)     (8.0)    (2.5)       (63.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis indicate loan proceeds.
F. Implementation
3.24     Implementation of the improved highway maintenance and
rehabilitatfin programs, including the establishment and operation of the
regional workshops and related studies, will be the responsibility of the
DGPC. The project is expected to become effective in March 1988.
Execution of the Bank's financed components would be completed by
September 30, 1994, a total of about 6-1/2 years. The loan closing date is
scheduled for June 30, 1995.



- 24 -
3.25     The implementat!an schedule is shown in Annex 14 and was discussed
and confirmed with the Government during negotiations. Progress on the
project will be communicated to the Bank by means of quarterly progress
reports, the first one within three months of the date of loan
effectiveness. DGPC will also prepare a project completion report within
six months of the Loan Closing Date. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that DGPC will prepare and submit the quarterly reports and the
completion report (para. 5.02).
3.26     The highway maintenance and rehabilitation program annual plans of
operations will be submitted to the Bank by August 15, starting 1988, each
year. Through discussions between the Bank and Government, the Bank's
comments will then be taken into account by the Government in determining
both capital and recurrent budgets to be allocated to various items for the
subsequent year and then submitted to the Bank not later than February 15
the following year (para. 3.07). This was agreed at negotiations
(para. 5.02). Once the budget provisions have been decided by the
Government, the detailed program of periodic maintenance and
strengthening-rehabilitation works can be implemented. The project covers
five such annual cycles.
3.27     The preparation of the project is well advanced.  The road
maintenance program is detailed in the Action Plan (Annex 9). Economic
studies and detailed engineering are completed for the first year road
rehabilitation program. The human resources program has been extensively
studied (Annex 6) and for the studies and technical assistance, draft terms
of reference have been prepared (Project File).
G. Disbursements
3.28     Disbursements will be made on the basis of the estimated foreign
exchange component for:
(a) the 1988-92 rehabilitation program (57% of total
expenditures) and periodic overlays contracts program (63% of
total expenditures);
(b)  the construction (382 of total expenditures) of the regional
workshops;
(c)  the equipment (100% of foreign expenditures and 782 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally) for road
maintenance and for workshops, laboratory, traffic and
training; and
(d) the consultants services (83b of total expenditures) and the
overseas training (100% of total expenditures).



- 25 -
3.29     The disbursement schedule (Annex 15) has been developed from the
general implementation schedule (Annex 14). In addition to the formal
commitments under the loan, the high priority accorded by the Government to
the implementation of an improved maintenance program as well as a better
understanding of Bank's procurement guidelines by Government staff, should
ensure that the project will be implemented according to the agreed
schedule.
3.30     The forecast schedule of complete disbursement within 7-1/2 years
from Board approval has been compared with historic experience.  First, a
comparison with standard profiles (xnnex 15) shows that the project
forecast starts halfway between the Bankwide and regional subsector
profiles, and then accelerates to end up with the Bankwide standard
profile, a total of 8-1/2 years. Second, a comparison with previous Bank
financed highway projects in Tunisia confirms that these projects have
disbursed generally quicker than indicated by the regional profile. The
First Highway Project was disbursed in 6 years, the Second in 7-3/4 years
and the Third in 7-1/2 years. It is expected that the Fourth Highway
Project will be disbursed in 7-1/2 years. The Fifth Highway Project,
although of a different nature (rural roads project), has experienced a low
start-up but is now likely to catch up with the initial estimates and to be
fully disbursed in less than 8 years. The disbursement schedule is
therefore considered to be a realistic forecast.
3.31     Part of the proceeds of the Bank loan is proposed to be channeled
through a Special Account, covering all categories of disbursement, to be
established by the Government at the Central Bank of Tunisia on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The sum deposited into the special
account by the Bank will be US$3,000,000, approximating an eatimated four
months disbursement. Statements of expenditures would be used for
contracts valued at US$100,000 or less. During negotiations, agreement was
obtained that the Government establish such an account (para. 5.02).
H. Auditing
3.32     The project auditing procedure initiated under the Fifth Highway
(Rural Roads) Project (Loan 2108-TUN) will be continued under the present
project.  Under this procedure the Contr8le General des Finances, whose
independent status and quality and scope of audits have been found
acceptable to the Bank, will prepare annual audit reports covering project
related activities. Separate reports covering the Special Account and the
Statements of Expenditure will be prepared. The reports will be submitted
to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year.
These arrangements were agreed during negotiations (para. 5.02).



- 26 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01     The principal benefits stemming from an improved maintenance and
rehabilitation program are reduced vehicle operating costs. Since improved
and increased maintenance activities cover the whole classified and part of
the unclassified network, the benefits will accrue generally to all vehicle
owners, both private and public. Although the transport market has a fair
amount of regulation, the degree of competition that takes place (para.
1.05) makes it fair to assume that vehicle operating cost savings will be
largely passed on to the users. The road rehabilitation program would, for
the same reasons, benefit the users of the rehabilitated roads. Since
these works are fairly evenly spread over the country, no region would be
particularly favored.
4.02     Savings in avoided or delayed reconstruction is another benefit
due to the project that will accrue directly to the Government. The
strengthening of the organization and administration of DGPC should also
present substantial resource savings, especially in the mechanical
equipment area through increased availability and better use of existing
equipment and human resources.
B. Economic Analysis
General
4.03     Explicit economic analyses have been made separately for the road
rehabilitation and maintenance programs, within the framework of the Road
Maintenance Study, using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HRD) appropriately adapted to Tunisian conditions. Estimates of economic
benefits from reduced road deterioration and improved running surfaces take
into account only vehicle operating cost savings. Reduced accidents and
travel time savings have not been included in the analyses.
Road Rehabilitation
4.04     Under the Road Maintenance Study feasibility studies were carried
out for 584 km of proposed road rehabilitation works. The rehabilitation
works analyzed consisted of road widening, with or without pavement
strengthening or, in some cases, only pavement strengthening. Actual
traffic varies between 450 and 6,700 vehicles (ADT) with an average of
4,000. Annual traffic growth rates have been based on actually observed
past growth rates taking into account actual or proposed changes in the
network. Growth rates used vary between 4 and 10 p.a. Cost estimates
include necessary repairs and widenings to bridges. The analysis covers 15
years.



- 27 -
4.05     The ERR's are generally very high, between 30 and 1002 which is
common for this type of work.    The analyses show a generally only
marginally higher ERR for widening and strengthening as compared to
widening only. The results, together with some of the assumptions used,
are summarized in Annex 16. The first year program is shown in Annex 12.
Detailed description of methodology, assumptions and results are available
in the Project File (Annex 17).
Improved Road Maintenance
4.06     The economic analysis of the improved road maintenance program has
been carried out by comparing the condition and hence the associated costs
of the road network under the improved program with the conditions assuming
a continuation of present maintenance levels. The analysis has been
carried out over a 15-year period (1985-2000) using the HDM. For purposes
of analysis, the country was divided into three zones that are reasonably
homogenous with respect to geology, topography and climate. Within each
zone, four different classes of roads according to road width and traffic,
and hence different maintenance, have been treated separately. The actual
calculations have been carried out on a representative sample of the roads
in the different classes and zones and then weighted together to represent
the averages of the zones.
4.07     The maintenance program is well justified with internal rates of
return ranging from 28 to 482 depending on the zone. With a 202 increase
in costs combined with a 20% decrease in benefits, the corresponding rates
would be 19 and 32S.
4.08     The assumptions used regarding vehicle operating costs, traffic,
road conditions, etc. as well as details of the analysis are available in
the Project File.
C. Project Risk
4.09     The eccnomic analysis assumes that all the measures foreseen for
the improved maintenance program will be taken in a timely manner so that
efficiency increases are achieved. The most important factor to achieve
this is the timely availability of necessary funds. This is especially
important for the maintenance activities. Delays to the road
rehabilitation program would result in a substantial loss of benefits
during the period of delay. The high priority accorded by the Government
to the project, together with the monitoring procedures included in the
project, should reduce the risk of insufficient funds (para. 2.23).



- 28 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, the Go'ernment confirmed:
(a) the outline terms of reference for the consultant services
(para. 3.12);
(b) the project cost estimates (para. 3.13);
5.02     During loan negotiations, Government agreement was obtained:
(a) concerning the project objectives and description
(paras. 3.02, 3.03, 3.04);
(b) concerning the form and content of the Action Plan and that
Government will, through DGPC, carry out the actions in
accordance with the Action Plan (para. 3.07);
(c) that updated annual programs and budgetary allocations for
the road subsector, including maintenance, rehabilitation and
training, consistent with the Action Plan, be submitted to
the Bank by August 15 each year starting 1988, for review and
comment, prior to implementation during the following year
(paras. 2.23, 3.07, 3.26);
(d) that the Bank and Government review and discuss, not later
than February 15 each year, starting 1989, the documents
under (c) above in light of the approved annual budgets. The
Government will take all appropriate measures to carry out
these programs including the provision of adequate budgetary
allocations and taking into account the Bank's comments
(paras. 2.23, 3.07, 3.15, 3.26);
(e) that DGPC will, before calling for bids, submit the technical
and economic evaluation of rehabilitation subprojects for the
Bank's approval, according to the same methodology, criteria,
and procedures as agreed with the Bank under the Fourth
Highway Project, including an economic return of at least 12%
(para. 3.09);
(f) concerning procurement arrangements (paras. 3.20, 3.23);
(g) the project implementation schedule and reporting
requirements (para. 3.25);
(h) that the Government establish a Special Account of
US$3,000,000 in the Central Bank of Tunisia on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.31);



- 29 -
(i)  that the Contr8le Gkniral des Finances will prepare annual
audit reports covering project related activities with
separate reports for the Special Account and the Statements
of Expenditure. The reports will be submitted to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 3.32).
5.03     Conditions for Loan effectiveness would be
(a) establishment of the Training Directorate and appointment of
its director (para. 3.10);
(b) establishment of a Training Steering Committee (para. 3.10);
and
(c) establishment of the Road Maintenance Organization and
Methods Unit and appointment of its head (para. 3.06).
5.04     Subject to agreement on the above, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$63.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Tunisia
for a 17 year term including a four year grace period.



ANNEX 1
- 30 -                            Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.       To assist the Government in achieving its objectives in the
transport sector, the Bank has participated in nine transport projects
since 1964. The First and Second Highway Projects (Loan 746-TUN, 1971,
US$24 million and Loan 1188-TUN, 1976, US$28 million) focused on
modernization and rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads. The First
Highway Project was generally successful. However, the rehabilitation
component was cut back substantially because of high inflation and dollar
devaluation over the implementation period. Difficulties were encountered
with right-of-way acquisition and with road transport regulation and road
user taxation improvements (PPAR No. 2772, December 26, 1979).
Implementation of the Second Highway Project was delayed because of
problems of property acquisition and insufficient local financing. The
project was completed in March 1984 (PCR, June 25, 1984). Both highway
projects included technical assistance which encouraged the development of
several competent local consulting firms which now work closely with DGPC.
The Third Highway (Rural Roads) Project (Loan 1601-TUN, 1978, US$32
million) initiated the Government's program for improving rural roads by
providing financial assistance for an initial slice of about 1,100 km of
roads together with some coordinated agricultural investments in a
cross-section of the country's agricultural areas. Progress with the road
component was good throughout. The agricultural components suffered some
delays, especially regarding the credit aspects. The project was completed
in December 1986. A follow-up rural roads project, The Fifth Highway
Project (Loan 2108-TUN, 1982, US$35.5 million) is progressing well. It
continues the same general approach developed for the Third Highway
Project, that is, combining road improvements and complimentary
agricultural investments in integrated programs for specific rural roads
and the agricultural areas they serve. At the same time, continuity in the
Government's highway program and balanced development of the highway
network are being provided through the Fourth Highway Project (Loan
1841-TUN, 1980, US$36.5 million) which emphasizes rehabilitation of primary
and secondary roads and improved maintenance over the whole network. It
also addresses issues which had been identified to be of importance in the
previous highway projects, viz training and an improved organizational
structure for maintenance activities as well as improved sector wide
coordination. The project is foreseen to be completed in March 1988.



ANNEX 1
- 31 -                            Page 2 of 2
2.       Two small loans in the port subsector (Loan 380-TUN, 1964,
US$7 million, and Loan 573-TUN, 1969, US$8.5 million) provided support
facilities for port operation, mainly dredging, maintenance operations and
cargo handling equipment. Both these projects had an important institution
building impact (PPAR No. 1049, February 26, 1979). A Third Port Project
(Loan 1797-TUN, 1980, US$42.5 million) is assisting the Government in
modernizing berth facilities at the main ports of La Goulette and Sfax and
is providing support facilities for improved port operations. The First
Railway Project (Loan 606/Credit 150-TUN, 1964, US$17 million) included
renewal of track and purchase of railway equipment. It was completed in
1976 with a 100% time overrun (PPAR No. 2109, June 23, 1978). Although the
project was generally successfully implemented in its physical aspects, the
Borrower apparently did not share the objectives of key loan covenants,
especially the financial ones, and thus the financial performance
objectives were not realized.



ANNEX 2
- 32 -                              Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Petroleum Products Price Structure
The table below shows the prices of transportation fuels as of
March 1986 and the relationship between Tunisian internal prices and
comparators constructed by taking the c.i.f. price1/ of imports and
adding an allowance for internal transportation and distribution costs
equal to the actual distribution costs. The retail prices are well above
the comparators. All prices in US$/ton.
Ratio
Ex      Distri-                               Comparator/
refinery   bution            Retail                Retail
Product            price      costs    Taxes   price    Comparator  Price
Regular gasoline  381.85      55.67   368.85   806.37      387.31       0.48
Super gasoline    386.79      54.32   367.63   808.74      385.96       0.48
Gas oil           255.43      40.81    90.73   386.97      309.77       0.80
Fuel oil          179.45       6.15    78.06   263.67      184.96       0.70
1/    Mid November quotations.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE HIGHWAYS ADMINISTRATION
WITHIN THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER
I NSPECTION                             MINISTER'S
OFFICE
ADMINISTATIVE          STUDIES        [DIRECTOR              23 REGIONAL       [OTHER
AD FINANCIAL        PLANNING AND           GENERAL          PUBLIC WORKS         DEP6RTMENTS
DIRECTORATE          STATISTICS          HIGHWAYS          ADMINISTRATIONS    I     DAMS
DIRECTORATE         DEPARTMENT                               SE. ERMASE.
.________ ___ _______1                  ___ _ETC.)
tI  SROAD IADMINISTRATIVE                                                             LARAGE
AND                   MAINTENANCE         ~~ ~~~~EQUPENT  I LABORATORY                AND               PROJECTS
PROGRAMMING         DIRECTORATE       IIRCOAEDIRECTORATE                                              ACUTN                IETRT
DIRECTORATE                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICES
;ORGAN1I-ATION                   TRANIN
AND       .               DIRECTORATE
I -   -                                                                              oQ~~~--------
WORLD BANK 30549B                             C



REPUBUC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF A REGIONAL PUBUC WORKS ADMINISTRATION
RPON
WORKS
DIRECTOR
_  SECRETARIAT  1 
SUB-            ADMINISTRATIVE         TRANSPORT                                                       URBAN
DIRECTORATE             AND                I NFRA-                                  BIINoGS               NFRA-
STUDIESI                   ,I                                                     r __       N
AND CONTROL            SECITIt              SECTITw
STUDIES             REOIONAL
LABORATORL
L_      IRl
OTHER SECTIONS          GENIERAL
MECHANICAL             ROAD                 P PRTS             SERVICES                                   FORCE
EQUIPMENT          MAINTENANCE           -AIRPORTS          (BOOKEEPING.                                ACCOUNW
-FLOOD CNTL.            RIVERS'
POOL. ETC.)
REGRAVELLING  PATCHING    STR   URESMARKINGS                        TRANSPORT           EARTHWORK                     R
GROUP                                    GROUP                GROUP                GROUP               GROUP               OPCTOR l
. NOT FULLY DEVELOPPED IN ALL OF
tHL 23 GOVERNORATS (REGIONS).                                                                                                                 
WORLD BANK 30549A



- 35 -
-Jn-
Pae 1 ot 1
REPLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGIUYS MAINTENANCE MO RE4ABILITATII  jECT
CaRital and Recurrant Expenditures on Roads 1976-AS
(Current OT millions)
mi7    ti7       ioza    1iizls      8       198     t92    tun        iiii    urns
Capital expenditure
Construction                 8.93    14.57    11.44    13.09    16.75    20.93    19.70    28.30    33.90    37.80
Equipment                    1.99     0.24     0.31      0.36     0.70     0.75     2.55      3.70     2.4S     1.20
Sub total                10.92    14.81    11.75    13.45    17.45    21.68    22.2S    32.00    36.35    39.00
(Constant 1985 OT)              22.66    29.31    22.56    24.07    28.19    31.11    27.32    36.87    39.07    39.00
(USS million)                   32.37    41.87    32.23    34.33    40.27    44.44    39.03    52.67    S5.81    55.71
Recurrent Expenditure
(a)  Maintenance
Supplies/operations    1.92     2.12     2.37      2.S8     2.93     3.34     4.20     5.00      5.60     6.12
Labor                  2.10     2.31     2.68      2.94     3.44     3.94     5.3S     6.08     6.28      6.92
Sub total                 4.02     4.43     5.05      5.52     6.37     7.28     9.55    11.08    11.88    13.04
(Constant 1985 Ot)               8.34     8.7      9.69      9.88    10.29    10.45    11.73    12.77    12.77    13.04
(USS million)                   11.91    12.52    13.84    14.11    14.70    14.93    16.76    18.24    18.24    18.63
(b)  A4mihlstration
Salaries               0.75     0.95     1.16      1.56     1.79     0.69     0.97     1.07      1.10     1.38
Buildings              0.50     0.50     0.23      0.57     0.20     0.43     0.47     0.46      0.72     0.74
Sub total                 1.25     1.45     1.39      2.13     1.99     1.12     1.44    153       1.83     2.12
(Constant 1985 OT)               2.S9     2.87     2.67      3.81     3.21     1.61     1.77      1.76     1.97     2.12
(USS million)                    3.70     4.10     3.81      5.44     4.59     2.30     2.53     2.51      2.81     3.03
Sub total recurrent       5.27     S.68     6.44      7.65     8.36     8.40    10.99    12.61    13.70    15.16
(Constant 198S 0?)              10.93    11.64    12.36    13.69    13.50    12.06    13.50    14.53    14.74    15.16
(USS million)                   15.61    16.62    17.65    19.55    19.29    17.23    19.29    20.75    21.05    21.66
Grand total              16.19    20.69    18.19    21.10    25.81    30.08    33.24    44.61   S.OS    54.16
(Constant 1985 OT)              33.59    40.95    34.92    37.76    41.69    43.17    40.82    51.40    53.81    54.16
(USS million)                   47.98    58.49    49.88    53.88    59.56    61.67    58.32    73.42    78.86    77.37



ANNEX 6
- 36 -                             Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Human Resources Component
Generalities
1.       The Five-Year Training Plan has three objectives:
(a) strengthening the personnel management system;
(b) strengthening the training function; and
(c) providing DGPC with the qualified personnel required.
Strengthening the Personnel Management System
2.       The following results should be achieved at the end of the
implementation of the project:
(a)  organization:  listing and description of the functions,
activities and tasks of the personnel department (central
level) and personnel divisions (regional level), in view of
establishing for DGPC personnel management structures able
and capable of performing the administrative activities
related to personnel management, but also for planning,
organizing and implementing all the activities required by a
dynamic and modern personnel management system.
(b)  activities:  forecasting of manpower needs, planning and
organization of personnel recruitment, updating personnel
records and performance evaluation, organizing internal
promotion, and implementing measures aimed at better
performance and efficiency.
(c)  studies: the studies to be carried out aim at improving the
efficiency of services by bringing solutions to specific
problems such as lack of motivation, accidents at work, and
absenteeism. A survey of salaries offered by private and
public sectors should be performed and used as background
information.
(d)  liaison with environment: development of the necessary
relations with the Ministries in charge of manpower planning
and education, and organization of practical working periods
for students during their stud'es, etc.;



ANNEX 6
- 37 -                           Page 2 of 7
(e)  assignment and training of staff needed for the personnel
structures (at central and regional levels) as required for
the implementation of the regionalization: and
(f)  determination of the material and financial resources
required for the personnel structures.
Strengthening the Training Function
3.       The results to be achieved are the following:
(a) creating a training directorate;
(b) creating a steering committee; and
(c) creating two ad-hoc technical panels.
(A) Creating a Training Directorate
ii)    the responsibilities and activities of the directorate
are defined in the organization chart hereafter;
(ii)    the personnel to be assigned to the directorate is the
following:
Qualification                  Existing      Additional Needs         Total
1986    1987
Director (engineer)               1*                                     1
Engineer                                        2                        2
Assistant Engineer                                         1             1
Technician                                                 1             1
Draftsman                                       1                        1
Driver                                          2                        2
Secretary                         1             1                        2
Typist                                          1                        1
* Presently head of DGPC training unit.
(B) Creating a Steering Committee
This committee will be comprised of managers and engineers
representing the various DGPC directorates (design, road maintenance,
equipment and training). The head of personnel department (DAF) will be
member of this committee. The responsibilities of this committee are to
give the general outline of the Training Unit work program, approve the
training plan and programs prepared by this Unit, allocate the necessary



ANNEX 6
- 38 -                          Page 3 of 7
resources, analyze the results of the training actions, and define the
necessary measures to improve training. The members of this Committee will
meet at least once a year.
(C) Creating of ad-hoc Technical Panels
They will define all the technical information such as management
systems, procedures, specifications, standards, work methods, etc. to be
taught to the trainees. The members of these panels will be well qualified
personnel in their professional fields. At least two panels will be
created: one for road maintenance activities and one for equipment
management.
Training of DGPC Personnel
4.       The training plan will be based on the results of he DGPC
personnel inventory and evaluation. The existing personnel will be divided
into personnel untrainable, personnel trainable at actual post, and
personnel trainable in view of a new assignment. The tables below
summarize the training effort to be performed under the project (see
details in project file):
(a) Implementation schedule for the training plan for mechanical
engineering personnel;
(b) Training needs for road maintenance personnel;
(c) Training needs for mechanical engineering personnel.
Resources Required
5.       The project will finance the following:
(a) technical assistance: up to 76 man months for strengthening
personnel and training functions and preparing and
implementing the training plan, (10 additional man-months are
financed under the Fourth Highway Project);
(b) fellowships for engineers and other high level personnel (up
to 82 months);
(c) fellowships for local instructors (40 months);
(d) fees for lecturers who will give lectures to engineers and
middle level supervisors (11.5 months);
(e) inventory and professional evaluation of DCPC personnel, and
preparation and implementation of training programs to be
contracted to existing local vocational/training
institutions; and
(f) equipment, didactic materials and others.



TUNISIA
Organization of Training Directorate
- Management of the Directorate.
Director             - Member of the Steering Committee.
(Comite de Formation et de Perfect-
ionnement)
- Liaison with agencies outside MEH in
charge of training of personnel.
- Liaison with vocational education
and training institutions in Tunisia
and in foreign countries.
- Organization of seminars.
- Organization of fellowship programs.
- Establishment and implementation of
a training monitoring system.
Administrat-
Training Unit                               taio   anivle & Accoun- 
fJiesUntt                                      Itina Unit
Personnel Mana _ nt
-  Establishment of systems for              - Gathering and circulation                   - Budget preparation.
inventory and professional                  of information.                             - Accounting.
evaluation of personnel.                  - filing of documentation.                    - Cost accounting.
-  Inventory and professional                - filing of training material                 - Administrative
evaluation of personnel.                    and aids.                                     follow-up of
-  Recruitment of personnel:                 - Filing of testing results                     trainees sent for
o preparation of tests.               - Editing of didactic materials.                 fellowships.
o organization of testing
and results.
Trainina of Personnel
- Preparation of training plans
and proorams.
- Implementation of training
prograos.
- Follow-up of training actions
contracted.
- Evaluation of training results.
0%



TRAINING PLAN FOR MECHANICAL ENGINEERING PERSONNEL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Codes           Activity-Tasks               I    1987  N      1988    1   1989           1991991                    1992
I~~~~ JMMJSN,   MJS   IJMMJS IM J s        J   1 J s    a M  J  SI|J M m J S N
1     Preparati on of doc,umnts
la    Form for personnel inventory
lb    Tests for evaluation of
personnel skills
2     Personnel inventorv and evaluation assianed to:                                                                                     41
2a    Main workshop (S.E.M. MADAGADCAR)         =
2b    Workshops performing repairs up
to level 3 under responsibility
of workshops responsible of          Tunis         Gabes          Sfax      Bizerte
repairs at level 4                   ==            ==             ==        ==
2c    Analysis of results=-==
3     Personnel manaaeemrent
3a    Transfers
3b    Recruitment
4     Trainina oroaranr
4a    Preparation
4b    Inplementation
4c    Evaluation
_ I J~~~~~~~~~ M M  J S N  |IJ M M J S N IJ M M  J S N 1J M M  J S NS (J  M J S It  J   M J S  N;
0
I.,'



MAO lNAINTENUAICE PERSONNEL
TRINING NEEDS
ExSstinat Personnel          _   Total            Additional oersonnmel
Post                     Untrain- Well Qualified-1rainino            Personnel     Rectmej.t        I   Tranin
_rTntal   ahqte  INo. _Descrintionl   eeds    No. Oual1ficat1 nst llo.  Dersciatoig
-L: 2x2 w/y
Engineer S.I.T.              23                  k3         23   -F: lw/2yrs.    23        0                     0
Engineer Specialist                                                                7       7   Eng. ENIT         7   F + L
Assistant Engineer S.I.T.    0                              23   ditto above      23      23   Eng. ENIT        23   Induction:
1 month
Administrattve offices        0                             23                    23      23   graduates          To be defined
from ENA          after recruit-
ment.
Head of section
road maintenance          18    tests required           15   as head of       23  )  43                       To be defined
sector              )                           after recruit-
works by force                                                                     )                           ment.
accounts                                                                       23  )
Head of sector              113                    8        80   To be defined  128       1S   head of            To be defined
after testing             +   sector            after recruit-
of personnel             25                     ment.
Head of brigade              38        4           4        30                    46      12   equipment          To be defined
operator          after recruit-
ment,
Head of gang
(bridges, asphalt            82       25                    57                   107      50   Educational &      ditto above
patching)                                                                      (23 t         vocational
84)          education &
driving license
Equipment Operator          500      140         142        12   as head of      314        No recruitment
brigade                   needed. Transfers
208                              might be necessary.
Helper to the Equipment                                                                   84                      ditto above
Operator
Servicing 1lan              125                   SO        75                   SOg     384                      ditto above
Oriver                      409      204         164                             406      38                      ditto above
Bricklayer and Supervisor  100                    40        60                    79        No recruitment
needed. Transfers
might be necessary.
Painter                                                                           23
Quantity Surveyor            19                                                   46      27                      ditto above
Administrative Staff         19                                                   72
Typ- ;t                                                                           69                                                        ch
Laworer                                                                          974                                                        0
L: Locally trained - F: Fellowship abroad -: Week - Y: Year
All training will be implemented locally except for engineers and assistant engineers who  will be granted fellowships
abroad.



tFtMW lll; II61EEOSIC IF
IExst1  Z                ~~~~total   _    Add itiona  Pqfl~
Post                     bUntratn-J*11111t1dl             Tratnt      pPe    r rsoelit                I      1na        I
. t~~B                      et        l      a hl9     o.qeieL       e I  .    Ilulfet NOXerDt
Egineer
worksho  level 5              2                             2        F           S                                 f + L
5wosStp level 4                                                                  4       4        EnL. EMIT    4   F + L
Inspector
w*sh  level S                         2                     4      F o l         4
2 to be transfer-
red to w ksh
level 4
workshop level 4                                                                12       2   lstector from    2
workshop level S
10                   10   f + L
Assistant engineer
workshop level 5              2                             2       r + L        3       1    Econoist         1   f * L
Head of workshop
workshop level S              6       3                     3         L          6       3   Highly quali-    3   F + L
fIed workers
workshop level 4              2                             2         L          4       2   Internal
Drosot10n             L 
workshop level 3             17                             6 +       L         22    10-16  P
Technicians
workshop lvel S               7                             7         L          7
workshop level 4              1                             1         L          4       2                     3   L
Head of warethouse
workshop level 4              2                             2         L          4       2                     2   L
Head of section
workshop level 5              6                             6         L          6
workshop level 3             23   Testing required                              23        Based on tests results
mechanics
workshop level 5             57                            57         L         64       7    )      rrade
workshop level 4             27                            17         L         79      55    )      Test
workshop level 3            297                           III         L        235      36    )
He7pers                                                                           98      45
Oriver
workshop level 3             13                             6         L         23      11
Administrative Staff
workshop level 3              4                             2         L         23      19
L: Locally trained - F: Fellowship abroad - W: Week - Y: Year                                                                                 m
WorkshoPs level: 3 - servicing & removal of components; :4
4   replacement of wearing parts and minor repairs;                                                                         0
S   major repairs are Performed including overall of equipment.



ANNEX 7
- 43 -                              Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DGPC Design Criteria
A.       Geometric Desi8n Standards
The basic criterion is the design speed of the road, which is
chosen considering traffic, terrain, function, etc. Examples of standards
for design speeds of 100 and 80 km/h are shown in the following table:
Design Speed
Unit       100 km/h      80 km/h
1.   Max. gradient                 S            5.0             6.0
2.   Width of carriageway          m            7.0             7.0
3.   Width of shoulders            m            3.0             3.0
4.   Min. horizontal curves        m            900             650
5.   Min. vertical curves
- Summit                      m         l7,0OO         10,000
- Sag                         m          4,200          3,000
6.   Max. single axle load       ton             12              12
7.   Bridge width                  m          lO.50m with 7.00m carriageway
B.       Pavement Design Standards
Pavement design is based on a "Catalogue of Pavement Structures
for New Construction and Strengthening," itself established from (i) the
AASHO-TRRL empirical methods as regards the basic relationships; and (ii)
the LCPC (French Laboratoire Central des Ponts et Chaussees) rational
method as regards the stress and strain verifications. A rather thorough
study of materials and pavement behavior, carried out under the Fourth
Highway Project, has led inter alia to the following conclusions that were
taken into account in the establishwmnt of the catalogue:
(a) the geo-climatic factor is very important, and it is
essential to distinguish the different regions of the
country, from the northern part where moisture can cause soil
saturation problems to the southern part where Saharan
conditions can be found and the evaporation-precipitation
balance is never negative;



- 44 -                    ~~~~~ANNEX 7
- 44                  ~              Page 2 of 2
(b) as far as axle loading is concerned, the results of surveys
carried out in 1983 under the Maintenance Study showed that
overall overloading was not a big problem. The average
number of standard (8.2 tons) axles per commercial truck was
about 2.5, and pavements were bearing less than 1 million
standard axles in 501 of cases, and less than 5 millions
standard axles in 701 of cases. This moderate overloading
explains that most of the recommended designs are based on
flexible pavements.



A.NNEX 8
45                              Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Maintenance Organization and Operations
1.       Apart from lack of funds and insufficient training the principal
constraints to better road maintenance are: (i) a weak management and
organization, due to the fact that the maintenance organization has had to
adapt itself to the national policy of decentralization put into effect in
1982, which increased the number of Regional Road Directorates from 11 to
23 without specific changes at the central level; and (ii) a lack of
long-term planning. After a short description of current maintenance
operations, this annex deals with the improvements proposed for the
organization and planning of maintenance activities.
Operations
2.       Routine maintenance is done by force account.  Each Regional Road
Unit has several patching crews for pothole repairs and maintenance of
drainage facilities, several reprofiling crews for gravel roads and paved
road shoulders, one bridge maintenance crew and one road sign crew. Work
is satisfactory for the pavement, but insufficient for ancillaries,
shoulders, ditches and culverts, traffic signs. Improvement is expected
through: (1) strengthening of patching crews and (ii) provision of more
adapted materials and equipment - adequate painting for pavement striping,
small vibrating cylinders instead of heavier rollers, mixers to introduce
use of dense asphalt concrete for patching, dump trucks, etc.
3.       Periodic maintenance is being carried out by force account except
for asphaltic concrete overlays which are executed by contract. Each
Regional Road Unit has one hauling crew, one earth moving crew, and one
compacting and surface dressing crew. Equipment of these crews is often
incomplete, especially for the supply of bitumen to some remote
governorates. Use of cutback 400/600 as binder for surface dressing seems
adequate, in view of the level of traffic and the capability of the crews.
Surface dressing is generally performed satisfactorily, but regravelling of
gravel roads and paved roads shoulders is quite insufficient. Asphaltic
concrete overlay programs are often cancelled, due to lack of funds in the
budget, thus increasing the maintenance backlog for the most trafficked
roads. Globally, this periodic maintenance system has proven to be able to



ANNEX 8
- 46 -                           Page 2 of 5
minimize the consequences of underfunding, and no change is recommended but
improvement will be sought through: (i) complementary equipment purchase;
(ii) more emphasis on regravelling; and (iii) greater insistence on
adequate funding for overlays. Rehabilitation is done by contract except
for works on small sections (widening, strengthening, etc.) whicl. are done
by the periodic maintenance crews.
4.       Road building materials are usually available within reasonable
hauling distance, but quality is very variable, requiring careful selection
at the quarry to avoid weathered, substandard material (DGPC has
inventoried about 100 quarry sites, of which 70 are currently exploited,
leading to an average 80 km haulage). Tuffs, or calcrete materials, are
found in abundance in the Southern part of the country and the use of these
low-grade materials in road base will be improved under the project (a
study of road building properties and specifications of tuffs is being
carried out under the ongoing Fifth Highway Project). Bitumen is imported
(grade 80/100 and 40/50) and locally processed when needed for special
purposes (cut-backs 0/l and 400/600, emulsions). Quality is checked by
DGPC which has the equipment for full testing of bitumen.
Organization
5.       Improvement of the organization is based on the following:  i)
effective understanding and distribution of responsibilities between
central and regional services; ii) clearer distinction between operational
and functional roles; and iii) better follow-up of maintenance programs
execution. At the central level two services are concerned: The Road
Maintenance and Operation Directorate, which must be strengthened to be
able to meet the totality of its functional responsibilities (para. 6), and
the Equipment Maintenance Directorate (para. 7). At the regional level,
the Road Units within the Regional Directorates have now the main
operational role as far as maintenance tasks are concerned and they also
need to be strengthened to fulfill their roles (Annexes 3 and 4 show the
charts of the organization).
6.       A strengthening of the Road Maintenance and Operation Directorate
is required particularly with respect to continuous inspection of road
conditions and giving professional assistance to the regions. This will be
done through the establishment of two specific units under that
Directorate, the Inspection Unit and the Organization and Methods Unit.
The central role of the Organization and Methods Unit is threefold:
(a) improving methods and guidelines: analyze data from the
maintenance operations cost accounting to derive improved
working methods, maintenance procedures and technical
guidelines;
(b) coordination and technical assistance: coordinate with the
Equipment Maintenance Directorate and the Training
Directorate in order to assess the needs and monitor the
implementation of the maintenance program, and provide
professional guidance;



ANNEX 8
- 47 -                           Page 3 of 5
(c)  programming and cost analysis:  prepare the annual work
program in relation with the structural condition surveys
carried out by the Laboratory, follow-up and up0ate cost
accounting and cost analysis.
Regarding provision of professional guidance, the Organization and Methods
Unit is associated with the Inspection Unit which receives feed-back from
the Regional Units.
7.       Since the main problems in the equipment maintenance organization
have been identified as insufficient level of task definition, of control,
of equipment performance monitoring and of training, the project will seek
to address these problems through:
(a) establishing 5 levels of equipment maintenance. Levels 1, 2
and 3 handle daily checks, station service visits and minor
repairs to be done in the regional workshops. Level 4 is
responsible for important repairs involving engine subset
replacements. There will be four such level 4 workshops in
Tunis, Bizerts, Sfax and Gabes, each one in charge of five to
six Regional Equipment Units. Finally level 5 is responsible
for major repairs. The single level 5 workshop is to be
based in Tunis;
(b) developing the functions of inspection within the Regional
Road Units as well as within the Equipment Maintenance
Division;
(c) improv4ng within the Equipment Maintenance Division the
tracking and monitoring of operating costs with a view to get
better evaluation of each piece of equipment and have a
better documented purchasing policy, and also improving the
inventories management;
(d) training technicians, mechanics, operators. This is a
crucial issue, since the existing staff is far from meeting
the needs, quality-wise and quantity-wise, of the new
five-level set-up.
Planning
8.       Planning of maintenance activities is currently done on an annual
basis and tailored to budget allocations rather than based on clearly
defined objectives. Long-term planning could be introduced through a
maintenance management system which would make the best use of what funds
are available and give DGPC management the means to convince Government
that Aore funds to road maintenance are in the country's best interests.
To achieve this, the use of the Bank's HDM model has been very useful since
the costs and benefits of alternative maintenance strategies can be clearly
demonstrated, and the desirable intervention points for common maintenance
operations firmly established and accepted.



ANNEX 8
- 48 -                           Page 4 of 5
9.       The HDM model has been in use in Tunisia for several years and
refinement of the model to better suit the local conditions was part of the
terms of reference of the Road Maintenance Study financed under the Fourth
Highway Project. Three submodels were mainly concerned: the vehicle
operating cost submodel (for economic calibration), the exogenous benefits
and costs submodel (to take account of specific benefits derived from road
widening), and the road deterioration submodel. As regards the latter,
predicted progression of cracking proved to be too pessimistic, and the
submodel was adjusted by reducing roughness progression to take account of
the arid to semi-arid climate of the country.
Once all these calibration adjustments were made the predictions
generally compared very favorably with the observed condition data.
10.      Different maintenance strategies and alternatives were tested (as
explained in Chapter IV, Economic Evaluation) and the results are
summarized below:
(a) as regards surface-dressed pavements, the proposed
maintenance policy appears on the chart in next page:
following different classes of geographic/climatic region,
traffic, and road width, the chart gives the optimal
frequency of surface dressing and patching operations;
(b) as regards asphaltic concrete pavements, the recommended
policy is one overlay every 10 years and annual patching on
an average 1% of pavement area;
(c) in any case it is assumed that adequate maintenance of
ancillaries and drainage is performed: this is considered a
sine-qua-non condition of validity of the model;
(d) as regards widening/strengthening, no general policy is
proposed except that a specific analysis should be carried
out in each case. However a general approach based on road
condition/width/traffic leads to the conclusion that about
1200 km may be concerned, of which 800 km are suitable for
rehabilitation and thus included in the present project, and
400 km need further analysis. Therefore it can be assumed
that the present backlog may be eliminated in eight years.
11.      The use of HDM as a tool for the maintenance management system
should become routine, since the program broadly defined above has to be
reviewed and refined each year. This is expected through: (i) inventory
updating; (ii) regular visual inspection and structural condition survey;
and (iii) periodic traffic and axle load survey. None of these tasks are
new in Tunisia but they have to be carried out on a regular basis and
within the framework of a well defined maintenance strategy. The project
will provide for training and technical assistance for this purpose.



_ 49_               ANNEX 8   Page 5 of 5
A   (WORo OVU ST I                           B  I cCtRe.NOfocs1T)
A*> (m o no.0 ovoL w son.u, _
Tug    s        1           i
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -
LI   10asLI
....                1 *    7. .9 a6s 1 
L3    ~ ~ ~ ~~*LS    *..*
en a    *%                                    ans
C     (CENT4RE OUEST.SD
L I
Ians
LI           10   s
LS ..... _
J                                                                                I



- 50 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Action Plan
1.       This Annex describes the overall investment, maintenance and
consultancy services program, details of the first year's program, and
procedures for subproject processing.
A. Road Rehabilitation
2.       The program will be prepared annually according to methodology
agreed with the Bank. The following actions shall be completed by the
dates specified below:
Approve the first tranche (168 km)              November 30, 1987
and the second tranche (144 km)
*Start bidding process                           December 15, 1987
*Evaluate and award contract                     May 15, 1988
*Start construction                              June 15, 1988
*Evaluate the next tranche                       August 31, 1988
*Approve bidding documents                       October 31, 1988
Such road rehabilitation works shall be carried out in accordance
with the timetable and physical targets set forth in the table below:
Road Rehabilitation
Unit   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
By contracts                  km     312    168    160    160
By force account for
works of limited scope        km      60      65     70     75      80
*/       For actions marked with an asterisk, the same timetable will be
followed for each year thereafter.



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
B. Maintenance Management System
3.       The program will be prepared annually.  The two tables at the end
of this Annex present:
(a) the physical targets to be reached for each year of the
project; and
(b) the staffing in engineers and technicians needed for the
implementation of the maintenance management system.
4.       In terms of organization, works and equipment, the following
actions shall be completed by the dates specified below:
(a) Road Maintenance:
Complete invitation and award for
technical assistance within the
organization and method unit             March 15, 1988
Establish an inspection unit
within DGPC                               April 30, 1988
*Periodic asphaltic concrete overlays:
prepare specs and bidding documents      November 30, 1987
complete bidding and award contracts    March 15, 1988
start works                              April 15, 1988
*Strengthen the road equipment
maintenance and applied research
activities of DGPC at the central         January 31, 1988
level and of DGPC units at the
regional level by appointing appro-
priate number of engineers and
technicians
Approve bidding documents for
the acquisition of weighing equipment
for axle load control                    March 31, 1988
*Prepare the annual maintenance program   August 15, 1988
(b) Equipment Maintenance:
Establish the five-level set-up
of the equipment organization            January 1, 1988
Complete invitation and award for
technical assistance within the Equip-
ment Maintenance Directorate at DGPC    March 15, 1988
Complete workshops building
and equipping:
in Tunis region                        September 30, 1988
in Sfax region                         September 30, 1988
in Gabes region                        September 30, 1989
in Bizerte region                      September 30, 1989



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
(c) Laboratory:
*Approve bidding documents for the
acquisition of equipment for the
central laboratory                        March 31, 1988
Complete invitation and award for
technical assistance within DRAL         April 30, 1988
Approve bidding documents for the
acquisition of equipment for the
regional laboratories in Gabes-Sousse,
Sfax-Lekef, Gafsa and Tunis               June 30, 1988
Such road maintenance works shall be carried out in accordance
with the timetable and physical targets set forth in table below:
Actual    ---Project Targets--
Activity                    Unit   1986      1988      1990     1992
1. Routine Maintenance
1.1 Paved roads
- Patching                       m2  390,470  400,000  450,000  500,000
- Ancillaries and drainage       km       524      550       575      600
- Shoulders grading              km   10,910   16,000   25,000   32,000
- Hydraulic structures           U        402      400       450      500
- Signalization:
- Pavement striping            km       263      800       900    1,000
- Signs installation or
restoration                U     7,044    7,500    8,000    9,000
1.2 Unpaved roads
- Grading of earth roads
and gravel roads             km   35,240   36,000   38,000   46,000
- Ancillaries and drainage
on gravel roads              km                500      600       700
- Hydraulic structures
on gravel roads              U                 200      300       400
2. Periodic Maintenance
- Asphaltic concrete             km       40.5      70        75       80
- Surface dressing               km       543      725      800       900
- Paved road shoulders
regravelling                 km      509       500      600       800
- Unpaved road regravelling      km        14.5    200      500       800
* For actions marked with an asterisk, a similar timetable will be followed
for each year thereafter.



- 53 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
C. Training
In connection with the training activities to be carried out under
the Project, on October 22, 1986 MEg signed a contract with OFPP.
Furthermore the following actions will be undertaken:
Complete invitation and award for
technical assistance within Training
Directorate                                    March 15, 1988
Appointment of 2 engineers, and establishment
of 2 technical training panels within the
Training Directorate                           March 31, 1988
*Approve bidding documents for the
acquisition of training equipment              March 31, 1988
D. Staffing
The DGPC at central level and DGPC units at the regional level will be
strengthened by the appointment of engineers and technicians in appropriate
number in accordance with the timetable set forth in the table below:
Professionals to be recruited by Service
DESIGNATION               1987       1988      1989       1990       1991      1992      Total
E  AE  T  E  AE  T  E IE  T  E  AE  T  E  AE  T  E  AE  T  E  AE  T
Road Maintenance
and Operation Direc-
torate                1 1 l   2 1        4 1 2   2  1 11           1  1  2            7 6   9
Laboratory                          2 2    2 2          1  2      1          1           7 4   2
Equipment maintenance
Directorate                      6 1    3 3        3  3      3          3             12  1  12
Training Directorate   2              2    2                                             2  2   2
Regional road
units                                         6          6         6          5          23
Total                  _31    1  1016   116   8  5        5   9   4 1   7   4  3  5    128 36  25
E a Engineer     AE = Assistant Engineer       T a Technician



- 54 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
Proiect Monitoring
(a) A Project Coordinator shall be designated by March 31, 1988.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank by August 15 each year
starting 1988, updated annual programs and budgetary
allocations for the road subsector including maintenance and
rehabilitation, consistent with the Action Plan for review
and comment, prior to implementation during the following
year. Not later than February 15 each year beginning in 1989
the Bank and Government will review and discuss these
programs in light of the approved annual budget. The
Government will take all appropriate measures to carry out
these programs, inclu,ing the provision of adequate budgetary
allocations and taking into account the Bank's comments
(c) Progress reports shall be submitted each quarter starting
with July 31, 1988. Such reports should report on:
(i)    road maintenance;
(ii)    highway rehabilitation;
(iii)    procurement of maintenance equipment and materials,
workshops facilities, traffic and laboratory equipment;
(iv)    training;
(v)    consultancy services;
(vi)    each section of the quarterly report should give
highlights of the previous quarter including problems
encountered, action taken, results achieved etc.;
(vii)    each report should include forecasts of progress for the
current quarter identifying potential problems and
action proposed to overcome those problems;
(viii)   status of commitments and disbursements including a
review of estimated progress (see SAR) against actual
progress.



- 55 -
AM=13 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTEACE AND RMEAILITATIN  PRJCT
Equpmetand Buildints R igM~tsa"'
(costs in DT'OOO, without contingencies)
A. Road Maintenance Equipment to be PurEcase
Unit           Estimated
Number                 Item                 Cost            Total Cost
(DTooo0)          (DT'OOO)
51               * Grader                  115.1            5,870.1
19               . Sprayer 450 1             6.4              121.6
12               . Bitumen distributor
9000 1                 63.5              762
29               . Dump truck 10/12 T       41              1,189
51               a Utility vehicle           5.9              300.9
14               . Van                      12.7              177.8
8               . Pick-up truck            10                 80
74               . Roller 1 T               18              1,332
13               . Road tractor 38 t        57                741
5               . Trailer 38 t             32                160
9               . Bitumen tanker 20 t    S5                  495
1               . Generator/set            32.2               32.2
1               . 4 WD truck (snow)        63                 63
2               . Wheel loader            123                246
9               . Pavement marker          27                243
1               . Motor broom               6.4                6.4
2               . Track type loader        90                180
Total                             12,000
1/ These lists are a current estimate subject to modification during the
course of project impler'entation.



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
B. Workshops Facilities
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     Total
Land acquisition                             (100)                       (100)
Buildings IVth level        320      320      315                         955
Buildings IlIrd level       215      215      215       215      215    1,075
Building Vth level           50                                            50
Equipment Vth level         152                                           152
Equipment IVth level         97       97      195                         389
Equipment IIIrd level       210      210      210       210      210    1,050
Total                 1,044       842      935      425       425    3,671
C. Laboratory Equipment
- Central Laboratory                                       100
- Inter-regional Laboratory                                300
- Regional Units                                           120
Total C                   520
D. Traffic Equipment
- Signalling (traffic signs, paint, etc.)                  750
- Operation (traffic lights, weighing systems, etc.)       490
Total D                  1240
E. Training Equipment
- Didactic equipment for Training Directorate              100
- Equipment for Training Centers                           400
Total E                   500



- 57 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads to Rehabilitate. Provisional List
Location            Route No.                 PK to PK          Length (km)
Tunis, Ariana and        GP.   5               5.00   -   10.60          5.60
Ben Arous                GP.  10              11.70   -   16.70         5.00
MC.  33             12.60   -   17.20          4.60
MC.  33 Et           0.00   -    2.00          2.00
MC.  33 E3           4.75   -    5.75          1.00
RVE. 544              2.45   -    5.85          3.40
21.60
Nabeul                   MC.  26              32.00   -   41.00          9.00
Jendouba                 GP.   6              93.30   -  105.00        11.70
GP.  17             48.00   -   65.40         17.40
2'. 10
Le Kef                   GP.  12             166.00   -  170.00         4.00
181.00   -  188.00         7.00
197.00   -  203.25         6.25
GP.  17             78.00   -   98.00         20.00
114.40   -  131.50        17.10
MC.  71              1.60   -   38.00         36_ _
90.75
Siliana                  GP.   4              47.50   -   65.75         18.25
67.55   -   99.60        32.05
GP.  12            153.00   -  157.50          4.50
GP.  18              9.20   -   14.50          5.30
MC.  47             35.50   -   64.80         29.30
MC.  71             58.00   -   70.00         12.00
90.75



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
Location          Route No.               PK to PK         Length (km)
Zaghouau               GP.  3             60.00   -  108.30       48.30
Kairouan               GP.  2             72.00   -   93.00       21.90
GP.  3           108.30  -  194.60        86.30
MC. 99             3.00   -    9.20        6.20
114.40
Monastir               MC. 82             34.00   -  54.00        20,00
Mahdia                 MC. 82             54.00   -   99.00       45.00
Sfax                   GP.  1            240.00   -  261.50       21.50
282.00   -  375.50      93.50
GP.  13            0.00   -   75.00       75.00
190.00
Sidi Dousid            GP. 13             75.00   -  82.00         7.00
133.00   -  154.00      21.00
28.00
Kasserine              GP. 13            154.00   -  165.00       11.00
Gabes                  GP.  1            375.50   - 454.00        78.50
Medenine               GP.  1            454.00   - 474.00        20.00
Total                                                      807.05 km



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
First Year Road Rehabilitation Program
Adopted         ERR
Road              Section          Length (km)         solution        _
GP 1        352.0   -   361.0           9.0              E             78
361.0   -   362.5          1.5              E + R         87
362.5   -   383.0         20.5              E             78
383.0   -   394.0         11.0              E + R        100
394.0   -   402.0          8.0              E            142
402.0   -   408.5          6.5              E + R        208
Sub total                        56.5
GP 3         60.0   -    75.0          15.0              E             62
116.5   -   142.0         25.5              E             48
142.0   -   162.0         20.0              E + R        118
162.0   -   194.7         32.7              E             69
Sub total                        93.2
GP 5          5.0   -    10.6           5.6              E + R        134
GP 10        11.7   -    16.7           5.0              E + R         66
MC 33 E 3      4.75  -     5.75         1.0              E + R         88
NC 99          3.0   -     9.2          6.2              E + R        176
Total                           167.5 km
(1)  1:  Wideniag only; E + R:  Widening + Strengthening



STAff *DAICSMO ll3t
*mev5,PAI.SIIuF AmPPRAISALTT*TOU PV JE
(mdllion OT1
Item                         nu ost  2"    Iml 2                                           OS iIP,.L  S           TIM N                  COE CUTICG.      TOTAL PROJECT COST    USS  ilion
capital Costs                                                                     LWAI FEraien            L2"1 rwei   Total  Local ncvrei   Total  Local frniren  Total    eftvalent
Rehabilitation               7.71      7.71      7.71       7.71       9.51       17.3S  22.99  40.14    1.73    2.20    4.03    2.61    3.45    6.06  21.69   28.7S   S0."4        60.77
Asphaltic concrete overlays   1.SS      1.55     l.SS       1.SS       1.11        2.71    4.61    7.32    0.27   0.46    0.73    0.37   0.64    1.01    3.3S    S.71   9.06        10.91
Wrksips buildings            O.SS      O.S      0.54       0.20       0.23        1.Z7    0.78    2.05    0.13    0.08    0.20    0.15    0.09   0.24    1.5S    0.95    2.49       3.00
fquj ent for laboratory      0.61      0.49      0.61       0.41       1.73        0.85    3.00    3.85    0.00    0.30    0.38    O.1S    O.S4   0.69    1.08    3.84    4.92       5 91
wrkshops. traffic t
training
Road Zintenance esipnt    2.20         4.4U      4.30       1.10       0.00        2.64    9.36   12.00    0.26   0.94    1.20    0.28    0.99    1.28   3.18   11.29   14.4S       17.44     g
Consulting services           0.28      0.35     0.29       0.24       0.1S        0.22    1.09    1.32    0.02    0.11    0.13    0.0:   0.14    0.17   0.27    1.34    1.62        I.9S
Overseas traintng           0.06       o.L o     .L o.L*2              L           0.L      CIS o.gf       L_      LU    LB0 0 04    S oo   O     O  0.00    0.44    044             O.S3
BASE COSTS                  12.94      15.12    1S.08      11.30      12.78       25.03   42.19   67.22    2.50    4.22    6.72    3.59    S.90    9.49   31.13   S2.31   83.44    1OO.S3
Physical contingencies        1.29      1.S5     l.St       1.13       1.28        2.50    4.22    6.72
Price contingencis           0.56    1J.J       2..2         2.22      _           L.S    S."    .4
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS          14.79     17.97     10.61     14.65      17.41       31.13   52.31   63.44
USt million esivalent        17.82     21.65    22.43      17.65      20.98       37.50   63.03  10O.S3
0q0 
to id0
tD -
_I XA



REPIAUC OF TUnMA
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPWR
HIGHWAYS MANTENANCE AND REHA1fTAION PROJECT
Pr9t        emWtaMon SdheduIS
OUBSO Vw" -m                                   "O          m ..                                                    .
4-f                                        IV            IV  I  11awI  a                         I el2 '2  I a  el tv  11 th 1 a    t I I I    I
axio                                                                      .......                              Di -. .        ......*.       .   -.-..*a.-       *
N. P 
IMM" & evakxftn                  a~~~~ mm-                  i                 -- -         -       ---        s~.
*                                                                                                                                   Kpco
Lob. ftp*mw
sp   b  -on
*kk 6 am  & &ow                               mo
O$jisw& 
atwsa mxxaw~~~I 
*    TVWnn-                                                                           -  -   - i              m  m.                    . .
* hft & PuaM00
fv*Wavm &Amoaxm-                                                     is-in-          i                -      --



- 62 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursements
and End of Quarter                         at End of Quarter
(US$ million)
FY88
June 30, 1988                                   0.4
FY89
September 30, 1988                              0.7
December 31, 1988                               1.9
March 31, 1989                                  3.4
June 30, 1989                                   5.0
FY90
September 30, 1989                              8.2
December 31, 1989                              10.7
March 31, 1990                                 14.1
June 30, 1990                                  17.0
FY91
September 30, 1990                             20.2
December 31, 1990                              23.3
March 31, 1991                                 26.7
June 30, 1991                                  29.4
FY92
September 30, 1991                             32.4
December 31, 1991                              34.9
March 31, 1992                                 38.8
June 30, 1992                                  44.1
FY93
September 30, 1992                             46.4
December 31, 1992                              48.8
March 31, 1993                                 52.9
June 30, 1993                                  55.2
FY94
September 30, 1993                             56.4
December 31, 1993                              58.3
March 31, 1994                                 59.3
June 30, 1994                                  60.4
FY95
September 30, 1994                             60.9
December 31, 1994                              62.0
March 31, 1995                                 62.5
June 30, 1995                                  63.0



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
% of loan                                HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
amount                                                DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
100
90 0-                                                                                  0
80  _                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT  /  /  
80
70
60
STANnARD DISBURSEMENT PPOFILES:
(OCTOBER 1985)
5j,0                                                                                     (A) - FOR EMENA REGION HIGHWAYS
/   /                           ~~~~~~~~(B) - FOIR BANKWIDE HIGHWAYS
40
30
10-                                               Years from Board approval
/ w /   2    3             4             5            6              7            8             9
FY88    FY89          FY90           FY91         FY92           FY93         FY94         FY95           FY96
FY89  FY90  FY91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 64 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILZTATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Program for S84 km of Roads
Widening
Regional                                               and
Length     Adminis-                                 Widening    streng-
Section           (km)      tragtin       Existina   Proposed          onlX       thenina
Width (i)--  -                  ERR X---- --
GP 1    282.0    -   302.6       20.6        SFAX           6.0         7.4           46.7        72.1
302.6    -   334.4      31.8         SFAX           6.1        7.4
334.4    -   339.0       4.6         SFAX           7.4        7.4
339.0    -   352.0      13.0         SFAX           5.9        7.4           34.3        62.4
3S2.0    -   375.5      23.5         SFAX           6.1        7.4           77.8        86.7
375.5    -   393.7      18.2         GABES          6.2        7.4           94.0        99.8
393.7    -   399.0       5.3         GABES          6.0        7.4
399.0    -   399.7       0.7         GABES          6.0        7.4          142.4       157.9
399.7    -   401.9       2.2         GABES          9.8        9.8
401.9    -   404.4       2.5         GABES          8.8         8.8
404.4    -   408.5       4.1         GABES          8.9        8.9             -        208.7
408.5    -   411.0       2.5         GABES          6.4         7.4
411.0    -   41S.0       4.0         GABES          6.7        7.4            34.0       90.3
415.0    -   441.0      26.0         GABES          6.4         7.4
441.0    -   444.9       3.9         GABES          6.1        7.4            39.3       83.2
444.9    -   454.0       9.1         GABES          6.1        7.4           29.7        62.6
454.0    -   474.0      20.0         MEDENINE       5.9         7.4          40.7        91.6
Sub total                192.0



- 65 -
ANNEXl
Page 2 of S
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Program for 584 km of Roads
Widening
Regional                                                and
Length     Adminis-                                 Widening    streng-
Road   Section    (km)       tration       Existing   Proposed          only       th2ning
-   Width ()-----  -ERR % 
GP3      60.00   -    75.10    15.10        ZAGHOUAN         5.3         7.0           61.7        56.8
7S.10   -    96.20    21.10       ZAGHOUAN         6.1         7.0
96.20   -   101.00      4.80      ZAGHOUAN         6.0         7.0           24.1        22.0
101.00   -   103.30      2.30      ZAGHOUAN         6.0         7.0
103.30   -   108.30      5.00      ZAGHOUAN         6.0         7.0
108.30   -   116.50      8.20      KAIROUAN         6.0         7.0           28.6        26.7
116.50   -   142.10    25.60       KAIROUAN         6.2         7.0           47.9        SS.9
142.10   -   153.00    10.90       KAIROUAN         6.4         7.0
153.00   -   161.90      8.90      KAIROUAN         7.0         7.0          124.3       117.9
162.80   -   164.45   165.00       KAIROUAN         7.1         7.1
164.45   -   167.50      3.05      KAIROUAN         S.0         7.0           69.0        69.6
167.50   -   173.00      5.50      KAIROUAN         6.2         7.0
173.00   -   194.60    21.60       KAIROUAN         5.7         7.0
3.00   -     9.20      6.20      KAIROUAN         6.7         7.4
Sub total                    140.8



- 66 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APeRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Program for 584 km of Roads
Widening
Regional                                                and
Length     Adminis-                                 Widening    streng-
Road   Section    (km)       tration       Existing   Proposed          on1x       thening
-----Width (m) -----              ERR  -------
GP 4     47.500  -    63.000   15.500        SILIANA         4.7         6.0           36.8        42.4
63.000  -   65.750    2.750        SILIANA         4.7         6.0
67.550  -    88.000   20.450       SILIANA         4.8         6.0           26.4        30.3
88.000  -    93.800    5.800       SILIANA         4.3         6.0
93.800  -    96.200    2.400       SILIANA         4.0         6.0
96.200  -    99.600  .J.A40        SILIANA         6.2         6.2            15.4       33.8
Sub total                 50.300
GP S       5.000  -     6.000    1.000       TUNIS           6.0         7.4
6.000  -    10.600   4.600        TUNIS           6.9         7.4                      133.9
Sub total                   5.600
GP 6     93.300  -   10S.00    11.700        JENDOUBA        5.5         7.0           36.3        34.6
GP1O     11.700         14.000    2.300      TUNIS           5.3         7.4
14.000  -    16.700    2.700       TUNIS           5.7         7.4                       65.6
Sub total                   5.000
GP12    153.00   -   157.500    4.500        SILIANA         5.1         S.1                       39.9
166      -   170.000    4.000       LE KEF          6.2         6.2                       45.9
181      -   188.000    7.000       LE KEF          5.5         5.5                       20.5
197          203.250    6.2.50      LE KEF          s.3         5.3                       55.9
Sub total                  21.750



- 67 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of S
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Program for 584 km of Roads
Widening
Regional                                                and
Length     Adminis-                                 Widening    streng-
Section           (km)       tration       Existina   ProRosed          ofl.y      thening
-   Width ()----- --ERR  -------
MC   47  35.50   -    44.00       8.50      SILIANA          5.2         6.0
44.00   -    50.60      6.60      SILIANA          5.2         6.0           28.9        37.9
SO.60   -    57.50      6.90      SILIANA          4.4         6.0           55.2        57.6
GP   18  57.50   -    61.40       3.90      SILIANA          4.7         6.0           32.0        36.7
MC   47   9.20   -    11.00       1.80      SILIANA          S.0         6.0           37.4        43.8
11.00   -    14.50      3.50      SILIANA          5.7         6.0
tC   47  61.40   -    64.80    3.4Q         SILIANA          S.9         6.0                       35.4
34.60
N    71   1.60   -      2.60      1.00      LE KEF           4.9         6.0           33.5        34.8
2.60   -      8.00     5.40      LE KEF           4.7         6.0
8.00   -    14.40      6.40      LE KEF           4.7         6.0
14.40   -    31.20    16.80       LE KEF           4.5        30.9           33.1
31.20   -    38.00      6.80      LE KEF           4.5         6.0           17.9        26.5
58.00   -    70.00    12.00       SILIANA          5.1         6.0           45.7        44.4
48.40
RVE 544   2.15   -      5.85      3.40      TUNIS            5.1         7.4                        3.8
Grand total               584.45



- 68 -
Page S of S
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINtENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Proaram for S84 km of Roads
Widening
Regional                                                and
Length     Adminis-                                 Widening    streng-
gaod         SectLon           (kml       tralon        Existina   Proposed          only       thbning
- Width  m)-- ---ERR %-------
MC   17 48.00   -    60.3       12.3       JENDOU8A         4.5         6.0           28.4        31.6
60.30   -    63.8        3.5      JENDOUBA          5.0        7.0
63.80   -    6S.4        1.6      JENDOUBA          7.0        7.0            39.1       53.2
78.00   -    94.0       16.0      LE KEF            5.1        6.0
94.00   -    98.0       4.0       LE KEF           6.0         6.0            51.4       51.4
114.40   -   128.5      14.1       LE KEF           S.1         6.0
128.50   -   131.5       3.0       LE KEF           5.2         6.0           48.3        42.4
54.5
MC   26  32.00   -   350.90       3.9       CAP-BON          4.9         6.0           51.1        63.5
35.90   -   410.00    5..L        CAP-BON          4.2         6.0
9.0
MC   33  12.60   -   150.10       2.5       TUNIS            6.4         7.8
15.10   -   160.20       1.1      TUNIS            5.2         7.4                       54.6
16.20   -   170.20       1.0      TUNIS            S.1         7.4
4.6
FC 33E1   0.00   -   200.00       2.0       TUNIS           10.0        10.0                       55.2
MC 33E3   4.75   -   500.75        1.0      TUNIS            5.0         7.4                       88.1



ANNEX 17
- 69-                                Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.       Plan Directeur Routier.  Setec Economie/Sotinfor, 1982.
2.       Etude de l'Entretien Routier.  Setec International/
Sotuetec-Sotinfor, 1984.
3.       Photodiagonostic du Secteur des Transports.  Cellule de
Planification et Coordination des Transports. Ministere des Transport,
1985.
4.       Road Transport Regulations in Tunisia.  H.L. Beenhakker,
Transportation Department, 1985.
5.       The Regulated Road Transport of Freight.  Transportation
Department, 1985.
6.       Road Network and Transport Characteristics in Tunisia and an
Evaluation of Marginal Road Deterioration. William D.O. Paterson.
Transportation Department, 1985.
7.       Projet de Septineme Plan.  Ministere de l'Equipement et de
1'Habitat. Direction gin6rale des Ponts et Chauss6es, 1985.
8.       Projet d'Amenagement de Pistes Agricoles.
9.       Difinition des services de consultants n6cessaires pour la mise en
place de la Direction de la Formation et V'Elaboration et Implementation du
Plan de Formation du Personnel d'Entretien Routier. Ministere des
1'Equipement, 1986.
10.      Definition des service;s de consultants necessaire pour la mise en
place des activit6s d'organisation et methodes a l'interieur de la
Direction de l'Exploitation et de l'Entretien Routier. Ministere de
l'Equipement, 1986.
11.      Definition des services de consultants necessaires pour la mise en
place de la restructuration des services et activit6s de la Direction du
Materiel. Ministere de l'Equipement, 1986.



ANNEX 17
- 70 -                              Page 2 of 2
12.      Definition des services de sp6cialistes de laboratoire necessaires
pour la mise en oeuvre du renforcement des services de la Direction de la
Recherche Appliquee et du Laboratoire. Ministere de l'Equipement, 1986.
13.      Programme d'entretien.  Routes et Ponts.  Titre r, Article 60
Gestion 85. Direction Generale des Ponts et Chau&s6es, 1985.
14.      Projet de Budget d'Equipement.  Article I, Gestion 1986.
Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees, 1985.



Table 1
- 71 -                             Pae 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF TISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAYS M4AINTENANCE AND RERAIILITATION ?ROJEWT
Traffic Develomt 1967-6
Million pass-km or ton-km
1967    1970    1972    1977    1982    198L
Passengers
Road                1870              3247    5201    6750    7990
Rail                 384               337     447      S87     4.51
Total            2255              3584    5646    7337    6441
#u _    _                                   -
Freight
Road                          681      801    1600    2S00    4310
Rail                         1328     1442    1339    1S5O    1690
Excluding minerals          (_346)   (_377)  (_330)  (45)  (513)
Total                     2009     2243    3139    4090    6000
5~m           _am      ur.    a.



NOTES



NAP SECTION



-37'                                                                                                               t                                                 El Haouaria                      37'-
Tabarka
S                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Menzel Temime
W                     alaA Khasba                  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                          b
Youslsezoua                                                          
-360                                                                                                                                                       36P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07



(         0                oy/           DzE  F&riana                       "enze 
<  n      jf       <            )            -  /t8~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir Ali Ben   Aae,                    .  .2'
KILOMETERS
j     X        f      ~~~~aoui                                  ^                     f
34,-
34                                                                    t                                     -da   J',, .  s\\, 
..S~~~~~RA TRAFI VOLUMES                                                                                                                                C.
Nube if Vehicls pe Da (1982)z                          Secndr Roadse
-33~~~~~~~~1,0 orGWA MoreENNC -%-. Standardse Gag Railroads
r  Narrow Gauge  Railroads                                       1ssouk
3.001-8,000                 _      > Salt Lakes                     5                                              h9e
1.501-3,000          +              International Airports                            Remada                              R27 
O     Cities and Towns                                                          Ma <  Meod, ',4w BWttfw
__  _  ~   500 or Less       @M National Capital                    atat
__~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ _- -    Governorate Boundaries                                                                                                               i
_~~~~_  _   ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -- ~~~~International Btoundaries                                           32     ALGERIA        1       *I Y           i_
_#~~~~~~_f___ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~    ~    as                                                        MEDi 
~~~~                                                                                                      32     AIGEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GourssAr
C~~~~~~                          ~RA TRAFFI VOLUME
-~~~~ -~~~~- - ~~~~~~~*Narw  aue-airod
-- Pb in.W ~ ~   ~     ~     ,01-2.00Pot
j2    _t___..                                                                                                                                                            < 
m      w_                                                                                                                                   x, ,/I                          ',      I
_.                       80Q.                                                                                 1 nv                               \.            1s1t1 't-a D3  l  rLakes



..   te X          . ~~~Ras Djebel
*37*                                                                                             teu                                                El Haouaria                   37*
T  (GOulette    Menzel          - ~~Keflbia
{  <   BEJA  ;>/          4                   <               B-ou         7Menzel Temime
JENDOUBUB A     HE0&             Pt. dU   /       193F             UIABEUL
0         0       as       ZAGHOUAN F   ZaAmamet
-36                                  1. Youssef i                 C<s       /K           ~         JIC                                                                          364_
. s SenamX  /       <atia                  ;   ~~~~~~*\~  MNAStlR
to Tebes5a   Thala >   o   o     J                         .      f   \  ~~~~~~~~~* MAHDIA
(:)  *   .  /                           <           ,   BouOHajla              '- r;  \           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Ksour-Essaf
SiI                                                                                                    Jeiaeniana 3un
r             {}        f~~~~~~F4r,ana            /,\                                                         ,  X 
T, TebeG-;                                                         .-"'7aktharr~
0   -~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                    SUS
To TaSbba                                                                                                       M 2   50        75
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K  /soureD-kt 
rO   ~~   n  .  :  _. ,, : / , . ,~~~~~ 0 25 50 75jl



I~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        0    -. (  //.r
Bir Ai~ Ben    Agareb    SA 
0        25         50        75
raMerza Redeyef                                                                                                          KILOMETERS
i / Metl~~~~taout   0 M'  Es I                                                            ira
34
34*   itouia
TOZEUR                                                                                                            Esouke
Nefta        *                                                            El Hamma         * GABES                    40
Ajim
Jon 0
sGBELLI                                           \                          -
t                            \                                           M~~~~~~ ~~~              ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~areth%    
-                                                 0~ <5Matmata                                    Z s
Douz
Fegoassi                                                   MEDEN
Khediche0
Buen
Ghoumrassen                                 G e            j .   33*
-33*
* TATAOUINE
TUNISIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                 Jw
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
Main Roads
Secondary Roads                                                                               11
Standard Gauge Railroads                                                            _
Narrow Gauge Railroads
Ports                                                                 0Remada                     f771
Salt Lakes                                            ~/Ull
4     International AirDorts
o    Cities and Towns
-_~  e Governorate Capitals                                                                                                     i
d>d  i3    National Capital                                                                  AL G E R IA             BY A
~'2       %.                                  Governorate Boundaries                                                           3                    .                       D
C :                                                International Boundaries                                                                                                      C
Z    .,,      __ -                                                                                                                                      ,, 
mg    _ ~               8                                        0*'^



