Page  1
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2896 TUN
                         Loan Agreement
        (Highways Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
                             between
                       REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                               and
              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                         AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated January 15, 1988
                                            LOAN NUMBER 2896  TUN
                         LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1988,   between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement,  has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MEH" means Ministere de I'Equipment et de 1'Habitat, the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Transport;
Page  2
     (b)  "DGPC" means Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees,
the Highway Department in MEH;
     (c)  "DRAL" means Direction de la Recherche Appliquee et du
Laboratoire, the Central Laboratory and Applied Research
Directorate in MEH;
     (d) "OFPP" means Office de la Formation et Promotion
Professionnelle, the Borrower's institution responsible for
vocational promotion and training;
     (e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (f) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs
from January 1 to December 31.
                           ARTICLE II
                            The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty--
three million dollars ($63,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the
last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
     (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
          on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
          signed.
     (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by
the Bank.
Page  3
     (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE III
                    Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
DGPC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and engineering practices,
all in accordance with an action plan acceptable to the Bank, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out a technical and economic evaluation of those
sections of its road network it proposes to include for rehabili-
tation under Part A (4) of the Project;
     (b)  on the basis of said evaluation and in accordance with a
methodology and criteria acceptable to the Bank select priority
roads for rehabilitation under Part A (4) of the Project; and
     (c)  prior to advertising the invitation to bid for any
contract for works to be carried out under said Part A (4) of the
Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and approval detailed
information concerning the roads so selected.
     Section 3.03. For purposes of strengthening the personnel
management and training systems of DGPC, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  establish and maintain a Training Directorate to be
headed by an experienced Director with qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank and appoint and maintain qualified and experienced
staff required for the purpose.  Such Directorate shall be
responsible inter alia, for: (i) liaising with, agencies outside of
MEH in charge of training of personnel, vocational education and
training institutions within the Borrower's territory as well as
outside; (ii) organizing seminars and fellowship programs; and
(iii) establishing and implementing a training monitoring   system;
and
     (b)  establish and maintain a Steering Committee within DGPC.
Such Steering Committee shall be responsible inter alia, for: (i)
preparing the general outline of the Training Directorate's annual
work program; (ii) approving the training plan and programs
prepared by such Directorate and allocating the necessary
resources; and (iii) reviewing the training actions undertaken and
designing measures to improve such training.
     Section 3.04. For purposes of strengthening the maintenance
and operation systems within MEH, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  establish and maintain a Road Maintenance Organization
and Method Unit to be chaired by an experienced manager with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  appoint and maintain qualified and experienced staff
required for the purpose.
Such Unit shall be responsible inter alia, for: (i) improving the
methods and guidelines for maintenance operations; and (ii) coor-
dinating with the Equipment Maintenance Directorate and Training
Page  4
Directorate and providing technical assistance at the regional
level.
     Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenant
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     b)    The Borrower shall:
     (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
          (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
          Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
          appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
          independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
          not later than nine months after the end of each such
          year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
          said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
          Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
     (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information con-
               cerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof and said records as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
     (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
          paragraph (a) of this Section, separate records and
          accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
          received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
          the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
          records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
          other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
     (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
     (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
          annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
          and that the report of such audit contains a separate
          opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
          expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
          with the procedures and internal controls involved in
          their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
          related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
Page  5
     (a)  that the Training Directorate referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement has been established and its Director has
been appointed;
     (b)  that the Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.03
(b) has been established; and
     (c)  that the Road Maintenance Organization and Method Unit
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) has been established and its head
has been appointed.
     Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VI
           Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan
          7, Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MIPLAN                            MIPLAN 15117TN
               TUNIS
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                                   REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                   By/s/ Habib Ben Yabin
                                                 Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                                    By/s/ Kemal Dervis
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                       Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                   % of
                              (Expressed in               Expenditures
    Category                  Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
     (a)  under Part A (2)          1,000,000            38%
         of the Project
     (b)  under Part A (4)         30,500,000            57%
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part A (5)          6,200,000            63%
          of the Project
(2)  Equipment under              16,500,000             100% of
     Parts A (3)                                         foreign
     Parts A (3),                                        expenditures
     B (3) and C (5)                                     and 78% of the
     Project                                             local ex-
                                                         penditures for
                                                         items procured
                                                         locally
(3)  Consultants'                   1,450,000            83%
     services under
     Parts B (1)
     and C of the Project
(4)  Fellowships                      450,000            100%
     under Part B (2)
     of the Project
(5)  Unallocated                    6,900,000
                                   ___________
                     TOTAL         63,000,000
                                   ============
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
  (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
  (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                   Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
maximizing the use of available resources in the highway subsector,
in particular through improving managerial and planning techniques.
The Project includes a five-year action plan which is designed to,
inter alia: (i) strengthen the Borrower's road maintenance and road
rehabilitation capacity; (ii) provide training to DGPC personnel;
and (iii) improve the organization and structure of the Borrower's
highway sub-sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:    Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
1.   Carrying out of annual programs for the routine and periodic
maintenance of the Borrower's roads.
2.   Construction of workshop facilities.
3.   Provision of road maintenance equipment, traffic equipment,
workshop and laboratory equipment for the carrying out of main-
tenance and rehabilitation programs.
4.   Carrying out of annual programs for the rehabilitation,
including pavement strengthening and road widening, of about 800 km
of the Borrower's roads.
5.   Carrying out of annual programs of asphaltic concrete overlays
on about 225 km of the Borrower's roads.
Part B:    Human Resources Development
1.   Strengthening the personnel management and training systems
by:
  (i)  The carrying out of annual programs for the training of
       DGPC staff in road maintenance and mechanical engineering;
  (ii) establishing a training directorate at DGPC; and
  (iii)   establishing a steering committee and ad hoc technical
          panels at DGPC.
2.   Provision of fellowships and overseas training for DGPC
engineers, high level staff and instructors from institutions
such as OFPP.
3.   Provision of equipment and didactic materials for the
training of DGPC staff.
Part C:  Institution Building and Studies
1.   Establishing an Organization and Methods Unit at DGPC.
2.   Strengthening the maintenance of mechanical equipment at
DGPC.
3.   Strengthening laboratory services at DRAL.
4.   Carrying out economic and engineering studies for the
implementation of the civil works rehabilitation program.
5.   Provision of computer equipment and material.
  The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1994.
Page  8
                           SCHEDULE 3
                      Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
  beginning June 1, 1992
  through June 1, 2004                             2,425,000
On December 1, 2004                                2,375,000
______________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                     Premiums on Prepayment
  The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
       Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                        The interest rate (ex-
                                        pressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable to
                                        the balance outstanding
                                        on the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                              0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                              0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                                0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years                                1.00
      before maturity
Page  9
                           SCHEDULE 4
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for road rehabilitation
under Part A (4) of the Project shall be grouped geographically
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or
more each.
Part B.  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Small items and specialized equipment under Part A (3), B
(3) and C (5) of the Project estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding proce-
dures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Civil works under Part A (2) and (5) of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C.  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to all contracts under the Project except
civil works contracts under Part A (2) and (5) of the Project and
small items under Parts A (3), B (3) and C (5) of the Project,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
Page  10
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of Parts B
(1) and C (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ engineering, management and training consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
  (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
  (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
  (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
  (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for
a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
  (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify.  On the basis of such requests, the Bank
shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Bank when either of the following situations first
arises:
      (i) the Bank shall have determined that all further
          withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower
          from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
          of Article V of the General Conditions and of paragraph
          (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
          the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
          outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse made by
          the Bank and of any outstanding special commitment
          entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
          the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
          shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
          the Authorized Allocation.
  (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  No further deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
  (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
