RESTRICTED
FILE    COPYXiR               RIC 
tffiJEG COPY §              Report No. P-669
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 4, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOFvENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIEiENDATION OF THE PRESIDETNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A FROPOSED DEVELOPSINT CREDIT AND LOAN TO THE 01ITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $8.0
million and a proposed loan in an amount in v-rious currencies equivalent
to $7.0 million to the United Republic of Tanzania.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In January 1968, the Government of Tanzania asked the Associa-
tion to help finance the reconstruction of the Mlorogoro-Iyayi section
(310 miles) of the Tanzania-Zambia highway. The application resulted
from earlier discussions (1966-67) involving the Governments of Tanzania
and Zambia, USAID, and the Association on the subject of developing a
reliable road link frm landlocked Zambia to the sea at Dar es Salaam.
The Government of Sweden indicated an interest in participating with the
Bank/IDA in the financing of the project and a representative of the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) participated in the
Bank/IDA appraisal mission wjhich visited Tanzania in April 1968. The
mission found that certain problems relating to pavement design and the
definition of the scope of the wzorks had to be resolved and reliable cost
estimates established before the appraisal could be completed. The design
problems were resolved in Julyr and detailed cost estimates obtained in
October.
3.        The Government of Sweden joined with the Bank in the negotia-
tions with Tanzania held in Noverrber 1968. The Tanzania delegation con-
sisted of Messrs. I..I. Kaduma, Director of Development Finance, the
Treasury, B.N. IMakani, Senior State Attorney, and H. Singh, Chief of
Roads and Aerodromes Division, MLinistry of Works.
4.        To provide the finance required for the project on terms that
would be as soft as possible despite the shortage of IDA funds, Sweden
has agreed to a special arrangement under which part of the Swedish cre-
dit would be granted in anticipation of IDA replenishment. Specifically,
the Swedish credit as finally negotiated is for a total amount of Sw.Kr.78
million (about $15 million equivalent). That amount is being made avail-
able on the understanding that after the Second Replenishment, or other
arrangements providing the Association with at least the equivalent of
$500 million froa contributions by member countries prior to December 31,
1970, becomes effective, Tanzania will apply to the Association for a
further credit for the project in an amount of $7.5 million equivalent
and, if this credit were granted, Sw.Kr. 39 million of the Swedish credit
would be cancelled. At the request of Sweden, I have agreed in principle



- 2 -
that I would recommend to the Executive Directors an additional credit
of $7.5 million to Tanzania for the project when IDA resources had been
replenished under one of the above alternatives, providing that the
Associationts usual lending requirements were satisfied by Tanzania
at the time such credit was presented for final approval. In the event
that the additional IDA credit should not materialise, the Swedish
credit would remain at Sw. Kr. 78 million (approximately $15 million).
5.   The Second Highway Project would be the first project in Tanzania
involving both IDA and Bank financing. It would bring the total IDA
financing to $35.9 million and total Bank financing to $12.2 million.
The following is a statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania
as at Decemiber 31, 1968:
Amount (US$ million)
No.   Year        Borrower            Purpose        Bank IDA  Undisbursed
454TA  1963 Tanzania              Education                  4.6
48oTA  1964 Tanzania              Roads                    114.0    3.3
80TA  1966 Tanzania              Agricultural Credit       5.0     201
518-TA  1967  Tanzania Electric    Power                5.2          414
Supply Company Ltd.;-
115-TA  1968 Tanzania              Supplementary Roads       3.0     3.0
132-TA  1968 Tanzania              Ranch Development    -     103    1.3
Total (less cancellations)                        5.2  27:9
of which has been sold                           .1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     5.1  27e9
Total undisbursed                                  4.4   9.7     14.1
* Successor to Tanganyika Electric Supply Company, Ltd.
6.   In addition to the above loans and credits, the Bank has made three
loans for common services in East Africa. All three loans are guaranteed
jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the United
Kingdom also being a guarantor for the first loan for railways and
harbors. The following is a summary statement of these loans as at
December 31, 1968:



Amount   (US$ nillJJin)
No.     Year           Borrower             Purpose        Bank     Undisbursed
n-_A     1955   East African Community*   Railways and
Harbors        24.0
428-EA   1965   East African Community*   Railways and
Harbors        38.0        10.1
483.-EA  1967   East African Posts and    Telecommunica-
Telecommunications        tions          13.0         7.9
Corporation*
Total (less cancellations)                         75.0
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                       13 3
Total now outstanding                              61.7
Amount sold:                          23.8
of which has been repaid            13.2         10.6
Total now held by Bank 
Total undisbursed                                              18.0
* As successor to EACSA (East African Common Services Authority)
7.   IFC has made two investments in Kilombero Sugar Company, Ltd. in
1960 and 1964 amounting to $3.6 million in loans and $0.7 million in shares.
As of December 31, 1968 $0.3 million of the loan was undisbursed. This
project is in financial difficulties, and recently IFC and other investors
have had discussions with the Government of Tanzania on terms and conditions--
under which the Government might acquire ownership of the Company. A settle-
ment is expected to be reached in the near future.
8.   Progress under the 1964 Roads Credit (h8-TA) has improved during the
last year with a resultant acceleration in disbursements. On the other hand,
disbursements on the Supplementary Roads Credit (115-TA) have not yet
started because of delays in recruiting experts to be financed under the
credit for the staffing and training program of the Roads and Aerodromes
Division of the Ministry of Communications, Labour and Works. Steps have
now been taken to speed up recruitment of the experts. Although disburse-
ments under the 1967 power loan were slow to start, the project is in fact
on schedule; payments under the principal contract are due later than was
assumed when the loan was made.
9. Negotiations have been substantially completed for a proposed IDA
credit of $5.0 million for a Second Education Project.
10. Two new East African Community projects, one for harbors and the
other for railways, are under consideration as the subject of possible Bank
lending.  Tanzania, jointly and severally with Kenya and Uganda, would be
guarantor.
11. Agreements have been reached for the settlement of the major pro-
portion of compensation claims arising from the 1967 nationalization
measures and payments are being made on schedule.  Claims still unsettled
include those by two British commercial banks. According to information
available to the Bank, negotiations are still continuing with these and
other claimants.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED FINANCING
12.       The proposed Credit from the Association
BORROWFR:         The United Republic of' Tanzania
AMOUNT:           US $8.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
AMORTIZATION:     In 5D years including a 10-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from March 1, 1979 through
September 1, 1988 and of 1-1/2% from March 1,
1989 through September 1, 2018.
SERVICE CHARGE:   3/4 of 1% per annum
i3.       The proposed Loan from the Bank
_ ORRGOER:        The United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:           US $7.0 million equivalent in various currencies
AMORTIZATION:     In 30 years including a 10-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments begin-
ning March 1, 1979 and ending March 1, 1929.
INT7REST RATE:    6-1/2% per annum
CC -TTIhNENT CHARGE : 3/4 of 15 per annum
)4.       Proposed Credit from Sweden
DORR. CR:         The United Rerublic of Tanzania
A3iCUNT:          Swedish Kr. 78,000,000 equivalent in various
currencies
A:TNOPTITION:     In 50 years including a 10-year period of
grace through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from March 1, 1979 through September 1,
1988 and of 1-1/2% from March 1, 1989 through
September 1, 2018.
SERVICE CKH.RG-E:  3/4 of 1% per annum
15.       Purrose of Pronosed Financing
To help finance the reconstruction of the 310 mile Morogoro-
Iyeyi section of the Tanzania-Zambia Highway.
16.       Rate of Return
The economic rate of return to Tanzania on the proposed investment
is estimated at 15% on the basis of Tanzanian traffic only and about 20% on
the basis of Tanzanian and Zambian traffic combined.



- 5 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
17.      An appraisal report entitled "Second Highway Prmject - Tanzania"
(T0 690a dated January 15, 1969) is attached.  The proposed project consists
of (i) the realignment and reconstruction to two-lane asphalt paved stand-
ard of the existing earth/gravel sections of the Tan-Zam Highway from a
point 38 miles west of Morogoro to Mahenge (a length of 102 miles) includ-
ing the Ruaha River bridge at Mbuyuni, and from Iringa to Iyayi (a length
of 125 miles); (ii) the reconstruction to two-lane asphalt paved standard
of the existing paved but low standard sections of the Tan-Zam HighwJay from
Morogoro to a point 38 miles to the west and from Mahenge to Iringa (a length
of 45 miles); and (iii) consultant's services for engineering supervision
of the above works. Concurrently USAID is financing reconstruction of the
highway from Iyayi to Tunduma (145 miles) on the 7ambia border. Reconstruc-
tion of the Zambia section of the highway from Tunduma. to Kapiri Mposhi
is being financed by the Government of Zambia, the United Kingdom and two
loans from the Bank (469-zA and 563-ZA).
18.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $37.5 million
based on detailed engineering, which was recently confirmed by bids. The
detailed engineering and sunervision of construction is being carried out
by consultants, and construction will be by contractors selected on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
19.      The proposed external financing would cover 80 percent of expendi-
tures on the project or $30 million, whichever would be the lower. Tanzania
would dra.w upon the various sources of external finance as follows: initially,
and until the IDA credit was fully disbursed, 50 percent from the IDA credit and
concurrently 50 percent from the Swedish credit; thereafter 100 percent from
the balance of the Swedish credit until it was in turn fully drawn down and
thereafter from the Bank loan.
20.      The total financing of $30 million provided by the Bank/IDA and
Sweden would cover the estimated foreign exchange component of the project
amounting to $25.8 million and $4.2 million of local costs. Tanzania is
at an early stage of development and, despite substantial efforts to mobilize
local resources, is not able to generate sufficient public savings to finance
all the local currency requirements of its development plan. Hence, as
indicated in Part V below, some external financing of local expenditure is
required. Financing in this form seems particularly appropriate for this
project in view of its strategic place in Tanzania's development program
and its significance in promoting regional integration. It should also be
noted that while the share of external financing (80%) is high, Sweden was
anxious to assume that its contribution would be additional to (and mt a
substitute for) the financing which would be available from the World Bank
Group.



_ 6 -
PART IV -  LEGAL I!1TSTRUPEIENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania
and the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Agreement on Alloca-
tion and Disbursement of Proceeds of Financing between the United Republic
of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Association and the Bank, the draft
Aa:iniotration Letter between the Kingdom of Sweden, the Association and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement and the ?ecommendation of the
Cormittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separatelyr.
22.       Except for the novel features described below, the draft Loan
Agreement and the draft Development Credit Agreement conform substantially
to the pattern of agreements used for highway projects and for governmental
projects involving joint financing. The draft Loan Agreement and the draft
Developrient Credit Agreement do not contain the usua-L provisions relating
to the allocation and disbursement of the proceeds of financing. Instead,
the allocation and disbursement of the total financing to be provided by
Sweden, the Association and the Bank for the Project is dealt with in a
separate agreement between the three co-lenders and Tanzania, namely, the
above-mentioned Agreement on Allocation and Disbursement of Proceeds of
Financing.  While this     Agreement provides for separate disbursement by
the respective co-lenders, it a_so contains arrangements to ensure coor-
dination between the co-lenders as to such disbursement (Articles IV and V).
The draft Administration Letter provides for coordination between Sweden,
the Association and the Bank with respect to the administration of the
Project.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
23.        A memorandum entitled "Recent Developments in the East African
Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda'"(AF-74) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 4, 1968 (R 68-52). The President's Report
and Recornmendations to the Executive Directors on a credit to Tanzania
for a livestock project (Report No. P.644 of October 9, 1968) included a
review of the principal economic developments in Tanzania in 1967.
2)4.       Details concerning the performance of the economy in 1968 are
not yet available. In general, however, the situation in 1963 is likely
to show an improvement over the previous year.   The output both of cotton
and cof-Zee is ex-pected to be higher, and prices have been relatively high.
Production of cashewnuts, tobacco and food crops is also expected to be
higher.  The export price of tea declined after the devaluation of the
British pound, but there was some compensatory increase in output. The
growth of manufacturing in 1968 may exceed the high average annual rate of



- 7 -
about 16 percent maintained since the early 1960Is.  The transport, com-
munication, commerce and construction sect'ors maintained a high level of
activity. Overall, the economy may have grown by not less than 5 percent
in 1968.
25.       The final year of Tanzania's second Five-year Plan is 1968-69.
Work on the third plan began over a year ago, and the staffing of Ministry
of Planning was substantially strengthened for the purpose. The new plan
is expected to come into force on July 1, 1969.
26.       The implementation of Tanzania's second Five-year Plan (1964-69)
was initially hampered by acute staffing shortages and also by interrup-
tions to the flow of external assistance.  There has been an overall improve-
ment in the staffing situation; while shortages still remain in some areas,
further strengthening of staff is continuing. Tanzania was able to mobil-
ise domestic resources to finance a major proportion - over 60 percent - of
the investment under the current Five-year Plan, and this was accomplished
through a curtailment of recurrent expenditure, and effective measures in
the field of taxation and local borrowing.  However, the high proportion
of dormestic financing in large part reflected a lower than desirable rate
of investment which in turn reflected deficiencies in the preparation and
execution of projects. Since 1966/67, however, there has been a signifi-
cant rise in investment as a consequence of staffing and organizational
im.provements, and a further increase is likely in -the ccning years. In the
circu!astances, domestic resources are likely to prove increasingly inadequate
to finance the investment program, and hence external sources should be
prepared to provide a much larger proportion of investment capital than in
the past, including some provision for financing local expenditures on high
priority projects.
27.       The servicing of TanzaniaJs external public debt, including a
one-third share of the East African Coimiunity debt, has not yet imposed a
serious burden (external debt servicing absorbed 4.5 percent of Tanzania's
foreign exchange earnings in 1967). However, external debt has been build-
ing up and it is planned that substantial further financing will be provided
to projects of the East African Cormmunity in the form of Bank loans. Hence,
taking into account also -the relative poverty of the country and the slow
prospective growth of its export earnings, it is considered desirable to
provide financing for Tanzania's national development program on a soft-
blend basis. Tanzania's need for concessionary finance is also recognized
by Sweden, which is providing all of its contribution for the present project
on terms equivalent to IDA.
PART VI -   COHiPTILIU'CE WITH ARTICLES
28.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit
would comply respectivelyT with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
the Association.



- 8 -
PART VII - RECOMIiENDATION
29        I recommend.that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolutions:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the United Republic of Tanzania in an
amount equivalent to U.S. $7,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the United Republic of Tanzania
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million
United States dollars (US$7,000,000), to mature on and prior
to YIarch 1, 1999, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-
half percent (6-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Second Highway Project) between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Bank, and the form of Agreement on Allocation
and Disbursement of Proceeds of Financing (Second Highway Project)
between the United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Sweden,
the Association and the Bank, which have been presented to this
meeting.
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the United Republic of
Tanzania in an amount equivalent to U.S. $8,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
United Republic of Tanzania in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million United States dollars (US$8,000,000),
to mature on and prior to September 1, 2018, to bear a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement
(Second Highway Project) between the United Republic of Tanzania
and. the Association, and the form of Agreement on Allocation
and Disbursement of Proceeds of Financing (Second Highway
Project) between the United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom
of Sweden, the Bank and the Association, which have been
presented to this meeting.
30.       I also recommend that the minutes of this meeting record the
followqing understanding of the Executive Directors of the Association:



-9-
"The E:ecutive Directors noted that a part of the Swedish fin-
ancing for the Second Highwayv Project was being provic'ed on the w der-
standing that once the Second Replenishmenat (or other a-rangenients pro-
viding the Association with at least the equivalent of $500 million from
contributions by member countries prior to December 31, 1970) became
effective, Tanzania would apply to the Association for a further credit
in an amount of $7,500,000 equivalent for the Second Highway Project and,
if such a credit were granted by the Association, 39,000,000 kroner
(approxi;Lately $7.5 million) of the Swedish credit would be cancelled.
The Executive Directors agreed that such a further credit for this project
in the amount of `7,500,000 equivalent on terms and conditions similar to
those of the present credit was acceptable,in principle,provided that the
Association's usual lending requirements were satisfied by Tanzania at
the time such credit was presented to the Executive Directors for final
approval."
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
February 4, 1969



- 9 -
"The Executive Directors noted that a. part of the Swedish fin-
ancing for the Second 1-Iighw2y Project was being prov-ced on trie u;oder-
standing that once the Second Replenishment (or other 3rrani6ements pro-
viding the Association with at least the equivalent of $500 million from
contributions by member countries prior to December 31, 1970) became
effective, Tanzania would apply to the Association for a further credit
in an amount of $7,500,000 equivalent for the Second Highway Project and,
if such a credit were granted by the Association, 39,000,000 kroner
(approximately .$7.5 million) of the Swledish credit would be cancelled.
The Executive Directors agreed that such a further credit for this project
in the amount of $7,500,000 equivalent on terms and conditions similar to
those of the present credit was acceptable,in principle,provided that the
Association's usual lending requirements were satisfied by Tanzania at
the time such credit was presented to the Executive Directors for final
approval."
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
February it 1960



