CREDIT NUMBER 142 TA
LOAN NUMBER 586 TA
Agreement on Allocation
and Disbursement of Proceeds of Financing
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 24, 1969


﻿0
CREDIT NUMBER 142 TA
LOAN NUMBER 586 TA
Agreement on Allocation
and Disbursement of Proceeds of Financing
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 24, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 24, 1969, between the
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower), the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called
Sweden), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (here-
inafter called the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS by separate agreements with the Borrower each
of even date herewith the Association and the Bank have
severally agreed to provide financing to the Borrower in
amounts equivalent, respectively, to US $8,000,000 and
US $7,000,000 for the purpose of assisting the Borrower
in financing the reconstruction of the Morogoro-lyayi sec-
tion of the Tan-Zam Highway linking Dar es Salaam with
Zambia;
WHEREAs by an agreement of even date herewith between
Sweden and the Borrower, Sweden has agreed to make
available to the Borrower a credit in the principal amount
of SKr 78,000,000, equivalent, at present parity rate, as
near as possible to US $15,000,000, for the purpose afore-
said; and
WHEREAS the Parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual
interest that the allocation and disbursement of the pro-
ceeds of such financing be regulated as hereinafter pro-
vided:
Now THEREFORE the Parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Agreement shall
have the following meanings:


﻿4
(a) The terms "Bank Agreement" and "Association
Agreement" mean the respective agreements between the
Bank and the Borrower and the Association and the Bor-
rower referred to in the first recital to this Agreement,
as from time to time amended.
(b) The term "Swedish Agreement" means the agree-
ment referred to in the second recital to this Agreement, as
from time to time amended.
(c) The term "Bank Loan" means the loan provided for
in the Bank Agreement.
(d) The term "Association Credit" means the credit
provided for in the Association Agreement.
(e) The term "Swedish Credit" means the credit pro-
vided for in the Swedish Agreement.
(f) The terms "Loan Account", "Credit Account" and
"Swedish Credit Account" mean the respective accounts
established under the Bank, Association and Swedish
Agreements.
(g) The term "Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the Bank Agreement.
(h) The term "goods" means equipment, materials, sup-
plies and services required for the Project.
ARTICLE II
Authority of the Bank to Represent
Sweden and the Association
SECTION 2.01. Unless otherwise notified by Sweden and
the Association, the Bank shall represent Sweden and the
Association in all matters under this Agreement which re-
quire the consent or the collective action of Sweden, the
Association and the Bank.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Allocation of Proceeds of Financing
SECTION 3.01. Subject to the respective provisions of
the Bank Agreement, the Association Agreement and the
Swedish Agreement, the proceeds of the Bank Loan, the
Association Credit and the Swedish Credit may be with-
drawn from the Loan Account, the Credit Account and
the Swedish Credit Account in accordance with the allo-
cation of the said loan and credits set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions set forth
herein or by further agreement between the Borrower,
Sweden, the Bank and the Association.
SECTION 3.02. If the estimated cost of the items included
in either Category I or Category II of the said Schedule 1
shall decrease, the amount then allocated to, and no longer
required for, such Category will be reallocated to Cate-
gory III of the said Schedule 1.
SECTION 3.03. If the estimated cost of the items included
in said Category I or Category II shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion of such increase to be financed out
of the Bank Loan, the Association Credit and the Swedish
Credit will be allocated, at the request of the Borrower,
to the appropriate Category from said Category III, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Bank in respect of the cost of the items
in the other Category.
ARTICLE IV
Amounts and Proportions of Financing to be Disbursed
SECTION 4.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.02
hereof, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from
the Loan Account, the Credit Account and the Swedish


﻿6
Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required for the Project and to be financed under the Bank
Agreement, the Association Agreement, the Swedish Agree-
ment and this Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments to
be made) in currencies other than the currency of the Bor-
rower for expenditures under Category I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, as shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for expenditures under Category II of the said Schedule 1,
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such expenditures, the Bank may by notice to
the Borrower adjust the above percentage as required in
order that the withdrawals of the amount allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the expenditures remaining to be made under such Cate-
gory.
SECTION 4.02. Each application for withdrawal by the
Borrower shall constitute an application to withdraw funds
under the Bank Agreement, the Association Agreement and
the Swedish Agreement and the amount so requested under
each Agreement shall be reasonably determined by the
Bank by apportioning, as nearly as is practicable in the
circumstances, the amount requested in such application
in the following respective proportions:
(i) initially and until the respective amounts of the
Association Credit and the Swedish Credit shall have been
fully withdrawn or committed, Sweden 50% and the Asso-
ciation 50%; and
(ii) thereafter the Bank 100%;
provided, however, that in the event that the amount of
the Association Credit is exhausted before the amount of


﻿7
the Swedish Credit shall have been fully withdrawn or com-
mitted, the proportions specified in the foregoing suk-
paragraph (i) shall be revised so that the proportion of
Sweden is 100%;
and provided further that the proportions specified in the
said sub-paragraph (i) may in any case be adjusted by
Sweden, the Association and the Bank as and when neces-
sary.
ARTICLE V
Disbursement Procedure
SECTION 5.01. When the Borrower shall desire to with-
draw the proceeds of the Bank Loan, the Association Credit
and the Swedish Credit, the Borrower shall deliver to the
Bank a written application in such form, and containing
such statements and evidence as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
SECTION 5.02. The following procedures shall apply to
the disbursement of the Association Credit and the Swedish
Credit:
(i) If the Bank determines that the Borrower's appli-
cation for withdrawal is satisfactory, there shall be dis-
bursed from the Credit Account an amount duly appor-
tioned to the Association in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02.
(ii) The Bank shall not approve such application unless
the Bank is satisfied (a) that such application, the accom-
panying documents and other evidence submitted by the
Borrower conform to the standards prescribed by the Bank
for withdrawal applications, and (b) that the amount ap-
plied for is to be used only for the purposes specified in
the Association and Swedish Agreements.
(iii) When the Bank has approved disbursement of such
amount under the Association Agreement in accordance
with the foregoing, it shall promptly notify the Sveriges


﻿0
8
Riksbank acting as agent for Sweden, that it has received
from the Borrower a satisfactory application to withdraw
funds (in an aggregate amount to be set forth in such
notice, also the amount thereof apportioned to each of the
Agreements pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02
hereof), and that the Bank has approved the disbursement
of a specified amount from the Credit Account. Such notice
shall be in such form, and contain such other information
including the currency or currencies in which disbursement
is to be made, and to whom, or on whose order, payment
is to be made, as Sweden, the Association and the Bank
shall from time to time determine.
(iv) Upon receipt of such notice, the Sveriges Riksbank,
acting as agent for Sweden, shall, subject to the provisions
of the Swedish Agreement (including any rights of sus-
pension or termination of withdrawal thereunder),
promptly disburse the amount specified in such notice as
having been apportioned to Sweden pursuant to the pro-
visions of the said Section 4.02 hereof.
SECTION 5.03. (a) After the entire proceeds of the Asso-
ciation Credit and the Swedish Credit shall have been fully
withdrawn or committed, the Bank shall process further
applications for withdrawals submitted by the Borrower
as applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Bank
Loan.
(b) Upon approval of any such application, the Bank
shall promptly disburse from the Loan Account such
amounts as the Borrower is entitled to pursuant to the
provisions of the Bank Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement contemplated by this Agreement shall be in


﻿9
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or
made at such party's address specified below or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request.
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For Sweden:
Sveriges Riksbank
Stockholm 2, Sweden
Cable address:
Riksbanken
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 6.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or per-
sons who will sign the applications provided for under
Articles IV and V of this Agreement or who will, on behalf
of the Borrower, take any other action or execute any other
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by the Borrower under this Agreement, and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All
such counterparts shall collectively be but one instrument.
SECTION 6.04. Except as shall otherwise be agreed by
the Parties hereto, this Agreement shall become effective
on the earliest date upon which the Swedish Agreement,
the Association Agreement and the Bank Agreement shall
all be in effect.
IN WITNESs WHEREOF, the Parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,


﻿United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By   /s/ G. M. RUTABANZIBWA
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ HUBERT DE BESCHE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocrATioN
By /s/ SimoN ALDEWERELD
Vice President
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s/ SimoN ALDEWERELD
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Bank Loan,
Association Credit and Swedish Credit
Allocation
(Expressed in US
Dollar Equivalent)
Category I     Consultant's Services for en-
gineering and supervision of
construction                       1,000,000
Category II    Road construction contracts       26,000,000
Category III Unallocated                          3,000,000
Total          $30,000,000
Out of which:
Bank Loan               7,000,000
Association Credit      8,000,000
*Swedish Credit         15,000,000
* The above figure has been calculated on the basis of the present parity
rate between the Swedish Krona and the US dollar. It is therefore
clearly understood that should a change in the foregoing parity occur
the dollar equivalent of the Swedish Credit would be affected thereby.
It is further noted that the Borrower and Sweden are providing in a
separate exchange of letters for the possible partial replacement of
the financial facilities under the Swedish Credit.


