The World Bank                                                      1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT               Washington, D.C. 20433    Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                               May 27, 2011
                                        CONFORMED COPY
            Mr. Milton Eduardo Machado Lens
            President
            Administración de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado
            Carlos Roxlo 1275
            Montevideo, Uruguay
            República Oriental del Uruguay

            H.E. Fernando Lorenzo
            Minister of Economy and Finance
            Colonia 1089, Piso 3
            Montevideo, Uruguay
            República Oriental del Uruguay


                                           Re: Amendment to Loan Agreement

            Dear Sirs:


                    We refer to the loan agreement entered into between Administración de las Obras
            Sanitarias del Estado (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
            Development (the Bank) in respect of the Loan listed in Annex 1 to this letter. We also refer to
            the request by República Oriental del Uruguay (the Guarantor) that the Bank enters into a Master
            Derivatives Agreement with the Guarantor.

                    In connection with such request, we hereby confirm the Bank’s agreement to amend
            Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement for the loan listed in Annex 1 to this letter so as to modify
            the General Conditions applicable to such loan as provided in Annex 2 to this letter.

                      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating this amendment
            letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in three counterparts,
            each of which shall be an original. Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original
            to us. The provisions set forth in this amendment letter. This amendment shall become effective
            upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.

                                                         Sincerely,


                                               By /s/ Penelope J. Brook
                                                       Director
                                           Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
                                        Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                          RCA 248423.   WUI 64145     FAX (202) 477-6391
                                           2

AGREED:

ADMINISTRACION DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO


By:      /s/ Milton Machado
          (Authorized Representative)

Title:   President

Date:    November 9, 2011



REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY


By:      /s/ Fernando Lorenzo
          (Authorized Representative)

Title:   Minister of Economy and Finance

Date:    November 18, 2011
                                             3

                                                                                  ANNEX I

                   List of Loans by Project Name and Number




Project Name                                         Loan Number

APL OSE Modernization and Systems Rehabilitation*    45560




‫٭‬General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans,
dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999)
                                                4


                                                                                       ANNEX II


                    Amendments to General Conditions Applicable to Loans


1.      A new definition of “Derivatives Agreement? is inserted in Article II, Section 2.01 as
follows:

        “Derivatives Agreement? means any derivatives agreement entered into between the
        Bank and the Borrower or the Guarantor for the purpose of documenting and confirming
        one or more derivatives transactions between the Bank and the Borrower or the
        Guarantor, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. Derivatives Agreement
        includes all schedules, annexes and agreements supplemental to the Derivatives
        Agreement.

2.      Article VI, Section 6.02, sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) are amended as follows:

                (a)      The Borrower shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the
        fact that such payment may have been made by the Guarantor or a third party) of
        principal or interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under the
        Loan Agreement, or (ii) under any other loan or guarantee agreement between the Bank
        and the Borrower, or (iii) under any Derivatives Agreement, or (iv) in consequence of
        any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third
        party with the agreement of the Borrower, or (v) under any development credit agreement
        between the Borrower and the Association.

                (b)    The Guarantor shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest
        or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under the Guarantee
        Agreement, or (ii) under any other loan or guarantee agreement between the Guarantor
        and the Bank, or (iii) under any Derivatives Agreement, or (iv) in consequence of any
        guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third
        party with the agreement of the Guarantor, or (v) under any development credit
        agreement between the Guarantor and the Association.

                (c)    The Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to perform any other
        obligation under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or any Derivatives
        Agreement.


3.     Article VII, Section 7.01, sub-paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) are amended to
read as follows:


                 (c)     A default shall occur in the payment by the Borrower of principal or
        interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any other loan
        or guarantee agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, or (ii) under any Derivatives
        Agreement, or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any
        kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Borrower, or (iv)
                                       5

under any development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Association, and
such default shall continue for a period of thirty days.

         (d)    A default shall occur in the payment by the Guarantor of principal or
interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or
guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank, or (ii) under any Derivatives
Agreement, or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any
kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Guarantor, or (iv)
under any development credit agreement between the Guarantor and the Association,
under circumstances which would make it unlikely that the Guarantor would meet its
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period
of thirty days.

        (e)      A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation on the
part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement or any Derivatives Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the
Guarantor.
