RESTRICTED
FWg  CITpY                      Report No. P-528
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR
CROWN LANDS DEVELOPMENT
February 27, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOI1U1ENDATION OF THE PRES=DENT
TO THE =X3CUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOA', TO TRINIDAD ANTD TOBAGO
FOR A PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPNEIENT
OF CROSN LAfmDS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.0 million to
Trinidad and Tobago to help finance an agricultural land settlement
project on Crown lands (Government-owned land).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In October 1964 the Government of Trinidad and Tobago asked
for assistance in the preparation of an agricultural land settlement
project on Crown lands. An FAO project preparation mission visited
Trinidad and Tobago in August 1965. In January 1966 the Government
requested a Bank loan to help finance the project and a Bank mission
visited Trinidad and Tobago in March to make an appraisal.
3.        Formal negotiations for the proposed loan were held in
I.hshington from October 10 to 19, 1966.  The principal representative
of the Government in these negotiations was Sir Ellis Clarke,Ambassador
of Trinidad and Tobago in Washington.
4.       The following is a summary statement as of January.31,196'7
of the Banik loan made to Trinidad and Tobago:
Loan   Year           Borrower            Purpose    Amount    Undisbursed
lIo0.                                                   (US$ million)
293-TR  1961  Trinidad and Tobago          Power      23.5        4.7
Of which has been repaid                 1.L
Amount now outstanding                  22.1
Amount sold                   15.4
Of which has been repaid     _ loU      14.o
Amount now held by Bank                  8.1



- 2 -
The generating plant included in the above project was completed well
in advance of the original schedule. The undisbursed balance in the
loan is due to a delay in the transmission and distribution portion
of the project, which is now expected to be completed by December 1967.
5.        The Bank has under advanced consideration a request from the
Government for a loan of about US$8.6 million to help finance a high-
way project. The Government has also expressed its desire to seek
Bank assistance for projects in education, fisheries, agricultural
credit and port development.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                   Trinidad and Tobago
Amount:                     The equivalent in various currencies
of Us$5.0 million
Purpose:                    To help finance an agricultural
land settlement project
Amortization:               In 37 semi-annual installments,
beginning January 15, 1972 and
ending January 15, 1990
Interest Rate:              6%
Commitment Charge:          3/8O
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "'Crown Lands Development Project
of Trinidad and Tobago" (TO-561a) on the proposed project is attached,
8.        Agriculture in Trinidad and Tobago, including forestry and
fishery, employs about 21% of the working population. Its contribu-
tion to gross national product has fallen from 17% in 1953 to 10% in
1965, although the value of output increased in absolute terms during
this period. There is scope for considerable expansion in agricul-
tural production and it appears that about 100,000 acres of Government
land - so-called Crown land - are suitable for agricultural development.
Trinidad and Tobago imports a substantial amount of foodstuff, which
represents about one-fourth of total imports (excluding crude oil for
the refining industry) and substantial savings in foreign exchange can
be expected through an increase in agricultural output.
9.        The project falls under the general jurisdiction of the
Minister of Agriculture. A qualified project director acceptable to
the Bank has been appointed, who will be responsible for the execution
of the project with the advice of the Crown Lands Development Committee.
He is to be assisted by experts in dairy husbandry, pig husbandry,
veterinary services and agricultural credit.



- 3 -
10.       The proposed project consists of the establishment of 1.800
farms on about 12,000 acres of Croun land located in various parts of
Trinidad. Depending upon suitability of the land, the farms will be
developed for dairying, pig breeding and fattening, tree crops, veget-
able and food crops and tobacco. Farm sizes will vary from 3 acres
for vegetable farms to 20 acres for dairy farms. Farm development
works, which include the provision of infrastructure, land clearance
and on-farm development, as appropriate, will be provided under the
project. Ancillary marketing and processing facilities for the out-
put of these farms will also be provided where necessary.
11.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.4 million.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$5.4 million, of
which a Canadian Government loan is financing slightly less than US$0,5
million and the remainder would be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
12.       The proposed project is expected to provide a significant
increase in agricultural output and contribute to substantial savings
in foreign exchange for Trinidad and Tobago. The estimated overall
rate of return of 16 percent expected from the project is satisfactory.
13.       All imported goods except for cattle and minor items will
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. Inter-
national competitive bidding would not be appropriate for the procure-
ment of cattle since the type and quality of the animals required for
the project can only be obtained in sufficient quantity in a few
countries and the animals would have to be individually assessed in
the country of origin. Thus cattle will be procured through negotia-
tions with recognized livestock export organizations, with prior
consent of the Bank as to source, type and number of cattle and
approximate cost. Competitive bidding on civil works contracts
will be carried out locally in view of the small size of the con-
tracts. Housing contracts will be awarded by the National Housing
Authority on the basis of a fixed price, a procedure followed by
the Government for all low-cost houses and found to be effective in
keeping housing costs low.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement between Trinidad and Tobago and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Section 2.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement provides that no withdrawals shall be made
from the Loan Account (i) with respect to dairy farming, until a
dairy husbandry expert and dairy stockman have been employed, and
(ii) with respect to expenditures for pig farming, until a pig hus-
bandry expert has been employed, all in accordance with tse provisions
of Section 5.01(f) on the employment of consultants and experts for
the Project.  The draft Loan Agreement otherwise conforms substan-
tially to the pattern of loan agreements used for projects of this
kind.



PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       A report (WH-160a) on the "Current Econonmic Position and Prospects
of Trinidad and Tobago" was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 26,
1966. The report highlighted the uncertain prospect of the important pe-
troleum industry continuing to provide Trinidad and Tobago with an assured
source of rising foreign exchange earnings and the need for effective poli-
cies aimed at developing alternative sources of foreign exchange. In this
connection, the report emphasized that the rapid growth of consumption in
recent years needed to be restrained through fiscal and other measures, in
order to relieve pressures on the balance of payments and mobilize additional
public savings to finance the planned higher level of public investment from
non-inflationary sources. The report concluded that, with the public savings
and borrowing program which was then planned, Trinidad and Tobago would be
able to finance about 50 percent of the higher investment program from do-
mestic resources and would be justified in looking abroad for the financing
of the remaining half. The Government has recently decided, however, that
it would not be feasible to initiate the full program of financial measures
previously planned for 1967 and is therefore postponing the initiation of
a number of investment projects in order to keep public investment in 1967
within the limits of the financial resources currently in prospect.
16.       While the Government's public saving and investment program for
1967 is smaller than planned previously, several major measures were carried
out in 1966 and additional measures are being undertaken in 1967 to restrain
the growth of consumer demand and mobilize additional public savings through
revenue actions and limits on the growth of public current expenditures. A
new Finance Act was passed last fall increasing taxes on corporate and
shareholders' income, and double taxation agreements were concluded with
the U.S., U.K. and Canada, the net revenue increase amounting to TT$4
million a year. Legislation relating to investment in Trinidad and Tobago
of insurance company assets was also enacted which improves the prospects
for public borrowing. The Government has also requested Public Utility
Commission approval of increases in charges for water and sewerage, bus
and train fares, and power rates. The Government has now decided to cover
the operating deficits of the public undertakings in the form of loans
rather than grants as an additional step in obtaining their financial via-
bility at maximum speed. Plans are also well advanced for the establish-
ment of a national lottery and a social security scheme, which would gener-
ate additional savings. An Industrial Court, established over a year ago,
has considerably reduced the earlier problem of insupportable wage increases
and labor instability. No strikes occurred over the past year and major
wage settlements were in line with government policy to limit real wage
increases to one percent per year over the next three years. These measures
are planned to be supplemented by monetary policies directed at regulating
consumption-type commercial bank credit and hire-purchase financing, now
possible since the new Central Bank received full powers to execute monetary
policies in mid-1966.



17.       The TT$60 million investment program now planned for 1967,
which is slightly below the level of recent years, will enable the
Government to complete projects initiated in recent years, and should
permit the Crowin lands project to go fornward. Restraining public
investment will help to ease pressures on the balance of payments and
prices but will make possible only limited progress in carrying out
the Government's policy of diversifying the economy and reducing
dependence on the petroleun industry with its currently uncertain
prospects. Additional public savings continue to be needed to
increase the investment effort, particularly for further expansion
of agricuslture and for infrastructure needed to aid in economic
diversification and export promotion, including tourism.
18.       The external public debt of Trinidad and Tobago repayable
in foreign exchange in the middle of 1966 totalled US$h million.
Since then, no additional debt has been incurred,   The annual service
payments on the outstanding external debt plus a US$6 million private
placement now scheduled, amount to approximately US$11 5 million until
1971.   These debt service payments at their peak represent less than
8 percent of Trinidad and Tobago's present level of foreign exchange
earnings. This percentage needs to be viewed in the context of
Trinidad and Tobago's current high dspendence on the petroleum industry
and the problems which exist in diversifying the economy. Trinidad and
Tobago can prudently add to her present external indebtedness0   But
the extent to which further external borrowing should be planned and
therefore the appropriate future role of external lenders will depend
largely on the extent to which the Government can mount an adequate
diversification program and generate the additional private and public
savings needed to finance this program.
PART VI - COMPLIAICE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEhENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - REC01-4ENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the follow-
ing Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO._
Approval of Loan to Trinidad and Tobago (Croin
Lands Development Project) in an amount equiva-
lent to U.S,$5,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Trinidad and Tobago in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million United States
dollars (U.S0$5,000,000), to mature on and prior to January 15, 1990,



- 6 -
to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to
be upon such other terms and conditicns as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the fonn
of Loan Agreement (Crown 'Lands Development Project) between Trinidad
and Tobago and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
Attachment                                         George D. Woods
President
February 27, 1967.



