                                      PERU

      Lima Water Rehabilitation and
                Management Project
and National Rural Water Supply and
                   Sanitation Project




                            Report No. 106723
                                   JUNE 30, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                  Report No.: 106723




           PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   Peru

    LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                               (IBRD-38110)

                                   and

    NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT


                          (IBRD-7142 IBRD-7978)


                               June 30, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                      ii


   Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

   Currency Unit = Peruvian nuevo sol (S/.)

   2003                      US$1.00                   S/. 3.48
   2005                      US$1.00                   S/. 3.29
   2010                      US$1.00                   S/. 2.83
   2011                      US$1.00                   S/. 2.75
   2012                      US$1.00                   S/. 2.64
   2013                      US$1.00                   S/. 2.70
   2014                      US$1.00                   S/. 2.84

   Abbreviations and Acronyms
   APT              Agua para todos
   BOT              Build-Own-Transfer
   ERR              Economic rate of return
   FONCODES         Fondo Nacional de Cooperación para el Desarrollo or National Fund for Development
                    Cooperation
   IEG              Independent Evaluation Group
   ISR              Implementation Status and Results Reports
   JASS             Juntas Administradoras de Servicio y Saneamiento (local water and sanitation
                    management boards or rural community water and sanitation services associations)
   JBIC             Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
   MTR              mid-term review
   PRONASAR         Programa Nacional de Abastecimento de Água e Saneamento or National Rural Water
                    Supply and Sanitation Project
   QAE              Quality-at-Entry
   RAS              Reimbursable Advisory Services
   SEDAPAL          Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima or Lima Metropolitan Area Water
                    Supply and Sewerage Service Company
   SUNASS           Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de Saneamiento



   Fiscal Year

   Government:               January 1 –December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                              :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector and Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                                  :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                          :   Mr. Ramachandra Jammi
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary .......................................................................................................................... viii
1. Background ..................................................................................................................... 1
   Sector Background .......................................................................................................... 1
2. Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project ..................................................... 4
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ................................................................................. 4
   Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
   Achievement of Objectives ........................................................................................... 10
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 16
   Project Ratings .............................................................................................................. 17
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 18
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 19
3. National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project ................................................... 20
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 20
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 24
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 28
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 33
   Project Ratings .............................................................................................................. 34
   World Bank Performance ............................................................................................. 35
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 36
4. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 37
5. References ..................................................................................................................... 39
APPENDIX A. Basic Data Sheet...................................................................................... 40
APPENDIX B. List of Persons Met .................................................................................. 45
APPENDIX C. The ‘Condominial’ Approach.................................................................. 46
APPENDIX D. Summary of Focus Group Discussions ................................................... 49
APPENDIX E. Borrower Comments ................................................................................ 57



This report was prepared by Ramachandra Jammi, who assessed the project in July 2015 along with
Ryotaro Hayashi. The report was peer reviewed by Vijay Jagannathan and panel reviewed by Fernando
Manibog. Richard Kraus and Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                                                     iv


Boxes
Box 1. Condominial networks .......................................................................................... 48

Tables
Table 1. Trends in Access to Improved Water Supply and Sanitation ............................... 1
Table 2. W&S in Lima Callao Region: Key Operational Performance Indicators, for
2008-2014 ......................................................................................................................... 11
Table 3. W&S in Lima Callao Region: Key Financial Performance Indicators, 2008-2014
........................................................................................................................................... 16
Table 4. Project Restructurings* ....................................................................................... 25
                                                        v


Principal Ratings
Peru: Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project - P008051
                                   ICR*                       ICR Review*                   PPAR
Outcome                         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                     Negligible to Low               Negligible to Low                Moderate
Development
Outcome
World Bank                      Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                        Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible World Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the
findings of the ICR.



Peru: National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project - P065256
                                  ICR                         ICR Review                     PPAR
Outcome                        Moderately                    Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                              Unsatisfactory
Risk to                             High                          High                          High
Development
Outcome
World Bank                     Moderately                    Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
Performance                   Unsatisfactory
Borrower                       Moderately                     Moderately                  Unsatisfactory
Performance                   Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


Key Staff Responsible
Peru: Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project - P008051
                                                        Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader               Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal                  Abel Mejia                 Eugene D. McCarthy                 Yoshiaki Abe
Completion          Menahem Libhaber                    Guang Zhe Chen              Carlos Felipe Jaramillo

Peru: National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project - P065256
                                                        Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader               Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal              Alexander Bakalian               Danny Leipziger                 Isabel Guerrero
Completion             Christophe Prevost               Wambui Gichuri             Livia Benavides (Acting)
                                                           vi


     Independent Evaluation Group Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through
                                        excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the World Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the World Bank’s
work is producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures
through the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25
percent of the World Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference
is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country
evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or World Bank management have requested assessments; and
those that are likely to generate important lessons.
     To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview World Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices
as appropriate.
     Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible World Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the
borrower for review. IEG incorporates both World Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the
borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current World Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      World Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the World Bank ensured quality at entry
of the operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring
adequate transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for World Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency (ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            vii


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) for two projects in the urban and rural water and sanitation
sectors of Peru supported by the World Bank and other development partners.

The Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project was approved in November
1994 for a total cost of US$306.2 million. This comprised an initial loan of US$150
million and additional financing of US$20 million from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD); and co-financing of US$156.2 million from
the Japan Bank for International Co-operation or JBIC (now Japan International Co-
operation Agency or JICA). Total project cost at completion was US$311.8 million.
The project was approved on November 22, 1994, and closed on March 31, 2009,
nearly eight years after the original closing date of June 30, 2001.

The National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project was approved on April 29,
2002 for a total cost of US$130.9 million. This was supported by an initial IBRD loan
of US$80 million and additional financing of US$30 million; and US$5 million of co-
financing from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The project
was restructured in May 2006, resulting in a significant downward revision of targets in
the results framework. The project cost at completion was US$121.5 million. The
project closed on June 30, 2013, four and a half years after the original closing date of
December 31, 2008.

The assessment is based on a review of all relevant documentation, interviews of World
Bank staff at headquarters and in the country office, and the findings of an IEG mission
that visited Peru during June-July 2015. Project performance was discussed with
government, state and municipal officials engaged with the projects, representatives of
donors, staff of the World Bank’s country office, and beneficiaries in different regions
through focus groups. The list of persons met during the mission is attached in
Appendix B. Their cooperation and assistance in preparing the report is gratefully
acknowledged.

Lessons learned from this assessment will be used as inputs into IEG’s forthcoming
evaluation of the World Bank Group’s support to the water and sanitation sector.

Copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government officials and implementing agencies
for their review. Comments from the implementing agency are attached in Appendix E.
                                             viii


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) assesses the development
effectiveness of two projects in Peru’s water supply and sanitation sector: (i) the Lima
Water Rehabilitation and Management Project and (ii) the National Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project.

The objective of the Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project was to
improve the efficiency of water and sanitation delivery in the Lima-Callao metropolitan
area. The project sought to promote water conservation, support the Lima water utility,
SEDAPAL's, privatization, rehabilitate damaged water supply and sewerage systems,
expand services to the urban poor in low-income neighborhoods, and support reforms
in the legal and institutional framework of the water and sanitation sector.

The objective of the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project was to
increase the sustainable use of water supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas and
small towns while emphasizing improvement in hygiene practices and training in
operations and maintenance.

Project performance and ratings

Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project. The overall development outcome
is rated moderately satisfactory. Relevance of the development objective is rated
substantial. The project addressed critical challenges in providing adequate and
sustainable water and sanitation services to the Lima-Callao metropolitan area, with a
growing population of over 10 million, nearly 35 percent of Peru’s population. The
momentum of privatizing SEDAPAL, the water utility, was somewhat diminished by
the presence of a “back-up” plan to strengthen SEDAPAL’s capacity in case the
privatization did not go through. Relevance of the development design is rated
substantial. The project's components were complementary and well-balanced for
achieving the project development objective, by covering water conservation, system
rehabilitation and expansion, institutional strengthening, and demand-side management.
The project design provided for capacity building and performance-linked financial
incentives for management and staff to keep the focus on achieving targets, in the event
that the proposed privatization was not realized.

The efficacy of the project is rated substantial, being underpinned by significant
physical and institutional achievements. The number of new water and sewerage
connections met or exceeded targets at project completion and the percentage coverage
of the population for water and sewerage services has been generally maintained in the
face of population increase since then. Targets were broadly met for water
conservation, loss reduction, per capita residential water demand, and operational and
financial indicators. Although the plans for privatizing SEDAPAL’s operations were
dropped by the government, the alternative approach of upgrading management
capacity and introducing performance-based incentives yielded the targeted physical
infrastructure and financial results. The achievements in expanding services to the
urban poor exceeded the revised targets; however, the pilot exercise for using low-cost
“condominial” water and sewerage networks did not yield significant results.
                                             ix


Efficiency is rated modest considering the implementation delays of nearly eight years
(beyond a planned 6.5-year project), due to multiple factors that were reasonably under
government or World Bank control, even though the ex-post economic rate of return
was very favorable. Risk to development outcome is rated moderate, given the still
large needs for infrastructure rehabilitation (which are being partly addressed through
follow-on projects) especially in the poorer northern Lima region; lack of adequate
coordination with urban planning; and the absence of a coherent strategy for ramping
up coverage to unserved peri-urban areas, which involves social, legal, and technical
challenges.

World Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on identical ratings for quality at
entry and of supervision. The project's design, and elements of the results framework,
were logically linked to achieving the project development objective, but, in retrospect,
the planned time-frame was optimistic, especially given the initial gaps in the state of
readiness for implementation and in procurement capacity. Lack of flexibility in certain
World Bank procurement norms prevailing at that time and delays in issuing “no-
objection” to bidding documents contributed to some extent to delays in project
implementation. Borrower performance is also rated moderately satisfactory, based on
moderately satisfactory government performance and satisfactory implementation
agency performance. In the government, institutional and bureaucratic differences
contributed to avoidable course changes and long delays in implementation. The
implementing agency, SEDAPAL, radically changed its corporate management
approach and work culture over the project period with increased focus on
performance.

National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project: The overall development outcome
is rated unsatisfactory. Relevance of the development objective is rated negligible
before and after restructuring (which was essentially a significant reduction in project
targets rather than a change in project objectives). At project appraisal, there was no
clear policy and institutional context to benchmark the country’s priorities and
strategies for rural water and sanitation services, and towards the end of the project, the
government rolled back the principle of cost recovery in providing infrastructure, which
was out of line with a basic premise of the project. Relevance of the project design is
rated substantial before and after restructuring. The project appropriately sought to
shift the sector from the prevalent supply-driven to a community-driven demand-
responsive approach, introduced co-financing by the municipalities and communities,
and provided for improving capacity at different levels.

In terms of the achievement of project objectives, the principal objective of increasing
the sustainable use of water supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas and small
towns is rated negligible before restructuring, when less that 10 percent of funds had
been disbursed, and modest after restructuring, with the actual number of people
connected to improved water supply and sanitation facilities falling significantly short
of even the downwardly revised targets. The first supporting objective of improving
hygiene practices is rated negligible before and after restructuring as an impact
evaluation did not see any significant differences in such behavior vis-à-vis non-project
control areas. The second supporting objective of improving training in operations and
maintenance is also rated negligible before and after restructuring due to a general lack
                                            x


of any discernible cost recovery for operations and maintenance, continuing lack of
capacity to manage the facilities, and lack of administrative and financial support down
the chain of government agencies, municipalities and local government, and rural
community water and sanitation services associations (JASS).

Efficiency is rated negligible before and after restructuring. The appraisal’s cost
valuation of US$107 per beneficiary rose nearly five-fold to US$486 per beneficiary at
project completion. Moreover, project implementation took 11 years, nearly twice the
originally planned six years. Risk to development outcome is rated high due to several
uncertainties regarding community participation and the viability of community-based
management of water and sanitation assets through JASS for reasons of lack of capacity
and incentives to carry out this function. Behavioral change for improved hygiene is
unlikely to get traction without frequent and longer term interventions.

World Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory based on unsatisfactory quality at
entry and moderately satisfactory quality of supervision. Costs of sub-projects were
greatly underestimated, as was the capacity of firms and nongovernmental
organizations that were given a big role in implementing the project’s social and
technical components. Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory, based on
moderately unsatisfactory government performance and unsatisfactory implementation
agency performance. Government support for and ownership of the project were
uneven over the project duration. The performance of the implementing agency was
negatively impacted by undue centralization, lack of adequate participation of local
level stakeholders, and inadequate monitoring and evaluation.

Lessons

A strong focus on project outcomes and adequate accountability mechanisms are
key factors to the achievement of significant improvements in service provision.
The project’s design focused on performance and outcomes, and provided for a
management contract between SEDAPAL and the line ministry with annual
performance targets, with arrangements for institutional capacity development and
performance-linked financial incentives, accompanied by effective monitoring.

Efforts to replicate successful experiences from other contexts must carefully take
into account the receptivity of the implementing institutions and beneficiaries. The
pilot effort to bring low-cost condominial networks to low-income peri-urban areas
yielded limited results and was eventually discontinued due to insufficient social
acceptance, the preference of beneficiaries for conventional networks, and the
reluctance of SEDAPAL and contractors to depart from conventional network norms
and methods. In retrospect, the receptivity of both beneficiaries as well as SEDAPAL
and the contractors was not adequately gauged.

Conserving water resources through demand and supply management can yield
quick benefits to liberate water resources for new clients. The project provides a
successful example of the comprehensive and synchronized application of demand and
supply management techniques to liberate water resources. These made it possible to
simultaneously achieve improved coverage and continuity of service in what had been,
                                             xi


before the project, a heavily constrained resource that was widely rationed. It also
provides a powerful illustration of the potential magnitude of customer response by
sending economic signals through the pricing of water.

Project design needs to address gaps and weaknesses in sector institutions and
governance identified during project preparation, failing which the risk to
achieving project outcomes and timely implementation is much increased. In this
project, the World Bank made an adequate diagnosis of the sector institutions, but
failed to make significant provisions to deal with them, thus affecting project
implementation.

The modalities of cost-sharing and community participation need to be adapted to
the local context and supplementary resources made available as needed. Many
municipalities did not have significant budgetary resources to participate in the project.
In addition, over time, rural communities became less inclined to contribute free labor
or local materials as other economic opportunities opened up. This affected contractor
interest and overall project progress. In such situations, alternative means should be
sought to fill the resource gap.

Community participation in planning and operations underpins sustainability, but
adequate training support, financial incentives, and contractual arrangements are
necessary for continued and effective participation. JASS are seen as key to the
operations and maintenance of rural water and sanitation facilities. In practice, they
have generally not been effective and there is a lot of turnover, due to insufficient
capacity and financial resources. It appears that well-organized and trained people may
assume the management, operation, and maintenance of rural facilities, but to ensure
sustainability, there needs to be provision for training, a contractual arrangement of
accountability, and compensation.

Behavioral change for improved water and sanitation-related hygiene requires
ongoing engagement with the community and collaboration with health and
education sectors. The effort to change and sustain hygiene-related behavior needs to
go much beyond sporadic visits to communities by extension staff during the project. It
is important to reinforce the messages after the project; doing this requires a multi-
sectoral approach that includes not only the health and education sectors but also the
private sector, to the extent possible. Continuous training of frontline workers and
delivery of such training through local governments appears to be key to this effort.



                                                                 Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                  Director, Independent Evaluation Group
                                                             Financial, Private Sector, and
                                                    Sustainable Development Department
                                                1


1. Background
        Peru has a population of about 31 million, with 78 percent living in urban areas and
22 percent living in rural areas. The country has a varied topography with a coastal plain in
the west, high rugged mountains in its center (the Andes), and a lowland jungle in the east
that leads into the Amazon River Basin. From 2004 to 2013, the country’s economy grew on
average by 6.4 percent. Between 2004 and 2010, about 4 million people exited poverty, with
the poverty rate falling from 49 percent to 31 percent. Despite these impressive results, a
great deal of disparity remains across the country: 60 percent of the poor reside in rural areas
and over 61percent of those living in the highlands are poor.

Sector Background
          In 2015, 87 percent of the Peru’s population had access to improved water supply.1.
This is significantly below the average for the Latin America and Caribbean region (95
percent) and broadly comparable to that of its neighbors Colombia (91 percent) and Ecuador
(87 percent). In terms of access to improved sanitation,2 Peru (76 percent) lags significantly
behind the Latin America and Caribbean region (83 percent), Colombia (81 percent), and
Ecuador (85 percent). (Table 1)

        During the five-year period from 2010 to 2015, national access to improved water
supply in Peru has marginally increased from 85 percent to 87 percent, and for improved
sanitation from 72 percent to 76 percent. During the same period, in urban areas, the access
to water supply has remained stagnant at 91 percent, while in rural areas, there has been a
modest improvement from 64 percent to 69 percent. Access to improved sanitation in urban
areas shows a small improvement from 80 percent to 83 percent; while in rural areas there
was a significant increase from 45 percent to 53 percent. (Table 1)

Table 1. Trends in Access to Improved Water Supply and Sanitation
                     Access to Improved Water Supply        Access to Improved Sanitation
                      (% of population with access)          (% of population with access)
                     ALL          Urban         Rural      ALL          Urban          Rural
     Years       2010 2015 2010 2015 2010 2015 2010 2015 2010 2015 2010 2015
      Peru        85     87      91    91     64     69 72     76     80     83      45     53
    Colombia      91     91      97    97     73     74 79     81     85     85      63     68
    Ecuador       85     87      92    93     73     76 81     85     85     87      73     81
     LAC*         93     95      97    97     80     84 81     83     87     88      59     64
Source: World Development Indicators
* Latin America and the Caribbean Region

1
 An improved drinking water source is defined as one that, by nature of its construction or through
active intervention, is protected from outside contamination, in particular from fecal matter
contamination (for example, borewells, piped water as opposed to surface drinking water sources).
2
 An improved sanitation facility is defined as one that hygienically separates human excreta from
human contact (for example, a pit latrine with slab, flush/pour flush to sewer system; as opposed to
open defecation or shared sanitation facilities).
                                              2

         The government decentralized water sector operations in 1989, when all
responsibilities for water supply and sanitation service provision were transferred to local
governments. With the exception of the water utilities in Lima and Trujillo, all subsidiary
sector companies were decentralized. In 1992, the Ministry of the Presidency assumed
responsibility for sector developing policies, favoring viable and autonomous water
companies, and established a special privatization committee for SEDAPAL, the Lima water
utility, to promote private sector participation. In addition, in 1994, the government
established SUNASS (Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de Saneamiento or
Superintendency of Sanitary Services) as the regulator for the sector. The water and
sanitation reform also included the enactment of the Water and Sanitation Services Law in
1994, as well as the preparation of accompanying regulations.

        Between 1992 and 1997, total investments in Peru’s rural water and sanitation sector
increased from US$15 to US$88 million per year, mostly through FONCODES (Fondo
Nacional de Cooperación para el Desarrollo or the National Fund of Cooperation for
Development) and nongovernmental organizations, but decreased significantly by the early
2000s due to the closing of external loans and FONCODES’ loss of prominence.
FONCODES represented more than 75 percent of all rural water supply and sanitation
(WSS) investments between 1992 and 2000, and is reported to have built, improved, or
rehabilitated approximately 13,000 rural water and sanitation systems.

        However, baseline studies carried out in 2002 in preparation for the National Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRONASAR) showed that around 80 percent of
existing rural water and sanitation systems required additional investments for rehabilitation
and 20 percent were not operational, indicating a significant lack of sustainability of
investments. At that time, about 62 percent of Peru's rural population had adequate water
supply services—defined as access to either piped systems feeding household connections,
yard taps or public standposts, or to point sources such as wells—and approximately 30
percent of Peru's rural population has access to either onsite or (occasionally) piped
sanitation systems.

        Lima’s water supply and sanitation system is one of the most complex and
challenging in Latin America, being situated on the arid Peruvian coast in an area of small
rivers and low rainfall. The city relies on surface water from the Rimac, Chillon, and Lurin
Rivers (which are augmented by flows from two inter-basin transfers), as well as
groundwater from the Rimac-Chillon and Lurin aquifers. Although groundwater is
conjunctively used to diversify water resources in a scarce environment, its use requires
careful and prudent usage given a series of challenges such as limited recharge, salinity, and
saltwater intrusion, as well as impacts of overdraft that can lead to land subsidence.
Moreover, climate change will significantly reduce the city’s future water supplies,
increasing scarcity, variability, and uncertainty.

       Lima’s water and sanitation challenges have been exacerbated in recent decades by
unplanned growth from internal migration from rural areas. The high rates of urbanization
have put a strain on existing infrastructure, particularly in districts with higher concentrations
of low-income households within Northern Lima. While water supply coverage in the Lima-
Callao area has expanded over the years and stands at 93.5 percent in 2014 with average
                                               3


water availability of 21.6 hours a day, these figures conceal wide disparities in service quality
between the central and peri-urban sections of Lima. Lack of public water services continue
to affect the more distant and marginalized areas, with an estimated 1.2 million poor
residents still lacking access to safe drinking water and sanitation in peri-urban areas within
the outskirts of Lima and Callao. Many of those without any access to the main water supply
have to purchase water from private vendors at prices up to 12 times higher than those
receiving water through public service providers.3 Overall, a majority of residents
experience very low water pressure and discontinuity of water services.4

        SEDAPAL, the water utility responsible for water and sanitation service provision in
the Lima metropolitan area, had suffered more than a decade of low tariffs, inadequate
management, and spiraling costs in the period leading up to the Lima Water Rehabilitation
and Management Project. In the early 1990s, some important steps were taken, including
raising the average water tariff several times and cutting the workforce which helped to
enhance the cost-recovery capacity and financial health of the utility. However, many
operational deficiencies remained to be addressed to improve the company’s efficiency and
financial sustainability. The government set out to privatize SEDAPAL in the early 1990s
(through a proposed long-term concession to private operators) which helped attract
significant sums of public money to be used in the mitigation of the most urgent problems
(including the Lima Water Rehabilitation and management project). Due to the complexity
and the techno-political risks involved, privatization was postponed several times and
eventually cancelled in 1997.

       Going forward, SEDAPAL’s task of covering the huge and expanding area of Lima is
made even more difficult by continuing and uncontrolled migration and a lack of sufficient
coordination with the urban planning function. In many portions of the Lima-Callao region,
water and sewerage networks are in poor physical condition with frequent leaks, blockages,
and breaks, mainly due to community self-construction using sub-standard techniques and
materials. There are technical and economic constraints to expand the utility’s conventional
networks and therefore require non-network or non-conventional service delivery solutions.

World Bank Support for Peru’s Water and Sanitation Sector

        The World Bank’s involvement in water sanitation in the past 15 years has been
principally through the two projects being assessed in this report. The ongoing Optimization
of Lima Water and Sewerage Project (P117293) aims to improve the efficiency, continuity,
and reliability of water supply and sanitation services in the Northern area of Lima, which
has the highest physical and non-revenue water losses in the region. In addition, in the
broader water sector, the World Bank recently completed the Water Resources Management

3
 Aguilar-Barajas, Ismael, Jürgen Mahlknecht, Jonathan Kaledin, Marianne Kjellén, Abel Mejía-
Betancourt eds. 2015.Water and Cities in Latin America: Challenges for Sustainable Development.
Earthscan studies in water resources management. [[AQ: this should be in the references list, not
footnoted. Please use author-date citation system in the text.]]
4
 According to the Association for ACME: An International E-Journal for Critical Geographies, 2015,
14(4), 1161 – 1186.[[AQ: again, this should be in references list, not footnoted.]]
                                               4


Project (P107666), which addressed the management of water resources through the
strengthening of the borrower's capacity for participatory, integrated, basin-scale water
resources management at the central level and in selected river basins. The World Bank has
also provided reimbursable advisory services (RAS) on “Increasing Water Supply and
Sanitation Services in Peri-Urban Areas of Lima” (P149453 and P151314) with the objective
of supporting SEDAPAL in the development of non-conventional water supply and
sanitation solutions for poor populations residing in peri-urban areas of metropolitan Lima.

2. Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
       The project development objective in the loan agreement is stated as follows:

       “To improve the efficiency of water and sanitation delivery in the Lima-Callao
       metropolitan area. The project will promote water conservation, support privatization
       of SEDAPAL (Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima), Lima’s water
       utility, rehabilitate damaged water supply and sewerage systems, expand services to
       the urban poor in the pueblos jovenes [low-income neighborhoods]."

         The project development objective in the project appraisal document also mentions
"... and support reforms in the legal and institutional framework of the water and sanitation
sector.". This aspect is covered as part of this assessment, given the presence of an
institutional development component (see section on “components and costs”).

COMPONENTS AND COSTS

The project comprised four components as below:

        Water Conservation (cost at appraisal, US$44.2 million; at completion, US$74.7
million). This had two sub-components. The first was a program for reducing unaccounted-
for water, including the preparation of a customer cadastre, reconstruction of substandard
water meters, and installation of 406,000 new water meters for 56 percent of Lima-Callao
customers of SEDAPAL. The second developed conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
in three areas of Lima where groundwater was depleted and saline contamination presented a
threat.

        Rehabilitation (cost at appraisal, US$148.90; at completion, US$145.97 million). This
had three sub-components. The first was to rehabilitate water supply networks in the
metropolitan area, the second to rehabilitate sewer networks in those same districts, and the
third to rehabilitate 39 wells with diminished yields and provide equipment for 85 new wells.

       Service Expansion (cost at appraisal, US$40.10 million; at completion, US$51.32
million) This component sought to finance works to serve upwards of 600,000 low-income
people in the poorer peri-urban areas of Lima-Callao. Works included transmission lines,
pumping stations, reservoirs, interceptors, and waste water treatment plants. In March 2003,
                                             5


the World Bank approved an additional loan for extending services to the remaining 130,000
of the originally targeted 600,000 people in low-income peri-urban areas.

        Institutional Strengthening (cost at appraisal, US$18.80 million; at completion,
US$39.79 million). This included resources for consultant services, training, equipment, and
logistical support in six thematic areas: operational management assistance, modernization of
financial management, assistance to transform SEDAPAL from being a direct service
provider to being more of a contract administrator, capacity-building for a newly-created
National Superintendence for Sanitary Services (SUNASS), baseline studies supporting a
water basin authority in the region, and feasibility studies to analyze different waste water
disposal options and a water treatment plant.

        Without changing the overall project development objective, some of the physical
targets were revised and funds reallocated at the mid-term review (MTR) in July 1998. This
was required mainly to accommodate an increase in engineering design and civil works
supervision costs for Component B covering rehabilitation. Consequently, feasibility studies
for waste water disposal were financed by a grant from the Japanese Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC).

PROJECT FINANCING AND DATES

        Overall project costs at completion were US$311.8 million. This was slightly higher
than the appraised estimate of US$306.2 million, which included physical and price
contingencies of US$25.20 million and US$29 million, respectively. Although the actual cost
for rehabilitation (US$145.97 million) was almost the same as at appraisal (US$148.90
million), the costs were significantly higher for the other three components: water
conservation (69 percent), network expansion (28 percent), and institutional support (112
percent). These increases were covered almost entirely by the physical and price
contingencies. Actual borrower contribution was US$63.0 million compared to US$81.1
million estimated at appraisal.

       In March 2003, the World Bank approved additional financing of US$20 million to
meet the targets for new connections in Lima-Callao’s poor neighborhoods under Component
C (service expansion). This was done because FONAVI (Fondo Nacional de Vivienda), the
housing agency, collapsed midway through the project due to accumulated bad debts at a
time when only two-thirds of the targeted 302,000 new beneficiaries had been connected to
the new water supply and sanitation system, which had excess capacity. The World Bank’s
additional financing, together with an extra US$1.7 million from JBIC, covered the US$17
million shortfall in the borrower's contribution and the increased expenditures of US$5.6
million.

        The project spanned 15 years against the planned implementation period of about 6.5
years from November 1994 to June 2001. First, there was an 18-month delay until project
effectiveness pending action on tariff regulations. Second, an additional 24 months (from
June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2003) was granted to allow for the submission of the additional
financing request, following which the project was extended until December 31, 2006.
Finally, the closing date of the project was extended until March 31, 2009, due to difficulties
                                               6


encountered by SEDAPAL in implementing the additional works. Other factors that
contributed to the delay are discussed in some detail under “Implementation.”

RELEVANCE

Objectives

         The relevance of objectives is rated substantial. The project addressed the efficiency
of water and sanitation delivery in the Lima-Callao metropolitan area, with a population of
6.4 million at project appraisal, and presently over 10 million, being nearly 32 percent of
Peru’s population. At appraisal, Lima-Callao faced low water and sewerage services
coverage, especially in peri-urban areas; inefficiencies in the production and distribution of
potable water; and weak financial and operational performance of the water utility,
SEDAPAL. The project development objectives were consistent with the borrower's
commitment to the Millennium Development Goals of reducing poverty and improving
access of the poor to safe water and, in particular, to the government’s targets for extending
water and sanitation services to some 600,000 poor inhabitants of unserved urban and peri-
urban areas, improving services to over 1.5 million residents, and strengthening public
utilities. The project objectives remain relevant to Goal 6 of the Sustainable Development
Goals—“to ensure availability of sustainable management of water and sanitation for all”. In
retrospect, including support for privatization of SEDAPAL in the project development
objectives seems ambitious given the political constraints that would have been apparent
even at project appraisal.

        The project development objectives were consistent with: (i) the World Bank’s
country assistance strategy (FY1995-1997) for Peru, especially for alleviating poverty,
rehabilitating critically damaged infrastructure, and supporting the private sector in utility
service delivery; (ii) two of the three pillars of the country partnership strategy (FY2007-11),
namely, economic growth, with its emphasis on increasing physical infrastructure including
the water sector, and social development, with its focus on improving the basic living
conditions of the poor, including improved water and sanitation; and (iii) the country
assistance strategy (FY2012-2016) with its strategic results area (2.1) of improved supply of
water and sanitation services under the broader objective of connecting the poor to services
and markets.

DESIGN

        The relevance of design is rated substantial. The project's design and elements of the
results framework were directly linked to achieving the project development objective. The
efficiency of water and sanitation delivery was sought to be improved through water
conservation, system rehabilitation and expansion, and institutional strengthening, especially
the organizational transformation of SEDAPAL. The project had a large number of —nine
outcome and 18 intermediate outcome indicators—but they were appropriately selected and
balanced across the outputs and intermediate outcomes as explained in more detail in the
following section, “Monitoring and Evaluation.”
                                             7


        A concession process to turn SEDAPAL's operation over to private firms and
consortia had already been initiated by the government at appraisal. However, the World
Bank retained an alternative approach in the project design to protect the project’s viability
with or without the concession of SEDAPAL and included this provision in the legal
documents. The alternative approach was to focus on improving the institutional capacity of
SEDAPAL through training and technical assistance, and formulating financial incentives for
the management and staff for good performance. While this flexibility may have been
justified to ensure that the project implementation would not be jeopardized, the lack of any
privatization indicators in the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework (discussed in the
next section) suggests that privatization was not considered a likely outcome, thus sending
conflicting signals between the privatization objective and project design.

        Additional financing of US$20 million provided in 2003 incorporated the
implementation of a pilot low-cost “condominial” approach for water and sewerage
expansion in low-income peri-urban areas. While this approach was well-founded, it had to
contend with uneven acceptance by potential beneficiary communities and insufficient
support and commitment from SEDAPAL and contractors. However, the project was
successful in incorporating the concept of social and technical intervention at the community
level; this was a complete change of culture within SEDAPAL as they were being requested
to include social specialists in their teams, with lower budgets for works but a more
intensive and long-term involvement. This, however, caused a reaction and those with vested
interests in continuing with the conventional system managed to make the Government go
back on its decision to scale up the initiative. This is further discussed in the sections on
“Implementation” and “Efficacy.”

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

        M&E Design: The project had a large number of key performance indicators—nine
for outcomes and 18 for intermediate outcomes—but they were appropriate, measurable, and
well balanced across the four project components. The indicators covered physical
infrastructure (for example, the percentage increase in water and sanitation coverage), quality
of client service delivery (for example, continuity of service and installation of pumping
stations), rationalization of demand (number of installed water meters and average domestic
consumption), and organizational efficiency and productivity attributes (for example,
measured by SEDAPAL’s indicators, such as working capital ratio and labor productivity per
1,000 connections). The intermediate outcome indicators were appropriately selected to
measure the operational effectiveness of water conservation activities and the rehabilitation
and expansion of water and sanitation services. The outcome indicators were focused on
improving the efficiency of the water and sanitation delivery system in the Lima-Callao
metropolitan area in keeping with the project development objective. In retrospect, the wide
scope of this project would have warranted additional intermediate outcome and outcome
indicators to track the improvement in public health and sanitation conditions to reflect the
ultimate objectives and impacts of providing water and sanitation services. Additionally,
SEDAPAL has taken the initiative of benchmarking itself against seven leading utilities in
the region, though this information was not made available to the IEG mission.
                                               8


        M&E Implementation: SEDAPAL was well equipped to track most agreed indicators,
as demonstrated by the figures provided in the section on “Efficacy.” The key performance
indicators were tracked throughout project implementation by SEDAPAL. The World Bank’s
supervision missions regularly received the information required to analyze performance and
identify issues needing attention.

        M&E Utilization: The regular flow of monitoring data helped the World Bank team
to work with the borrower and implementing agency to: (i) appropriately change the focus
and funding priorities of the project over its long, 15-year duration, particularly in the wake
of the government’s decision not to privatize SEDAPAL; and (ii) recommend additional
financing, as explained in more detail in the section on “Implementation.” SEDAPAL’s
management voluntarily introduced a performance agreement with the government’s asset
holding company (FONAFE) to link staff bonuses and incentives to the achievement of
operational and efficiency targets. SEDAPAL officials indicated that the benchmarking of
financial performance was being carried out in the context of SEDAPAL’s credit rating, with
a medium-term objective of being publicly listed.

M&E Quality is rated Substantial.

Implementation
        The project preparation took place against the backdrop of the government’s decision
to award a 30-year concession contract for SEDAPAL with a required minimum investment
program of US$3 billion. At Board approval of the project in November 1994, three
international consortiums were already pre-qualifying to bid for the concession. However,
during the run-up to general elections in mid-1995, the government decided to postpone the
final bid submission date for the concession. Following its re-election, the government
gradually decided not to go ahead with privatization.

        The project was scheduled to begin by mid-1994 and be completed by end-2000.
However, the project faced delays at different stages due to various reasons. Initially, project
implementation was delayed by about 18 months. Conflicting provisions in the
Municipalities Act and the General Law of Sanitation Services needed to be resolved, which
delayed loan effectiveness until August 31, 1995. Linking project effectiveness to the
approval of these acts appears to be an informed decision by the Bank to keep this process on
track. The approval of the parallel financing did not become effective until 1996. The
Project Administration Unit did not have experience with the World Bank’s procurement
guidelines and needed additional time to prepare bidding documents, which took 12 months
longer than expected during the first bid for civil works. The Project Implementation Plan
estimated a period of 180 days for the contracting of civil works. However, this overlooked
the need to develop adequate technical documentation to support the bidding documents,
resulting in the completion of initial contracting processes stretching to 300 to 400 days. An
international firm was selected competitively to help with procurement which ultimately
helped to streamline the process.

       The original closing date of June 30, 2001 was extended three times by a total of 18
months as a direct result of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) agreement that imposed
                                            9


annual investment ceilings on all public agencies and consequently delayed project execution
during its final three years. Another extension was granted until June 30, 2003, for an
additional financing request for US$20 million under the service expansion component of the
project, following which the closing date was further extended until December 31, 2006. A
final extension was made until March 31, 2009, due to difficulties encountered by
SEDAPAL to implement the additional works, which were undertaken using the condominial
approach that was new to the sector in Peru.

        Other factors that contributed to the overall delay related to specific procurement
issues, and teething problems for SUNASS, the regulatory agency. A six-month delay
resulted from dealing with a dumping claim by a local producer against a Chinese firm that
was contracted through international competitive bidding (ICB). A tax surcharge was applied
to the imported water meters, which had to be paid by SEDAPAL. Ultimately, the borrower
decided to finance the metering program with its own resources, while the resources from the
World Bank loan were reallocated to buy the valves needed for the installation of the water
meters.

         The newly created regulatory agency, SUNASS – whose formation which strongly
supported by the Bank during project preparation – experienced a number of problems during
the first five years of project implementation from a lack of autonomy in decision making,
and limited institutional and technical capacity. While these issues were ultimately
addressed, delays were experienced initially in approving tariff regulations that were a
condition for project effectiveness, as well as delays in the authorization to apply tariff
increases scheduled by the regulator.

        Since regulations in place at the time did not permit SEDAPAL to build the
secondary distribution networks in the pueblos jovenes mainly due to titling issues,
responsibility for achieving this key objective of the original World Bank project was divided
between SEDAPAL and FONAVI (Fondo Nacional de Vivienda), the housing agency.
SEDAPAL undertook the extension of the trunk water mains towards the pueblos jovenes,
with finance from the network expansion component of the World Bank project. Meanwhile,
the secondary networks needed to connect the primary infrastructure to the local residents,
were separately funded by the housing finance agency, FONAVI, which lent money to local
residents who then contracted the construction of the works. This arrangement broke down in
2000, when FONAVI was dissolved due to an accumulation of bad debts. This meant that the
project was only able to reach 82 percent of the population originally targeted by the end of
2002, and left a portion of the trunk mains financed under the project without connection to
the intended beneficiaries. Additional financing of US$20 million was extended to fill the
gap left by FONAVI to extend services to the remaining 130,000 people from the originally
targeted population. This included the implementation of the “condominial” approach for
water and sewerage expansion in low-income areas, which faced constraints on various
fronts as discussed in the section on “Efficacy.” The documentation relating to the Additional
Financing does not mention any other financial implications to the project from the transfer
of responsibility from FONAVI to SEDAPAL.

SAFEGUARDS AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE
                                               10


        The project was classified as Category B for purposes of OP 4.01 for Environmental
Assessment. All the implementation status and results reports (ISR) rated safeguards
performance as satisfactory, and the team reported that the project was in compliance with
safeguard polices at the end that project, although no evidence was presented. Given the
nature of the project’s water and sanitation civil works, the most likely impacts were short-
term, localized, and manageable construction nuisances in highly-populated areas, such as
increased dust, traffic congestion, or pedestrian safety, and programmed water shut-offs. The
project dealt with complaints and resistance to works by carrying out advance public
dissemination of information about upcoming work schedules and having contractors
participate in training sessions on facilitating dialogue with the local population where
necessary. There were no reports of any resettlement or land acquisition being necessitated
by the project. The project expected to have had a positive effect on the environment as a
result of increased sewerage coverage in the project area.

         The financial management of the project was carried out in accordance with the
arrangements stipulated in the legal documents. Procurement processes improved noticeably
after start-up problems in the first few years, as explained in some detail in the section on
“Implementation.” Annual project audits were conducted in accordance with international
standards, although there were some delays in submission. No incidence was noted of non-
compliance with fiduciary procedures giving rise to qualified audits.

Achievement of Objectives
       Achievement of the project development objective—to improve efficiency in
provision of water supply and sewerage services in Lima Metropolitan Area through water
conservation, demand management and privatization of SEDAPAL’s operations—is rated
substantial.

        Attribution. The project was embedded within a much broader US$600 million
investment, of which the World Bank financed 25 percent. Investments by other donors and
government of about US$300 million outside of the World Bank-financed project included
acquisition of critical fixed assets, rehabilitation, systems expansion, additional water
conservation efforts as well as studies related to the optimization in the use of available water
resources. While it is difficult to separate the World Bank’s financing specific contribution to
the achievement of project objectives, it is noted that the World Bank played a key role in
ensuring that an adequate institutional framework was in place and in keeping the focus on
outcomes, which can be considered critical factors in the project’s success.

        The efficiency in provision of water supply and sewerage services is reflected it the
following indicators: Number of new connections, volume of water produced, water
availability in hours per day, number of employees per 1,000 connections, and personnel
costs as a share of operating cost.

        At project completion in 2008, almost all these outcome indicators had been met or
exceeded. Updated data until 2014 obtained by the IEG mission show that there has been
significant progress for these indicators while others have been maintained at similar levels.
                                                11


This performance is considered in the context of the estimated population growth in the
Lima-Callao region since 2008 of about 15 percent. 5

        New and rehabilitated water supplies and sewerage connections reached 633,000
people in the targeted areas (target 578,000). This included 307,000 new water connections
(target 302,000). New and rehabilitated sewerage systems reached 432,400 people, more than
twice the target of 202,600. This included 148,000 new connections (target 108,900). Figures
obtained from SEDAPAL show in an increase of the total number of connections have
increased from 1,231 million at project completion in 2009 to 1.438 million by end-2014.

      Volume of water produced has increased from 658.7 million cubic meters at project
completion to 687.6 million cubic meters by end-2014.

        Average daily water supply duration increased from 11.5 to 21.5 hours a day during
the project period, which has been maintained approximately at the same level till 2014.
Total water connections increased from 763,000 in 1994 to 1,231,000 in 2008, and further
increased significantly to 1,428,000 by 2014.

        The number of employees per 1000 connections which was 1.77 at project completion
(target 1.96) has dropped further to 1.70 by end-2014.

       Similarly, the personnel costs as a share of operating costs decreases from 22.0
percent at project completion to 19.2 percent by end-2014.

Table 2. Water and Sanitation in the Lima Callao Region: Key Operational
Performance Indicators, for 2008-2014
                                   End of Project
    Indicator                                        2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014
                                   Target   Actual
    Number of connections (‘000)            1,231    1,293   1,318   1,344   1,387   1,412   1,438
    Water coverage (% of            83      91.0     92.5    92.8    92.8    93.4    93.5    93.5
    population)
    Sewerage coverage (% of         81       90.4    91.6    92.0    89.8    90.3    90.3    90.3
    population)
    Metering coverage (% of         46       70.3    68.8    69.2    77.3    81.5    82.5    82.6
    connections)
    Total average consumption       188     155.0    146.8   146.0   148.4   152.9   153.3   152.3
    (liters/day)
    Volume of water produced (m.     -      658.7    671.6   680.8   683.2   682.4   679.9   687.6
    cu.m)
    Volume of water billed (m.       -      414.9    415.9   423.6   447.0   472.4   482.8   487.3
    cu.m)
    Physical water losses (%)       29       24.0    N.A     N.A     N.A     N.A     N.A     N.A
    Non-Revenue Water (%)           41       37.0    38.1    37.8    34.6    30.8    29.0    29.1



5
 "Perú: Estimaciones Y Proyecciones De Población Total Por Sexo de Las Principales Ciudades".
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informatica (INEI) (in Spanish). Scribd. March 2012. p. 32.
Retrieved 14 March 2014.
                                                12

 Water availability/ continuous     -    21.5        21.6   21.7   21.8   21.9   21.9    21.6
 water offerings (average hours a
 day)
Source: SEDAPAL

        The outputs and intermediate outputs that contributed to the project development
objective consisted of the following: water conservation, demand management, rehabilitation
of damaged water supply and sewerage systems, and privatization/institutional strengthening
– each of which is described below.

Water conservation

        Physical losses were reduced as a result of the Supply Management Program from
31percent in 1994 to 24 percent in 2008, leading to a saving of 2.5 cubic meters /s (as against
a target of 1.3 cubic meters/s) and lower costs. SEDAPAL did not provide updated
information of physical water losses. However, non-revenue water losses have fallen
significantly from 37.0 percent in 2008 to 29.1 percent in 2014.

        Groundwater use fell from 8.6 m3/s to 5.3 m3/s through investments combining use
of surface and groundwater at project completion. This reduced the groundwater deficit. No
updated information was available in this respect.

       There were no specific efficiency indicators in the project to measure efficiency of
sewerage improvements. However, sewerage collection coverage improved with 384,000
people benefiting from sewerage system improvement and 148,000 people benefiting from
network expansion at project completion. The percentage of population covered by sewerage
remained at approximately 90.4 percent since 2008, and has thus has kept up with population
growth during the period.

Demand Management

        Various outputs contributed to improved demand management:

       The share of metered connections increased from 3.8 percent in 1994 to 70 percent in
        2008 and further to 82.6 percent by 2014. The customer cadastre was updated
        reaching 971,095 customers; 330,121 water meter boxes were rehabilitated, and
        426,712 new water meters and 689,000 valves were acquired and installed. Water
        savings from the metering program was 6.2 cubic meters per second (cubic meter/s)
        by 2008; no updated numbers were available for 2014.
       Water billing increased from 59 percent of all water produced in 1994 to 63 percent
        in 2008 to 71 percent by 2014.
       Average combined water and sewerage tariff increased 61percent in real terms from
        1994 to 2008, and reached the marginal cost by 2008. Between 2008 and 2014, the
        average combined tariff has increased from US0.70/cubic meter in 2008 to
        US$0.96/cubic meter in 2014.
       Conjunctive use of surface and ground water sources in the areas of San Miguel, Los
        Olivos and Callao, resulted in the completed works substantially exceeding those
        originally projected allowing 92.3 kilometers of the distribution network to be
                                                   13


        connected to La Atarjea treatment plant and divided in sectors as part of the central
        mains sectorization program.

        Overall, per capita residential consumption decreased by 34 percent, from 236 liters
per capita per day (l/c/d) in 1994 to 155 l/c/d in 2008, and slightly lower at 152.3 l/c/d by
2014. This is reflected in overall demand being reduced from 729 million cubic meters/day in
1994 to 659 million cubic meters/day in 2008 (target was 890 million cubic meters/day). This
has increased marginally to 687 million cubic meters/day by 2014. Table 2 summarizes the
key performance indicators for improved efficiency and coverage, updated until 2014.

Rehabilitation of damaged water supply and sewerage systems

        New and rehabilitated water supplies and sewerage connections reached 633,000
people in the targeted areas (target 578,000). This included 307,000 new water connections
(target 302,000). New and rehabilitated sewerage systems reached 432,400 people, more than
twice the target of 202,600. This included 148,000 new connections (target 108,900).

        Around 1995, through its strategic plan, SEDAPAL implemented sectoralization (a
sector can have up to 15,000 connections) for improving the grid and optimizing it; to better
locate sources of leaks, plan rehabilitation; and move towards fully automated and centrally
controlled distribution of water using a SCADA6 system. Changes were made from pre-
stressed concrete pipes to light strength polymer, which is low cost almost like PVC. Micro-
measurement systems were installed to reduce levels of unaccounted water. Global
diaphragm walls were used for reservoirs; and valves were replaced with modern digital
ones. While the SCADA system coverage is close to 100 percent, information is sometimes
inconsistent, and the system is in need of an upgrade with automated control systems.

        As explained in some detail in the section on “Implementation,” additional financing
of US$20 million was extended in 2004 to contribute to the gap left by the financial collapse
of FONAVI, and to extend services to the remaining 130,000 people from the originally
targeted number of 302,000 new beneficiaries in low income peri-urban neighborhoods to
connect to the new water supply and sanitation system. With the additional financing,
SEDAPAL was able to provide water and sanitation service to an additional 164,000 people,
surpassing its original goal by 11 percent at an incremental cost of 28 percent.

        The effort to connect people in low-income peri-urban neighborhoods included the
implementation of the “condominial” approach – a low-cost sewerage network technology
used most successfully in Brazil to reduce significantly investment costs and service tariffs
by up to 40 percent through the joint connection by blocks rather than more traditional and
more expensive individual connections (see Appendix C). However this approach required
significant community cooperation, and responsibility for maintenance. Specific figures of
households connected through condominial networks were not made available to the mission,

6
  Acronym for supervisory control and data acquisition, a computer system for gathering and analyzing real
time data. A SCADA system gathers information, such as where a leak on a pipeline has occurred, transfers the
information back to a central site, alerting the home station that the leak has occurred, and carrying out
necessary analysis and control. (Source: Webopedia.com)
                                              14


and may not have been updated at all. However, it is clear that this number is very small
compared to conventional network connections. After making a strong and commendable
effort, the condominial approach was essentially discontinued, and the project administrative
unit looking after this task was dissolved. The Agua para todos (APT) program that was
begun in 2006 adopted the condominial approach, but the APT itself ran into governance
issues and was withdrawn.

        The condominial experiment warrants a deeper examination to draw lessons for
future efforts of this kind, and the mission met with retired engineers that were involved in
developing the condominial systems in Lima’s peri-urban areas as well as social promoters
that worked with the beneficiary communities. The mission also visited a peri-urban
community District Ventanilla-Cono Norte, which has a functioning condominial system. An
account of this the findings from this visit is included as Appendix C.

        Overall, the execution of condominial works faced difficulties related to (i) lack of
legal property deeds for some of the beneficiaries, (ii) high entry costs incurred by the
beneficiaries, (iii) diminished project credibility given the time lag between the development
of workshops and the execution of the works for project beneficiaries, (iv) preference of
conventional networks on part of the beneficiaries; and (v) lack of ownership, interest and
flexibility on the part of SEDAPAL and contractors After lack of activity on this front for
several years, SEDAPAL has decided to go with conventional system after 2013 for peri-
urban areas. More recently, the Government has requested advice from the Bank through
Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) for increasing W&S services in Peri-Urban Areas of
Lima through the development of non-conventional water supply and sanitation solutions for
poor populations residing in peri-urban areas of Metropolitan Lima.

Privatization/Institutional Strengthening

         At the time of appraisal, the government had initiated the process of handing over
SEDAPAL’s operation over to private firms/consortia. Subsequently, a full concession did
not prove to politically feasible. As an alternative approach that was built into the project
design, SEDAPAL went through a major upgrading of management capacity through a series
of management training programs aimed at changing the culture and mind-set of the
management. This effort involved doubling the resources dedicated to the project’s
institutional support component (from US $19 million to US $40 million). The incentive
framework was changed so that management performance was measured in terms of results
achieved, and bonuses were tied to meeting or exceeding pre-set outcome targets.

        Furthermore, while a full concession did not prove to be politically possible,
SEDAPAL engaged in other more limited forms of private participation. These included the
awarding of a Build-Own-Transfer (BOT) contract for a water treatment plan on the Chillon
River, as well as increasing the outsourcing of many company functions, such as
maintenance services, meter-reading, and leasing of vehicles and other equipment. The
World Bank assisted in the preparation of the feasibility studies of the Chillon water
treatment plant and advised in the BOT bidding process through workshops and provision of
expert consultants.
                                            15


       Following the government's decision to abandon the concession model for
SEDAPAL, the company went through an intense process of managerial reforms designed to
bring about institutional development within the public sector. The very wide range of
measures taken included a major reform of the company's human resource policies, as well as
the adoption of modern software for commercial, accounting, and administration processes,
among others.

       An important institutional change was the signing of Management Contracts between
SEDAPAL and the line Ministry determining annual performance targets, an innovation
introduced by the World Bank loan agreement in the absence of the concession. Annual
Management Agreements were also signed with the government's asset holding entity
FONAFE, under the Ministry of Finance, linking staff salary bonuses with the achievement
of corporate performance objectives.

        From discussions with the task team as well as the representative of a leading bilateral
lender in Peru, the positive change in managerial culture at SEDAPAL appears to be very
significant. The training and incentive frameworks changes can be reasonably linked to
improved technical and managerial skills as well as the sector outcomes both in terms of
physical achievements (Table 2), as well as financial indicators listed in Table 3, and
summarized below:

      Debt service ratio decreased from 5.8 to 3.0 (though this was still greater than the
       target of less than1.5), and stands at 2.30 in 2014.
      As mentioned in the context of overall efficiency, personnel costs as a share of total
       operating costs were reduced from 32.0 percent in 1994 to 22.0 percent in 2008, and
       further to 19.2 percent by 2014. Much of this was because of continued employee
       rationalization. In 1987 there were 6.38 staff per 1,000 water connections; at the start
       of the project this was 2.49 and by 2008 it was 1.79 (target was 1.96), and by 2014
       this had decreased marginally to 1.70.
      Average operating costs have increased by 108 percent (from US$0.23/m3 to
       US$0.48/m3) and have continued to rise to US$0.81/m3 by 2014. Despite limited
       tariff increases, evenues increased because of better management of water sales and
       billing by 144 percent (from US$0.34/m3 in 1994 to US$0.83 in 2008) and further to
       1.03/m3 by 2014. As a result the working ratio (operational expense/operational
       revenues) improved from 1.51 in 1994 to 0.58 (target 0.6) in 2008, and has been
       maintained at that level till 2014.

        Operations at the end of the project were guided by a Master and a Financial Plan up
to the year 2030, a Strategic Plan for the period 1996-2020 that were prepared and approved
during implementation, as well as annual Operational Plans with specific goals, outcomes
and products.
                                                  16


Table 3. Water and Sanitation in the Lima Callao Region: Key Financial Performance
Indicators, 2008-2014
                                         End of Project
 Indicator                               Target Actual 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 1.Water & Sewerage Average                -      0.70  0.81 0.88 0.96 1.08 1.03 0.96
 Tariff (US$ / m3)
 2. Average Operating Revenues               -         0.83   0.89    0.94    1.03    1.16    1.10       1.03
 (US$ / m3)
 3. Average operating costs (US$ /           -         0.48   0.50    0.59    0.68    0.83    0.85       0.81
 m3)
 4. Debt Service Coverage Ratio            1.50        3.00   2.50    2.50    2.30    1.80    2.57       2.30
 5. Working Ratio (%)                       60          44    42.2    51.2    50.6    49.2    58.9       58.3

 6. Internal cash generation /               -         44     32.0    47.7    29.1    44.6    76.5       53.7
 investments (%)
 7. Number of employees / 1000             1.96        1.77   1.67    1.65    1.70    1.64    1.69       1.70
 connections
 8. Personnel costs as Share of              -         22.0   21.7    22.1    20.4    18.4    20.0       19.2
 Operating Cost (%)
 1/.
   Including the fixed charge, to December of the year it indicated.
 * As reported by the end of implementation of the World Bank project and results, September 28, 2009;
Source: SEDAPAL


Efficiency
        Ex-post cost-benefit analysis was applied to the first three project components, using
the same methodology as at appraisal. The internal economic rate of return (ERR) and net
present value (NPV) were calculated and compared with the counter-factual ("no project")
scenario with prices in 1994 constant dollars to make them comparable with the cost-benefit
analysis done at appraisal. The actual NPV and ERR were US$439 million and 54 percent,
respectively, compared to the ex-ante figures of US$361 million and 23 percent. There were
some shortcomings in efficiency due to delays in implementation and cost overruns as a new
and innovative approach was adopted by the client at the urging of the World Bank.

        Despite the large time overrun, the ex-post ERR was higher than at appraisal due to
exceeding the targets for physical loss reduction, and the revised number of beneficiaries,
especially in the low-income peri-urban areas where they had been paying exorbitant rates
for informal sources of water. The rehabilitation of the network led to a 7 percent reduction
in physical water losses over the period 1994-2008, which is equivalent to 2.5 m3/s of
increase in water supply. This figure was higher than expected at the time of appraisal, when
a 2 percent reduction in physical losses and a 1.3 m3/s increase in water supply were
predicted. At the time of appraisal, approximately 800,000 people were living in low-income
peri-urban areas without direct water and sanitation services. They had to rely on water
supplied by tanker trucks or standpipes connected to SEDAPAL's system, and had to pay up
to 20 times per unit of water compared to households connected to the piped water system.
At the same time, many of those households living in low-income areas with service access
were receiving highly deficient services, with very few hours of service per day. With
                                            17


additional financing it was possible to exceed the targets expected at appraisal, despite the
collapse of FONAVI. The service expansion targets were fully achieved, reaching 102
percent of the intended water supply beneficiaries and 136 percent of sewerage beneficiaries.

        Efficiency was impacted by several factors that were reasonably under the
government’s control. As discussed in greater detail in the section on “borrower
performance”, long delays were experienced in resolving conflicting legal provisions
between entities, obtaining parallel financing, early procurement efforts, and the settling
period for SUNASS, the regulatory agency. While these issues were ultimately addressed,
they collectively added several years to the project implementation period.

       Taking all the above factors into consideration, Efficiency is rated modest.

Project Ratings
OUTCOME

        The overall development outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. Relevance of the
development objective is rated substantial. The project addressed critical challenges in
providing adequate and sustainable water and sanitation services to the Lima-Callao
metropolitan area, with a growing population of over 10 million, nearly 35 percent of Peru’s
population. The intention of privatizing SEDAPAL, the water utility, was somewhat
diminished by the presence of a ‘back-up’ plan in case the privatization did not go through.
Relevance of the development design is rated substantial. The project's components were
complementary and well-balanced for achieving the project development objective, by
covering water conservation, system rehabilitation and expansion, institutional strengthening,
and demand side management. The project design provided for capacity building and
performance-linked financial incentives for management and staff to keep the focus on
achieving targets, in the event that the proposed privatization was not realized. The efficacy
of the project is rated substantial, being underpinned by significant physical and institutional
achievements (while noting that the privatization and condominial activities did not succeed).
Efficiency is rated modest considering the implementation delays feeding into the eight and
a half-year delay (beyond the planned six and a half-year project), due to multiple factors that
were reasonably under government or World Bank control, even though the ex-post
economic rate of return was favorable.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

         Most of the improvements achieved during the project in terms of operational and
financial performance have been maintained in the years following project completion. These
include improvements in the physical infrastructure base, efficiency of resource use,
provision of basic services to previously unserved and underserved households, and
facilitation of a transformational change in SEDAPAL's management. Enhanced technical
proficiency, managerial professionalism, and a more stable financial foundation is expected
to allow SEDAPAL to continue expanding services to unserved areas while improving
services to those areas already served.
                                              18


        However, the larger picture shows that the progress in physical and service coverage
parameters conceal disparities in service quality between the central and peri-urban sections
of Lima. There are an estimated 1.2 million poor residents that still lack access to safe
drinking water and sanitation in peri-urban areas within the outskirts of Lima and Callao,
where it is technically and economically unviable to expand the utility's conventional
networks and therefore require non-network or non-conventional service delivery solutions.
Around half a million people mainly living in the deprived peri-urban sections of Lima, still
have to purchase water from private vendors at prices 12 times higher than those receiving
water through public service providers.

       The unabated migration from rural areas into the Lima-Callao region makes the
universal provision of services a constantly moving target. Efforts to reduce this gap are
undermined by insufficient coordination between the urban planning function and the water
and sanitation administration as indicated by respondents that were interviewed by the
mission. To cope with the growing population and water needs, increased water sources will
need to be harnessed to expand services to new unserved communities, apart from reducing
non-revenue water.

       Tariff levels set by SUNASS, the regulatory agency are below cost recovery levels.
SEDAPAL receives 50 percent of its financing needs from the government budget, and 20
percent from external agencies. SEDAPAL has a risk classification of AA, and has a
medium- /long-term goal of entering public listing.

        The World Bank and other multilateral and bilateral agencies are assisting SEDAPAL
in address some important challenges. The World Bank supports the Optimization of Lima
Water and Sewerage Systems Project ("Lima Norte 1"), and the “Lima Norte 2" Investment
Program led by SEDAPAL (co-financed by the German Development Bank (KfW), the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), SEDAPAL and the IBRD) that addresses
reduction of non-revenue water in northern Lima. The Lima Norte 1 Project also supports the
contracting of key strategic consultancy services to fully integrate SEDAPAL's networks
under the SCADA and GIS system, a study on demand and consumption. The World Bank is
providing RAS for assessment of WSS private operators and development of a framework of
technical, social and institutional and complementary alternatives for water supply and
sanitation service delivery.

       Considering the scale and variety of challenges for water and sanitation in the Lima-
Callao region, the overall progress since the completion of this project, and the efforts
underway to address the issues, on balance, risk to development outcome is rated moderate.

Bank Performance
         Quality-at-Entry (QAE): The project's design and elements of the results
framework were directly linked to achieving the project development objective. The project
was well-conceived within a much broader investment package, which facilitated the
complementary co-financing. The Project Management Unit was appropriately situated
within SEDAPAL with high visibility and access to the Senior Management Committee and
Board of Directors, and a high degree of autonomy over investment, contracting and
                                            19


procurement decisions. Private sector involvement in public utilities was “hedged” by an
alternative approach contained in the legal documents of the project. In retrospect, the
original time scale was optimistic – the project spanned a total of about fifteen years
(including additional financing) against the planned implementation period of seven years.
As discussed in the section on ‘implementation’, approval of additional financing took
almost two years but there were also several other delays which the World Bank could have
prevented at least partially, for example, through better judging government commitment for
building technical capacity, including in procurement. Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

        Quality of supervision: The World Bank displayed diligence in overseeing
implementation of the project and initiating transformational changes in SEDAPAL's
management culture. Implementation was closely supervised by both regular missions and
through the active involvement of Country Office staff. The World Bank’s proactive
interventions were important in securing a highly professional degree of operational and
financial management expertise in SEDAPAL itself and through outsourcing. The decision to
provide additional financing to compensate for the shortfall in connections to low-income
peri-urban neighborhoods (including supporting the condominial network pilot), as well as
improving SEDAPAL’s management in the latter years of implementation, was carried out
with the intention of reducing the risk to development outcome and enhancing the entity's
capacity to expand delivery of water & sanitation services.

        In respect of procurement, selection processes for works did not allow for
modifications in the minimum contractual amounts for bidders. This is reported to have
discouraged many small businesses from participating in the bidding. However, this situation
arose from the lack of flexibility in World Bank procurement norms at that time. Delays in
the issuing of the World Bank's No Objection to bidding documents are seen to have
contributed to implementation delays. Quality of Supervision is rated satisfactory.

Overall World Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
        Government: The government decided not to privatize SEDAPAL as originally
intended. The reasons for this were ultimately political given that a private investor would
have to put up large upfront investments to improve the existing infrastructure, and would
need much higher tariffs to recoup those investments, which would not be politically
feasible. However, the government followed the World Bank’s recommendation to sign a
back-up management contract agreement between SEDAPAL and the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. Under this arrangement, the government demonstrated strong commitment to
the project throughout implementation by approving critically important sector reform
measures, tariff structures and legal frameworks, and supporting SEDAPAL to implement
the required reforms.

       There were a number of institutional and bureaucratic conflicts, which resulted in
course changes and long delays in implementation as detailed in the section on
“Implementation”. Given the fiscal and financial situation of the country in the late-1990s
and beyond, the Ministry of Economy set ceilings on investment levels, which resulted in
                                             20


restrictions on loan disbursements from the third quarter of 1999 through the end of 2002.
Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

        Implementing Agency: During the project, the implementing agency SEDAPAL
radically changed its corporate management approach and work culture including the
adoption of a new performance-based compensation and incentive system based on reaching
results targets. SEDAPAL delegated project implementation to a specialized Project
Administration Unit, created in March 1995. Earlier, during project preparation, a project
director was appointed to lead the project preparation, reporting directly to the general
manager of SEDAPAL. Overall, the borrower's staff spent a significant amount of time with
the World Bank's team in Lima to complete the analysis and discuss project scope,
objectives, components and implementation arrangements, demonstrating its commitment
and ownership. The Project Administration Unit demonstrated its capacity for implementing
the project and the large US$600 million investment program within which it was embedded,
and to simultaneously support an ambitious and wide ranging program of managerial reforms
designed to improve SEDAPAL's overall performance. Two aspects contributed favorably to
project implementation. First, a Managerial Investment Committee was created to avoid
isolation of the Project Administration Unit by providing a high level interface with the rest
of SEDAPAL. This committee, which was headed by the General Manager of SEDAPAL,
comprised a full quorum of the company's managers, met frequently throughout project
implementation and was responsible for approving all of the key procurement and
implementation decisions prior to the World Bank's no objection. It played a critical role in
ensuring coordination between the Project Administration Unit and other areas of the
company. Second, the continuity of staff both on the Project Administration Unit and on the
Managerial Investment Committee also contributed considerably to the ease of
implementation.

        There were some shortcomings, including dissolving the Project Administration Unit
in charge of implementing condominial projects in low-income peri-urban areas at the end of
the project, which has resulted in a loss of expertise. With the benefit of hindsight, the
condominial implementation unit could have been better anchored within SEDAPAL in order
to allow the better rooting of the condominial project principles within the company’s main
line of business. Overall, implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

       Overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

3. National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

     According to the project’s Loan Agreement as well as the Project Appraisal
Document, the project development objective was to “increase the sustainable use of water
                                              21


supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas and small towns while emphasizing
improvement in hygiene practices and training in operation and maintenance.”7

        There is some difference in the wording of the project development objective between
the Loan Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document. In the Loan agreement, words
“new and rehabilitated” were not included and “in the territory of the Borrower” was added
for the Additional Financing in December 2010. However, this difference in wording does
not change the essence of the project. The objective stated in the loan agreement will form
the basis of the evaluation.

Components and Costs

          The project components and costs were as below:

         Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas (cost at appraisal, US$68.0 million;
          additional financing cost, US$48.3 million; at completion: US$102.0 million). This
          component included: (i) rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and sanitation
          systems for about 750,000 people in about 2,500 communities, and on-site sanitation
          services for about 300,000 people in rural areas; (ii) construction of water supply and
          sanitation systems and on-site sanitation provision for about 125,000 people in about
          600 communities; (iii) technical assistance on accounting, system repair and hygiene
          education to local water and Sanitation Service Administrative Boards (JASS) and
          technical assistance on long term administrative and technical support for
          municipalities. The additional financing was used to fund the significant cost
          overruns of this component.
         Water Supply and Sanitation in Small Towns (cost at appraisal, US$4.0 million;
          additional financing cost, US$0.0 million; at completion: US$6.6 million). This
          component covered: (i) technical assistance to help municipalities delegate water
          supply and sanitation services to private autonomous operators, and (ii) rehabilitation,
          improvement and expansion of water supply and sanitation systems in about 12
          municipalities with delegations agreements to operate them.
         Capacity Building (cost at appraisal, US$2.0 million; additional financing cost,
          US$0.0 million; at completion: US$1.1 million). Included were: (i) technical
          assistance and training to strengthen the Rural Division of the General Sanitation
          Directorate (DGSR), the rural water supply and sanitation sector leader, including the
          preparation of policy and sector studies; and (ii) training to municipalities, regional
          operators, contractors and skilled labor for: (a) orientation and strengthening of
          regional operators; (b) accreditation of local professionals and systems operators; (c)
          health and hygiene education campaigns; (d) analysis of existing sewerage systems in
          rural areas; (e) micro-credit schemes for rural households to make in-house sanitation
          investments; (f) designing rural water supply and sanitation information systems; (g)
          evaluation of watershed protection based upon international and national best
          practices; (h) review of design standards for rural water supply and sanitation
          services; and (i) determination of household water consumption patterns.

7
    1.2
                                              22


      Project Management (cost at appraisal:, US$2.5 million; additional financing cost,
       US$ 2.6 million; at completion: US$11.3 million). This component covered: (i)
       operation of the project management unit including external audits, and M&E
       systems; (ii) technical assistance and logistical support to the regional offices of
       FONCODES (Fondo Nacional de Cooperación para el Desarrollo or National
       Cooperation Fund for Social Development), which reports to the Ministry of Women
       and Social Development (MIMDES).

       The components were not revised during project implementation.

PROJECT FINANCING AND DURATION

        The actual project cost was US$121.5 million. This was somewhat lower than the
estimated project cost of US$130.9 million, which was the sum of the originally appraised
project cost of US$80 million plus additional requirements of US$50.9 to cover cost overruns
and increase in the value of the Peruvian sole. The original World Bank Loan of US$50
million was fully disbursed. Additional finance of US$30 million was approved in 2010, but
US$5.1 million of this amount was cancelled at completion. Of CIDA’s co-financing amount
of US$5 million, only US$0.53 million (11 percent) was disbursed. The ICR does not explain
the reason for this shortfall, and the mission team did not get any response on this matter
from CIDA. Actual borrower counterpart funding of US$38.1 million exceeded the total
US$33.5 million committed (US$12.6 million at appraisal plus US$20.9 million at the time
of additional financing). The project was approved in March 19, 2002 and came into effect in
January 2003. The Credit closing date was extended twice for a total of 38 months – for 25
months in 2007 – and closed in June 2010.

RELEVANCE

Objectives

        While the need for improving rural water and sanitation in Peru was clear, there was
no clear policy and institutional context at the time of appraisal to benchmark the country’s
priorities in this regard. However, the project development objectives were consistent with
the country’s commitment to the Millennium Development Goals, and remain relevant to
Goal 6 of the recently adopted Sustainable Development Goals – “to ensure availability of
sustainable management of water and sanitation for all”. The project reflects the priorities of
the current Medium Term Plan (2013-2016) of Peru's Ministry of Housing, Construction and
Sanitation for improving the health of rural populations through the provision of better water
supply and sanitation services. The project objectives were consistent with two of the three
pillars of the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (FY2007-11), which emphasized
focus on improving the basic living conditions of the poor, including improved water and
sanitation, and are in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (FY2012-2016) with its
strategic results area of improving supply of water and sanitation services under the broader
objective connecting the poor to services and markets.

       Relevance of project objectives is rated substantial.
                                             23


DESIGN

        The project design was clear with the components linked logically to the project's
objective of increasing the availability and use of water and sanitation services in rural areas
and small towns. The project appropriately addressed weak capacity in the water and
sanitation sector at different levels, particularly the communities and municipalities. It
included features based on experience in countries at similar levels of development and
sector characteristics: (i) a shift from the prevalent supply-driven to a community-driven
demand-responsive approach; (ii) introduction of co-financing by the municipalities and
communities; (iii) the provision for Regional Operators to be contracted to provide support
for community mobilization and organization, engineering design and education activities in
project communities; and (iv) piloting of alternative models of delegated management in
small town water supply and sanitation, which included local private sector participation
("Specialized Operator").

         The project targeted the rural poor who represented 60 percent of the rural population
through the FONCODES poverty map of Peru. The poverty map classified Peru’s 1,821
districts by poverty level (extremely poor, very poor, poor, marginally acceptable and
acceptable) using indicators such as percent of households without access to potable water
and adequate sanitation, percent of households without access to health clinics, and level of
inaccessibility by road. Even though the implementation agency changed for the rural WSS
component from FONCODES to the project management unit or UGP-PRONASAR in 2006,
the project was implemented in some of the poorest departments in the country: Apurímac,
Arequipa, Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Huánuco, Junín, Lima, Pasco, Piura, Amazonas,
Ancash, Cajamarca, Cusco, Puno, Lambayeque, San Martin and Ica.

         The original objectives remained in force throughout implementation but the targets
were changed significantly. In addition, key performance indicators were modified during
project restructuring in 2010 to reflect the achievable goals within the remaining
implementation time and budget, as outlined in the table below.

       Relevance of project design is rated substantial.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

            M&E Design: The project reports on 2 outcome and 13 intermediate outcome
indicators which cover connectivity, and adequacy, reliability, and quality of services; as
well as institutional and financial matters such as JASS inspections, billing, and plans and
data collection systems. The indicators in the appraisal document and the completion report
cover the same ground but are better articulated in the latter. A major shortcoming is the lack
of any baseline values. The agency responsible for gathering data was not clearly specified
though it was implied that FONCODES (Fondo Nacional de Cooperación para el Desarrollo
or National Cooperation Fund for Social Development) which reports to the Ministry of
Women and Social Development (MIMDES) – and which was in charge of the operation in
the initial years – would be involved.
                                               24


          M&E Implementation: M&E implementation barely got started and became even
weaker over time. The difficulties of accessing the remote locations of the several
interventions made it even worse.

         M&E Utilization: Little use appears to have been made of M&E. The World Bank
itself could obtain little information on the status of the delivery of the sub-projects or the
project outcomes.

       M&E Quality Rating is rated negligible.

Implementation
        At appraisal, the project aimed to support the implementation of a demand-responsive
and sustainable basic water and/or sanitation services project for approximately 850,000
people in 2,950 rural communities through the construction and rehabilitation of water
points, piped systems and sanitation facilities as well as training, operation and management
of water and sanitation facilities and extensive hygiene education. Other beneficiaries
included 400 municipal governments, which were expected to provide technical assistance to
the communities to manage their system better. The Vice Ministry of Sanitation (VMS) was
expected to oversee sector, through its General Directorate of Sanitation (Dirección General
de Saneamiento Rural – DGSR).

        The target for the number of direct beneficiaries with access to improved water
sources was reduced from 685,000 in 2006 to 256,400 and beneficiaries with access to
sanitation services in rural areas was revised from 616,500 to 242,700 within the same
period. The drastic decrease in the number of beneficiaries is a result of cost overruns for
which the reasons are explained immediately below.

         The project was restructured four times during calendar years 2006, 2008, 2010 and
2013 (see Table 4). The first restructuring transferred responsibility for implementation from
FONCODES (Fondo Nacional de Cooperación para el Desarrollo or National Cooperation
Fund for Social Development) which reports to the Ministry of Women and Social
Development (MIMDES) to the project management unit (PMU) or UGP-PRONASAR,
reallocated funds between components and made changes in some project indicators and
targets. The second restructuring extended the original project’s closing date to December 31,
2010 and address delays in implementation of the sub-projects. The third restructuring
provided additional financing of US$ 30 million to address cost overruns from: (i)
underestimation of original costs at appraisal which were based on non-representative
experiences of NGOs operating on a small scale; and also to take account of the higher (and
initially underestimated) costs for reaching remote and difficult to access areas such as in the
Amazon region; (ii) changes in implementation approach following the transfer of
responsibility from FONCODES to the dedicated Project Management Unit as well as the
expansion of the technology options for sanitation from dry pit latrines to pour flush latrines
and ecological toilets; and (iii) inflation and the impact of the increase in the value of the
Peruvian Sol given the implementation delays. The first two factors – underestimation of
costs and changes in technology options – accounted for over 80 percent of the increase in
costs. The fourth and last restructuring advanced the closing date by six months, as the
                                                    25


project design was no longer aligned to the government’s policies and the government’s
PNSR program, which replaced PRONASAR. Feedback from sector staff adds that the
project faced administrative obstacles during the period 2001-2006, when Government
policies did not enable the set-up of a dedicated/separate project Management Unit (PMU).

Table 4. Project Restructurings*
                          Amount
  Restructuring        Disbursed at
                                                  Reason for Restructuring & Key Changes Made
     Date(s)          Restructuring in
                          US$ M
                                           Transfer implementation responsibility from FONCODES to
    05/05/2006               7.38          the project management unit UGP-PRONASAR and revise
                                           targets in results framework.
    11/20/2008               21.5          Extend original project’s closing date to December 31, 2010
                                           Support implementation of additional financing for US$ 30
    12/13/2010              35.36          million to address shortage of funds; revise targets in the
                                           results framework.
                                           Close the project as the project design no longer aligned to
                                           Government of Peru's policies in the rural water sector; Project
    06/11/2013              74.36
                                           closed to allow all rural water and sanitation interventions in
                                           Peru to be aligned with the National Rural Sanitation Program.
* All the restructuring were Level which do not require Board approval.
Source: Implementation Completion Report

        The original implementing agency, FONCODES, was expected to build on its
expertise in efficiently transferring funds and executing small works in rural areas, and
additionally work on the social mobilization and support aspects of the project. However,
FONCODES had to contend with delays during the first three years of project
implementation, and also faced difficulties in transferring resources from the Ministry of
Housing, Construction and Sanitation.

        Weak sector policy and institutions were identified as constraints at project appraisal,
and continued to weigh on the project during implementation. Towards the end of the project,
the government introduced competing government strategies and programs, principally the
PNSR (Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Rural or National Rural Sanitation Program),
that provided 100 percent financing for infrastructure as opposed to PRONASAR’s main
principle of co-financing by both the municipality and community (through unskilled labor).
After the first project restructuring in 2006, the PRONASAR had around 500 sub-projects in
contract under the demand-responsive approach strategy. SEDAPAL clarified that these
projects are still being served through the PNSR. Many mayors decided to switch to the
options of 100 percent financing. SEDAPAL explains that the PNSR identified the poorest
localities with populations between 200 and 2,000 rural inhabitants and excluded localities
covered by PRONASAR. Therefore, Mayors that withdrew from PRONASAR projects may
have done so due a lack of financial resources.

      By early 2006, after almost two years of unsatisfactory performance, the project
handed over to the project management unit (PMU) or UGP-PRONASAR, which had been
                                               26


implementing the small town’s component since the beginning. Following this,
disbursements improved, but the time lag began to increase between finalization of technical
designs and the start of works, reaching an average duration of 734 days or 2 years as
estimated by one source.8 The delay was attributed partly to the restructuring process, which
emphasized the hiring of Technical Social Operators and Supervisor Operators, which
required a ‘no objection’ from the World Bank, a process that added to the delay. This was
compounded by excessive administrative and licensing regimes that led to significant delays
in the implementation of sub-projects. Overall, it took around 1,624 days or a little over four
years for a sub-project to be completed and transferred and closed, according to official
regulations. This was almost three times the amount of time originally planned. This
experience was common to all other development agencies.

        The NGO sector was expected to contribute to implementing the project’s technical
and social components at the regional level, but was unable to play a significant role due to
lack of capacity, and difficulty in adjusting to the rigid clauses of the contracts and the
demand for a large number of sub-projects to be implemented in each department. Also, there
were not enough qualified and experienced Technical Social Operators and Supervisor
Operators to handle the large scale of PRONASAR activities. Feedback from sector staff
suggests that private sector implementation capacity was mainly limited for two specific
reasons: (i) the creation of the National Public Investment System- SNIP, which reduced the
capacity of all the consulting companies because it was a new pre-investment process and
there were not enough professionals that met the requirements for all the projects that were
under preparation; and (ii) given the overall availability of government resources, there was
an unusual high demand for water infrastructure projects (Water for All Program), which put
additional pressures on the limited supply of qualified consultants.

        During 2001-2004, the favored technical solution or sanitation was the VIP latrine,
but this was not found acceptable by rural population which wanted the type of sanitation
available to city dwellers. During 2005-12, a hydraulic variety of sanitation base unit was
used, made of local material and without any sink outside. From 2012 onwards, the Baños
Dignos (stand-alone bathrooms with toilet, washbasin and shower), which is more expensive,
is being deployed under the government’s PNSR program. This solution was not favored by
the World Bank which cited the higher needs for water as one constraint for its use. This
concept appears to be changing now – authorities understand that the practical solution is
somewhere between latrines and Baños Dignos.

        From the interviews during the mission it is noted that the National Sanitation Plan at
the time of project approval included an intervention strategy for rural projects similar to that
of PRONASAR’s. This policy included: (i) the participation of the community in all the
project phases; (ii) co-financing as a key aspect to the community ownership of the service;
and (iii) selection of locations through a Demand Response Approach process. However, all
of these strategies were ignored during the period 2006-2011, when the indiscriminate



8
 Unpublished report by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, quoted by the Project
Implementation and Results Report.
                                            27


transfer of funds without any requirements was intensified, with the only condition of having
a project profile, without considering its quality or relevance.

        Bank and government staff explained that during project implementation there were
up to four parallel programs in the Sector (PNSR, PROCOES, and Amazonia Rural)
negatively impacted PRONASAR’s effectiveness. Each one of these programs had different
intervention strategies and competed with PRONASAR, since they did not demand any
requirements to access their funds (whereas PRONASAR required proof of demand and local
commitment as part of its demand driven approach). As a result, several projects that were
already on pre-investment phase were lost as the local authorities chose to tap at other doors
which did not have such requirements.

SAFEGUARDS AND FIDUCIARY

        Environment and Social Safeguards. The project was placed in Category B under the
World Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies. The provisions for
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Physical cultural resources OP/BP 4.11 were
triggered. An environmental impact assessment was prepared and appropriately disclosed
during project preparation. While most of the project beneficiaries were indigenous people,
and had been mainstreamed in the project design, the Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10 was
also triggered after the 2006 restructuring, and a social assessment focused upon indigenous
people was carried out. An updated "Environmental and Social Management Framework"
(ESMF) was prepared and disclosed following the additional financing. New environmental
guidelines for consulting firms were updated in 2009 and publicly disclosed in September
2010. This was "incorporated" into the project's revised operational manual.

        It was expected that environmental impacts would not be significant, irreversible or
unprecedented. Negative environmental impacts were partially mitigated by proper screening
and design, and were expected to be mitigated further by close supervision of construction
and operation practices. Environmental clearance for each single subproject was obtained at
the prefeasibility stage from the Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation, according
to national public investment legislation and environmental sectoral regulations. The
responsibility for compliance during implementation was placed on the consulting firms that
had to demonstrate compliance the safeguard polices in order to be paid. No major
environmental issues are reported to have occurred in the implementation of the parent
project, given the small scale of the water supply and sanitation investments financed in rural
areas and small towns.

        Financial Management. No major problems were reported in respect of financial
management, although there were delays in financial reporting, due to high turnover by
government financial staff and the existing institutional arrangements at the Ministry. Audit
reports were also delayed owing to the existing processes of Peru's General Controller. There
were no reports of qualified audit findings.

        Procurement. Project procurement went well for the most part. Procurement reviews
carried out by an "independent” expert included several recommendations for improving
                                              28


procurement management that were adopted during project implementation. There are no
reports of misprocurement.

Achievement of the Objectives
       Efficacy is reviewed here by parsing the project objective into its principal and
supporting elements and assessing the achievements under each one:

      Principal objective: To increase the sustainable use of water supply and sanitation
       facilities in rural areas and small towns.
      Supporting objective (i): To improve hygiene practices.
      Supporting objective (ii): To improve training in operation and maintenance.

        As per standard practice for projects with revised objectives and/or key performance
targets, efficacy is formally reviewed here for two separate periods of the project: Period 1
prior to the May 5, 2006 restructuring when the original project performance targets were in
force and 10 percent of the loan was disbursed; and Period 2 after the restructuring when the
project's sharply truncated performance targets came into force and 90 percent of the Loan
was disbursed. Although very little was achieved in Period 1 its impact upon the overall
assessment of the project here is very small as it accounted for only 10 percent of the total
project disbursements.

         IEG’s mission to Peru conducted six focus group discussions – two each in three
locations in three different regions/ districts – to get a sense of how the physical and
institutional outcomes from the project have been sustained, and to understand the important
issues faced by the municipalities, JASS and beneficiaries in this regard. The focus group
locations were selected from among the set of treatment districts/villages used in the impact
evaluation carried out in 2012, with preference give to locations with higher number of
beneficiaries and project investments in water and sanitation facilities; ready availability of
technical record of investments; and relatively easy access. The locations were Curamori and
Las Lomas (Piura Region); Cangallo (Ayacucho Region), and Canta- Santa Rosa de Quives
(Lima Region). The mission met with members of the local water and sanitation management
boards (JASS) to learn about the financial, management and technical issues faced by them
in providing regular services, and visited the water supply facilities in the three locations to
observe their state of operation. Interviews were conducted with technicians from the district
municipalities responsible for providing technical assistance to the JASSs. The findings from
the focus groups and other discussions are presented under the relevant objectives in
following paras. A more detailed account of the focus groups discussions is in Appendix D.

Principal objective: To increase the sustainable use of water supply and sanitation facilities
in rural areas and small towns. Rated modest (assessed against original outcome target -
Negligible; against revised outcome target - Modest):

        Water Supply. The project helped an additional 211,323 people access improved
water supply services against an original appraisal target of 685,000 and a restructured target
of 256,400 (82 percent). The project constructed 78 new water supply systems and
rehabilitated 282 existing systems and provided 34,299 household water connections in 380
                                                  29


rural communities across the country. An impact evaluation9 that included 860 interviews of
households in 43 locations in eight departments in 2005 (baseline) and the 2014 (end-line)
found significant increases access to continuous water sources by completion: from 37
percent to 100 percent where new systems were built, and from 83 percent to 90 percent
where existing systems were rehabilitated, though this finding was not statistically
significant.

         Sanitation. The project helped an additional 180,607 people access improved
sanitation services against an original appraisal target of 616,500 and a restructuring target of
242,700 (74 percent). The project provided 27,818 hygienic sanitation facilities in 380 rural
communities across the country. The impact evaluation also found a significant difference in
the increased use of sanitation facilities over 2005-2014: 59 percent in project localities
against 16-36 percent in unassisted localities. The survey did not confirm that the sanitation
facilities actually used were indeed hygienic.

       Overall, access to improved water sources in the areas where PRONASAR
implemented their sub-projects was much higher, 78 percent in 2005, compared to the
national rural access figure, which was 33 percent.

         Increasing sustained use of water supply facilities. There was a marked increase in the
percentage of communities with systems that are functioning without serious problems from
2005 to 2014 in intervention areas, showing increased sustainability. The percentage of
localities with systems that are functioning without serious problems increased by 69 percent
between 2005 and 2014 in intervention areas compared to 27 percent in non-intervention
areas, showing increased sustainability of the WSS facilities as a result of PRONASAR. In
addition, systems provide continuous water services through household water connection for
at least 12 hours per day in 73 percent of the communities. Furthermore, the endline study
shows statistically significant results on the households’ use of improved water sources for
consumption and cooking. Where PRONASAR financed new systems, the increase was
much higher than where it financed rehabilitated systems: respectively 61 percent and 8
percent increase in intervention areas, compared to 27 percent and 6.6 percent in non-
intervention areas.

        Increasing sustained use of sanitation facilities. A smaller but also significant increase
of 11 percentage points can be observed in the impact of the PRONASAR in the increased
use of hygienic sanitation in its intervention areas compared to those that did not benefit from
the Project. There was a dramatic increase in the percentage of men, women, and children
over three years of age who used latrines in the intervention areas compared to non-
intervention areas. For both new and rehabilitated systems financed by the project, this
percentage increase was 59 percent between 2005 and 2014, a significant difference from the
non-intervention areas where the latrine usage rate only increased by 16 percent for new
systems and 36 percent for new systems in the same time period.

       The mission’s site visits in the areas where focus group discussion were held
confirmed that the project completed the multiuse washing installations as planned and the

9
    The consulting firm based in Peru, SASE Consultores, carried out the studies in both years.
                                               30


beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the drinking water facility works implemented,
except in the case of Ayacucho, where mention was made that one zone receives water on an
irregular and highly limited basis, due to a technical problem. Respondents from Curamori
and Trapiche showed greater satisfaction with drinking water services compared to
Pampacruz where there are frequent interruptions in the lower zones. The water supply is
generally of good quality, and is treated with chlorine. The majority of the sanitation
installations are currently in operation and use. The population frequently performed the
cleaning and disinfection of their bathrooms or latrines. In Trapiche, several beneficiaries had
upgraded their shower, toilet and sink facilities.

        In respect of payment for services, there is a high delinquency rate in the project areas
of Trapiche and Pampacruz, even though the users themselves set the rates, which are quite
low at Cangallo at 1 sole, and Trapiche, 5 soles (3 soles water and 2 soles sewerage), per
month. In Curamori, the project has installed a micro-metering system per cubic meter, and
the payments currently allow for basic operation and maintenance. However, delinquency
appears to be on the rise due to the relatively higher rates (20-25 soles per month (US$ 6.35 –
7.94), on average).

Supporting objective (i): To improve hygiene practices. Rated negligible (assessed against
original outcome target - Negligible; against revised outcome target - Negligible)

        The project did not have a significant impact on household health and hygiene
practices. The evolution of the following indicators over the 2005 - 2014 period showed no
significant differences between communities assisted by the project and similar (control)
communities that received no assistance: (i) children under five with diarrhea in the past 15
days; and (ii) percentage of mothers with adequate hand washing practices. Improvements
were recorded for both indicators, but they could not be attributed to the project as they were
as much in evidence in communities not assisted by the project as in the project communities
themselves.

         The lack of impact on behavior change can possibly be attributed to the lack of
intensity and frequency of the behavior change intervention. There is a need to further link
the water and sanitation sector to the education and health sectors to maximize the
effectiveness of interventions. The endline data shows that there is already an increase in
collaboration between the water and sanitation and education sectors: there was a 42.1
percent increase (from 10.53 percent in 20015 to 52.63 percent in 2014 in the percentage of
district municipalities who collaborated with the Ministry of Education in terms of cash,
manual labor or other activities related to water and sanitation, in the past year.

         The focus group discussions indicated only isolated cases of gastrointestinal diseases,
and most participants including men and women report adequate hygiene and hand washing
practices. While this could be partly attributed to the project's efforts, there is greater
availability and use of primary health care centers apart from others, for diarrheic diseases,
both in for children under the age of five and in senior citizens and adults, although there is
still a culture of self-medication. Women respondents exhibited greater awareness and
responsibility for hygienic habits and sanitary conditions for the latrines and bathrooms
installed by the project. Almost all women respondents reported regular handwashing
                                             31


relation to cooking and sanitary activities, and appear to insist on similar behavior from their
families including children. In addition to the extension activities sponsored by the project,
the respondents gained from information and activities in schools provided by the Ministry of
Health.

Supporting objective (ii): to improve training in operation and maintenance. Rated
negligible (assessed against original outcome target - Negligible; against revised outcome
target - Negligible)

         A pilot assessment of ten systems visited by the project management unit found that
none of them generated sufficient revenues to fully cover operational and maintenance costs.
Seven of the ten systems provided service for more than 16 hours per day by completion--
although comparable baseline or target values for this indicator are not available. Only one of
the ten used metering to measure individual customers' consumption.

Strengthening local communities’ capacity to manage services

        At the community level, the responsibility for water and sanitation services rests with
the Community Water and Sanitation Services Association (JASS). A JASS is composed of
volunteers who do not receive any compensation for their work. It is legally constituted as
the Social Management Committee and is registered at the municipality. Members of a JASS
are expected to be rotated every two years. The Municipality is one of the few institutions
that provide support, although in a very limited capacity, mainly in terms of training and
technical assistance for the JASSs.

        At project completion it was reported that the project helped strengthen local
communities to manage, operate and maintain their water and sanitation service. A 38
percentage point increase was noted in the percentage of JASS that were trained in
managing, operating, and maintaining their water and sanitation services; a 33 percentage
point increase in the percentage of JASS with a complete and fully-functioning equipment;
and a 46 percentage point increase in the percentage of JASS trained in the daily
chlorination. However, the percentage point increase (25 percent) of systems in which daily
chlorination is done was lower. There was also dramatic reduction of 67 percentage points in
the percentage of JASS that know the method of calculating family contributions to
operations & maintenance costs.

        However, feedback to the mission from government officials, independent
consultants, and respondents in focus group discussions suggests that in practice,
municipalities provide limited support to the JASSs beyond sporadic training or financial
assistance. There is a lack of monitoring and supervision of the JASS performance by the
municipalities and Ministry of Housing, Water and Sanitation. An official went so far as to
suggest that the exact number of JASS is not known to the administration, though it is
estimated to be around 90,000. The government’s PNSR program has yet to develop an
effective strategy to meet the need for ongoing financial and technical support for its projects
and sub-projects, as well as those implemented under PRONASAR. The government
clarifies that in the last quarter of 2014, a stimulus plan was prepared jointly by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion for local
                                               32


governments comprising not only capacity-building but also granting funds to subnational
governments for maintaining works within their jurisdiction.

        The focus groups discussions confirm that a JASS is composed of volunteers with no
remuneration, and typically with limited or no resources to build managerial and
administrative capacities. A lack of permanent water operational staff (operators) that
maintain water service infrastructure facilities, and a lack of resources to hire such persons is
a further handicap for JASS, as evident in the focus group’s interactions in Cangallo-
Ayacucho. There is a frequent turnover of members and abandonment of duties in the JASSs.
In the case of Trapiche, improvements were implemented in the sewerage system with the
help of the municipality, but this appears to be a rare case that was made possible by the
personal intervention and access of JASS members. In addition, it was noted that the
administrative knowledge and project files were not transferred to the new JASS members.
Financial and accounting files are not kept adequately. For instance, the JASS in Trapiche
was aware of tools developed for this purpose by the project, but they were not used.

Strengthening municipal--district and provincial--level capacity to plan and oversee water
and sanitation services to rural communities in a sustainable and cost effective way

        The key indicators related to capacity building of local governments were not
favorable as reported at project completion. The impact survey showed that the percentage
of municipalities that have incorporated and carry out their planning, supervision,
monitoring, and evaluation functions in water and sanitation services in rural communities
had decreased from 42 percent in 2005 to 32 in 2014. Another indicator that shows the effect
(or lack thereof) of the project on district municipalities is the percentage of municipalities
with at least one person who knows the management activities of the JASSs. The baseline
figure was 16 percent and this did not increase in the end-line, raising questions about the
long-term involvement of the local governments in the water and sanitation services in the
intervention areas. Feedback to the mission rom JASS members and from municipal staff
confirms these findings.

       One of the key instruments for decentralization under PRONASAR was the “mesa de
concertación” outlined in the PAD, a consultation “space” for the prioritization of
development projects in the districts. However, the endline data from the impact valuation
shows that the percentage of districts with a “mesa de concertación” or similar mechanism
decreased from 47 percent to 42 percent.

Supporting the National Sanitation Directorate and the Vice-Ministry of Sanitation in the
normative and policy role

       This objective was partially achieved and the intermediate results were partially
achieved. The strategy of a key policy document, the National Sanitation Plan (2006-2011),
developed during President Alan Garcia’s term were similar to the strategy and policy
proposed by PRONASAR towards the beginning of the last decade (2000). There was some
progress in sector development with the creation of the National Sanitation Directorate and
the Vice Ministry of Sanitation by the time the Project was approved in 2002 as well as the
development of a ten-year strategic plan (2002-2011) adopting policies that aligned greatly
                                            33


with PRONASAR, such as community participation, private sector participation, and
acceptance of an enhanced role of district municipalities for the provision of WSS.

        Improving sustainable management of WSS facilities in small towns through the
establishment of Specialized Operators and training on operation and maintenance. This
objective was not achieved and none of the five intermediate results targets were achieved.
Almost three years after the small towns component of the project closed, the UGP carried
out an assessment of the pilot project and found that none of the ten systems visited had
operational revenues greater than or equal to 110 percent of operational expenditure, seven
out of the ten systems provided continuous service for more than 16 hours a day and only one
city out of 10 continued using micro-metering in billing its customers.

Efficiency
       Rated negligible (assessed against original outcome target - Negligible; against
revised outcome target - Negligible)

        At appraisal, the project had planned to benefit 750,000 people for US$80 million. By
completion, actual spending had risen to US$121.5 million benefitting only 250,000 people.
The appraisal promise of a project cost of US$107 per beneficiary had risen nearly fivefold
to US$486 per beneficiary. Added to that, project implementation itself was far less efficient
than originally proposed; it took eleven years, nearly double the six years originally
scheduled for what would have been a much larger operation.

        At appraisal a sample of seven sub-projects yielded an estimated an average ERR of
71percent and the "average" and an average NPV of US$10,940. It was not clear if the sub-
projects were representative of the total set of sub-projects. Costs in this analysis included
capital investment and recurrent operations and maintenance, plus (unspecified) institutional
development and community development costs. The analysis counted direct user benefits to
include time and other savings from avoiding individual water treatment, as the need to boil
water, for example. The appraisal cost-benefit analysis also counted the willingness to pay
for increased water consumption and (unspecified) health benefits. The appraisal sample
would have served 5,751 beneficiaries, 0.9 percent of the (originally) intended total of
650,750, and presumably a similar proportion of cost. However the individual ERRs for the
projects varied as much as between 8.1 percent to an improbable 1,200 percent. Also, a
detailed cost-benefit analysis of 36 "potentially eligible" sub projects yielded an average
NPV per sub-project of US$161,894 and average ERR of 17 percent.

        At completion, a cost-benefit analysis was made based on results from nine
subprojects that were not necessarily representative (out of 366 sub-projects financed under
this operation) covering 13 communities selected from among those that had taken part in the
project's impact evaluation. The net present value (NPV) of each of the chosen subprojects,
at a discount rate of 14 percent, was negative and their average economic rate of return
(ERR) was 3 percent. These NPVs and ERRs clearly point to inefficient investments by this
project. While the cost of the sampled projects was not available, the number of
beneficiaries were about 2.2 percent of the total (5,566 out of 250,000).
                                              34


Project Ratings
OUTCOME

        As per standard practice for projects with revised objectives and/or key performance
targets, relevance of objectives is formally reviewed here for two separate periods of the
project: Period 1 prior to the May 5, 2006 restructuring when the original project
performance targets were in force and 10.0 percent of the Loan was disbursed; and Period 2
after the May 5, 2006 restructuring when the project's sharply truncated performance targets
came into force and 90.0 percent of the Loan was disbursed. Although very little was
achieved in Period 1. Its impact upon the overall assessment of the project here is very small
as it accounted for only 10 percent of the total project disbursements. The original objectives
remained in force throughout implementation but the targets were changed significantly.

        The overall development outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Relevance of the
development objective is rated substantial before and after restructuring (which was
essentially a significant reduction in project targets rather than a change in project intent).
Relevance of the project design is rated substantial before and after restructuring. In terms
of project achievements, the principal objective of increasing the sustainable use of water
supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas and small towns is rated negligible before
restructuring, The first supporting objective of improving hygiene practices is rated
negligible before and after restructuring as an impact evaluation did not see any significant
differences in such behavior vis-à-vis non-project control areas. The second supporting
objective of “improving training in operations and maintenance” is also rated negligible
before and after restructuring due to a general lack of any discernible cost recovery for
operations and maintenance, continuing lack of capacity to manage the facilities, and lack of
administrative and financial support to local governments and community organizations.
Efficiency is rated negligible before and after restructuring. The appraisal promise of a cost
of US$107 per beneficiary rose nearly five-fold to US$486 per beneficiary at project
completion.




RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

        The project development outcomes are subject to several risks. These relate to
community participation, and various factors impacting community-based management of
water and sanitation assets through JASS. Community participation has been uneven during
the projects, and it is likely to further decrease as the economy improves overall, increasing
the opportunity cost for beneficiaries to contribute free labor. The voluntary (rather than
contractual) and unpaid nature of JASS membership does not offer any basic incentive for it
to function in a cohesive a purposive manner. Lack of financial resources makes it difficult
for JASS to conduct operations and maintenance in any meaningful way, without being able
to pay for technically skilled persons, even if they were available. The low willingness to pay
                                             35


and delinquency in payments observed in many cases further undermines the financial status
of JASS. The municipalities do not play any significant role in supporting JASS finically or
through technical assistance.

        Overall, the process of decentralization has not been accompanied by appropriate
capacity-building, responsibilities and accountability down the line from regional
governments to district level entities to municipalities an further to JASS. Transfer of
responsibilities should be to the level that yields positive externalities, accompanied by a
certification of capacity. There appears to have been little systematic thought devoted to
realizing economics of scale, which may drive the level of decentralization in different
contexts. This model has been used for maintenance of rural roads in Peru.

        As the implementation of this project has made evident, Peru is short of the private
firms and NGOs needed to execute the project especially on the scale originally foreseen, but
also to carry out the ongoing operations and maintenance of water supply and sanitation
systems of the type delivered. Community participation worked to some extent during the
project's truncated implementation, but as mentioned, above, this may not continue as labor's
opportunity costs increase with rising incomes.

        The lack of impact on behavior change can possibly be attributed to the lack of
intensity and frequency of the behavior change intervention. There is a need to further link
the water and sanitation sector to the education and health sectors to maximize the
effectiveness of interventions.

        There has been less attention to sanitation overall, as the responsibility water supply
falls on the local government, but not necessarily for sanitation. At this point the
government’s focus seems to be on providing infrastructure, which is a strength of the
municipality, but the arrangements for operations & maintenance, as discussed above, are not
proportionately in place.

       Overall, Risk to Development Outcome is rated high.

World Bank Performance
        Quality at entry. The project preparation was carried out by a multi-disciplinary
World Bank team and took into account prior World Bank experience in the area in other
similar countries. However, there were several major shortcomings in ensuring quality at
entry, which had serious consequences project implementation.

       The estimates of unit costs were incomplete and inaccurate and turned out to be only
20-25 percent of the actual unit costs that were eventually incurred. The project paper for
additional financing points out that some portion of the cost increase was due to changes in
the implementation approach, but was also caused by inflation, and appreciation of the local
currency by 20 percent against the US dollar from appraisal to completion. The
underestimation of costs led setting beneficiary targets that proved to be over-ambitious.
                                                36


        The assessment at appraisal that "FONCONDES has shown the superiority of its
model in getting systems built at low cost in a relatively short period of time” turned out to
be exaggerated, when it became clear that it could not scale up its operations to match the
project’s needs. While this does not necessarily argue against the FONCODES model, there
was inadequate appraisal of the availability and capacity of private firms and NGOs in Peru
to implement the project's social and technical components. Prior NGO experiences in Peru
had been localized and on a much smaller scale than what the project planned to achieve. The
project design, which relied heavily upon private operators and NGOs to implement the new
systems did not sufficiently take this into account.

       There were other risks that were underestimated. The integration of physical
investments with training in operations & maintenance, hygiene education and long-term
follow-up proved to be more difficult than anticipated given the novelty of the approach to
the Peru context, and the scope and depth of intervention needed in thousands of
communities that the project hoped to benefit.

       Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.

        Quality of supervision. The World Bank conducted over 21 supervision missions
over the project duration of eleven years, averaging approximately two per year. Performance
ratings by supervision mission appear, at times, to have been unduly positive. Fully
Satisfactory ratings were awarded for implementation progress during the project's first two
years, 2002-2004, when only US$1.4 million of a US$50 million loan had been disbursed,
instead of ten times that amount that should have been disbursed by that time. Project
documentation during the subsequent 2004-2006 period was more realistic in noting "two
years of unsatisfactory performance". . Although the World Bank team restructured the
project to help move it forward, implementation did not pick up significantly beyond 2006.
The complexity of the project, its lack of flexibility and reluctance to change existing work
methods came in the way of resolving implementation problems. In retrospect, the World
Bank supervision team may have missed opportunities to restructure the project in a more
meaningful and effective way for the outcomes to be effectively achieved.

Quality of Supervision Rating is rated moderately unsatisfactory

Overall World Bank Performance Rating is rated unsatisfactory.10

Borrower Performance
        Government Performance. Government support for and ownership of the project were
uneven over the project duration. There were delays in budget allocations and project
resources transfers owing to the lack of coordination between different Government
ministries and agencies. Different sections of the government were not always aligned to the
conceptual framework of the project. Specifically, the government retracted on the demand-

10
  Following the harmonized IEG-OPCS guidelines, the lower of the Quality at Entry and supervision
ratings is given to the overall World Bank performance rating in line with the development outcome
rating.
                                            37


driven approach when it designed the PNSR program to provide water and sanitation
infrastructure on a 100 percent grant basis. No significant emphasis was placed on
strengthening municipalities and communities in their efforts to provide and operate water
and sanitation services. Project performance was also undermined by long delays in the
appointment of key project staff by the government. On the positive side, however, the
government paid in three times as much counterpart funding as was originally promised at
appraisal.

       Government Performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

         Implementing Agency. FONCONDES was not able to adjust to the demand-driven
and participatory approach adopted by the project, resulting in severe delays. Event after the
PRONASAR project management unit took over the responsibilities for implementation,
protracted processing of sub-projects mentioned in the previous section was made worse by
delayed licensing so that individual sub-projects took on average 4.5 years to complete
construction, three times the 1.5 years originally foreseen. A donor report found that, on
average, it took more than two years for sub-projects with detailed technical designs finalized
to start works. However, it is noted that the delay was partly due to the need to seek the no-
objection of the World Bank in every case. Overall three reasons can be ascribed to the
implementing agency’s weak performance: (i) unduly centralized project team with
insufficient local field presence; (ii) lack of coordination and participation of local level
stakeholders; and (iii) inadequate M&E to monitor progress and provide feedback for mid-
course corrections towards project objectives. The implementing agency was also
handicapped due to the shortage of private firms and NGOs for designing and implementing
sub-projects.

Implementing Agency Performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Overall Borrower Performance is rated unsatisfactory.

4. Lessons Learned
Lessons

A strong focus on project outcomes and adequate accountability mechanisms are key
factors to the achievement of significant improvements in service provision. The
project’s design focused on performance and outcomes, and provided for a management
contract between SEDAPAL and the line ministry with annual performance targets, with
arrangements for institutional capacity development, performance-linked financial
incentives, accompanied by effective monitoring.

Efforts to replicate successful experiences from other contexts must carefully take into
account the receptivity of the implementing institutions and beneficiaries. The pilot
effort to bring low-cost condominial networks to low-income peri-urban areas yielded
limited results and was eventually discontinued due to insufficient social acceptance, the
preference of beneficiaries for conventional networks, and the reluctance of SEDAPAL and
contractors to depart from conventional network norms and methods. In retrospect, the
                                                38


receptivity of both beneficiaries as well as SEDAPAL and the contractors was not adequately
gauged.

Resource conservation techniques can yield quick benefits to liberate water resources
for new clients. The project provides a successful example of the comprehensive and
synchronized application of demand and supply management techniques to liberate water
resources. These made it possible to simultaneously achieve improved coverage and
continuity of service in what had been, before the project, a heavily constrained resource that
was widely rationed. It also provides a powerful illustration of the potential magnitude of
customer response by sending economic signals through the pricing of water.

Project design needs to address gaps and weaknesses in sector institutions and
governance identified during project preparation, failing which the risk to achieving
project outcomes and timely implementation is much increased. In this project, the World
Bank made an adequate diagnosis of the sector institutions, but failed to make significant
provisions to deal with them, thus affecting project implementation.

The modalities of cost-sharing and community participation need to be adapted to the
local context and supplementary resources made available as needed. Many
municipalities did not have significant budgetary resources to participate in the project. In
addition, over time, rural communities became less inclined to contribute free labor or local
materials as other economic opportunities opened up. This affected contractor interest and
affected overall project progress. In such situations, alternative means should be sought to fill
the resource gap.

Community participation in planning and operations underpins sustainability, but
adequate training support, financial incentives, and contractual arrangements are
necessary for continued and effective participation. The community water and sanitation
services associations (JASS) are seen as key to the operations and maintenance of rural water
and sanitation facilities. In practice they have generally not been effective and there is a lot of
turnover, due to insufficient capacity and financial resources. It appears that well-organized
and trained people may assume the management, operation and maintenance of rural
facilities, but to ensure sustainability there needs to be provision for training, a contractual
arrangement of accountability, and compensation.

Behavioral change for improved water and sanitation-related hygiene requires ongoing
engagement with the community, and collaboration with health and education sectors.
The effort to change and sustain hygiene-related behavior needs to go much beyond sporadic
visits to communities by extension staff during the project. It is important to reinforce the
messages after the project; doing this requires a multi-sectoral approach that includes not
only the health and education sectors but also the private sector, to the extent possible.
Continuous training of frontline workers and delivery of such training through local
governments appears to be key to this effort.
                                                  39


5. References
Aligned Strategies. 2015. Consultancy for the Design and Implementation of Workshop Plan to Perform Focus
        Groups in Three Locations under the Intervention of the National Program of Rural Water And
        Sanitation–PRONASAR. Final Report Prepared for Independent Evaluation Group.
Aguilar-Barajas, Ismael, Jürgen Mahlknecht, Jonathan Kaledin, Marianne Kjellén, Abel Mejía-Betancourt eds.
        2015.Water and Cities in Latin America: Challenges for Sustainable Development. Earthscan studies
        in Water resources management.
Barnes, G. 2015. Key Financial Indicators for Water and Wastewater Systems: Operating Ratio. University of
        North Carolina, Environmental Finance Center. http://efc.web.unc.edu/2015/02/27/operating-ratio/
World Bank. 2002. Peru - National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. Implementation completion
       Report. Washington, DC: World Bank.
       https://hubs.worldbank.org/docs/imagebank/pages/docprofile.aspx?nodeid=1977225
World Bank. 2014. Peru - National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project - PRONASAR. Project Appraisal
       Document. Washington, DC : World Bank Group.
       https://hubs.worldbank.org/docs/imagebank/pages/docprofile.aspx?nodeid=19883226
World Bank. 1994. Peru - Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project. Staff Appraisal Report.
       Washington, DC: World Bank.
       https://hubs.worldbank.org/docs/imagebank/pages/docprofile.aspx?nodeid=697906
World Bank. 2009. Peru - Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project. Implementation Completion
       Report.Washington, DC: World Bank.
       https://hubs.worldbank.org/docs/imagebank/pages/docprofile.aspx?nodeid=11215026
                                              40


APPENDIX A. Basic Data Sheet
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (IBRD-38110)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                             Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
                                             estimate         current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           306.2                311.8                  102
Loan amount                                   150.0                170.0                    113
Cofinancing                                   156.2                141.8                    91
Cancellation


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
               FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98           FY99     FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY08
Appraisal
estimate        26.5   33.9   64.7   105.1   141.4    147.4 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0 150.0
(US$M)
Actual          0.0    4.0    8.1    20.7    85.7     113.2 131.5 140.8 149.5 150.0 149.7
(US$M)
Actual as        0     11.8   12.5   19.6    60.6      76.7      87.6   93.8     99.6      100    99.8
% of
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: January 2009


Project Dates
                                                     Original                           Actual
Initiating memorandum
Negotiations                                                                       09/23/1994
Board approval                                                                     11/22/1994
Signing                                                                            02/02/1995
Effectiveness                                       08/31/1995                     08/31/1995
Closing date                                        06/30/2001                     03/31/2009


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                        Staff Time and Cost
                                                     (World Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands
                                     No. of staff weeks       (including travel and consultant
                                                                            costs)
 Lending
                                            41                                  APPENDIX A

                                                      Staff Time and Cost
                                                   (World Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks       (including travel and consultant
                                                                          costs)
   FY92                                     16                           89.4
   FY93                                     28                          163.56
   FY94                                     69                          398.98
   FY95                                     16                           91.14
   FY03                                      3                           16.42
                          Total:          132                           759.50
 Supervision/ICR
   FY95                                     9                           50.36
   FY96                                     6                           31.95
   FY97                                    10                           59.85
   FY98                                     8                           48.16
   FY99                                    10                           59.59
   FY00                                    19                           46.32
   FY01                                    12                           56.96
   FY02                                    10                           61.67
   FY03                                    13                           83.79
   FY04                                    20                          119.78
   FY05                                    13                          101.79
   FY06                                    15                           73.83
   FY07                                     9                           77.03
   FY08                                    20                           94.81
   FY09
                          Total:          174                          965.89


Mission Data
                                            Staff Time and Cost
                                         (World Bank Budget Only)
  Stage of Project Cycle
                                                        USD Thousands
                         No. of staff weeks
                                             (including travel and consultant costs)
  Lending
     FY92                           16                       89.4
     FY93                           28                      163.56
     FY94                           69                      398.98
     FY95                           16                       91.14
     FY03                            3                       16.42
                  Total:          132                       759.50
APPENDIX A                                   42

                                           Staff Time and Cost
                                        (World Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle
                                                       USD Thousands
                        No. of staff weeks
                                            (including travel and consultant costs)
 Supervision/ICR
    FY95                            9                       50.36
    FY96                            6                       31.95
    FY97                           10                       59.85
    FY98                            8                       48.16
    FY99                           10                       59.59
    FY00                           19                       46.32
    FY01                           12                       56.96
    FY02                           10                       61.67
    FY03                           13                       83.79
    FY04                           20                      119.78
    FY05                           13                      101.79
    FY06                           15                       73.83
    FY07                            9                       77.03
    FY08                           20                       94.81
    FY09
                 Total:          174                       965.89


Other Project Data

Borrower/Executing Agency:
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                    Credit no.       Amount          Board date
                                                              (US$ million)
Optimization of Lima Water and Sewerage      IBRD-80250        64.9           04/07/2011

NATIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (IBRD-7142;
IBRD-7978)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                          Appraisal          Actual or         Actual as % of
                                          estimate        current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs
Loan amount                                 50.0
Cofinancing                                 30.0
Cancellation
                                              43                                   APPENDIX A


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
Appraisal
estimate        4.0    11.5   25.0   38.5   48.0   50.0    50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0    50.0   50.0
(US$M)
Actual           .5    1.3    3.1    7.8    10.8   18.7    25.0   31.5   37.9   48.1    74.3   74.8
(US$M)
Actual as %     12.5   11.3   12.4   20.2   22.5   37.4    50.0   63.0   75.8   96.2 148.6 149.6
of appraisal
Date of final disbursement: June 2011

Project Dates
                                               Original                      Actual
Board Approval                                                             08/29/2002
Signing                                                                    09/13/2002
Effectiveness                                                              03/12/2003
Closing date                                 12/31/2008                    06/30/2013


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                            Staff Time and Cost (World Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD (including travel and
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                             8.65                         37,430.91
  FY01                                             9.80                         71,324.28
  FY02                                             39.33                        297,165.41
  FY03                                             10.12                        45,939.69
  FY04                                             1.45                           262.08
 FY07                                                0                            11.26
 Total:                                            69.35                        452,122.37
 Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                             14.75                        71,201.82
  FY04                                             23.29                        86,338.58
  FY05                                             24.90                        104,397.78
  FY06                                             34.07                        135,201.52
  FY07                                             44.72                        162,689.99
  FY08                                             30.11                        109,836.44
  FY09                                             35.59                        170,287.76
  FY10                                             29.32                        117,795.47
  FY11                                             23.51                        88,516.78
  FY12                                             26.71                        135.931.39
APPENDIX A                                    44


 FY13                                          24.90                        99.032.14
 FY14                                           9.68                        38,367.55
 Total:                                        321.55                      1,084,633.69


Mission Data
          Names                              Title                  Unit
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Christophe Prevost           Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   LCSWS
Lizmara Kirchner             Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   LCSWS
Ana Lucía Jimenez Nieto      Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
Jean-Jacques Verdeaux        Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Sandra Arzubiaga             Communications Officer                LCREA
Blanca Lopez Alascio         Consultant                            LCSWS
Selene del Rocio La Vera     Procurement Specialist                LCSPT
Omar Guido Concepcion        Extended Term Consultant              LCSDU
Raul Tolmos                  Environmental Specialist              LCSEN
Pamela Sofia Duran Vinueza   Team Assistant                        LCSWS
                                                45


APPENDIX B. List of Persons Met
PPAR Mission to Peru – List of People Met

Mr. Jorge Guibo, Ministry of Economy and Finance
Mr. Víctor Manuel Sevilla Gildemeister, Director Ejecutivo, Ministry of Housing, Construction and
Sanitation

Mr. Fernando Momly Hada, Presidente Consejo Directivo, SUNASS
Mr. Alberto Rojas Morote, Gerente General, SUNASS

SEDAPAL
Mr. Ing. Humberto Chavarry Arancibia, Gerente de Proyectos y Obras, SEDAPAL
Ms. María Teresa Ciudad Eulogio, Gerente de Finanzas, SEDAPAL
Ing. Danilo Vergara, Ing. Juan Moreno, Ing. ArturoParra, Ing. Yuri Sánchez- Team Of EDE (SCADA
Systems - Plan– and Networks) and ( Information and Communication Technologies)ETIC
Ing. David Chong, Ing. Miguel Vega and Yuri Sánchez – Team of Business management and
micromeasurement (EGCM )
Ing. Liliana Gamarra, Ing. Yuri Sánchez – Team of Control and Reduction of Leakage (Sectorization
topic)
Ing. Ana Mendoza, Ing. Teobaldo Llanos, Ing. Plácido Aguirre Alata – Project Explanation
Mr. Adalberto Huamán, Ms. Maritza Guillén, Mr. Juan Calderón – Financial aspects of the project
and the company
Civil Society / Research Institution
Ms. Mariana Alegre Escorza, Coordinadora General, Lima Cómo Vamos
Mr. Juanjo Arrué, Coordinador de Proyectos Perú y Latinoamérica, Community Design Group
Mr. José Luis Escaffi, Gerente General, AC PUBLICA
Mr. V. Raúl Guerrero De los Ríos, Consultor Asociado, SASE Consultores
Mr. Javier Escobal, GRADE
JICA
Mr. Kengo AKAMINE, Representante Residente Asistente, Sectorista Senior
Other
Mr. Alfredo Mannucci del Rio, Gerente de Proyecto Adjunto, Nippon Koei LAC Co., Ltd
Mr. Jaime Salcedo Lobaton, Ingeniero Sanitario, Consultor
Mr. Victor Javier Acosta Sotomayor, Sociólogo
World Bank
Mr. Alberto Rodríguez, Country Director, World Bank
Mr. Christophe Prevost, Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist and Task Team Leader, World Bank
Mr. Miguel Vargas-Ramirez, Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist and Task Team Leader, World
Bank
Mr. Oliver Braedt, Program Leader, World Bank
Ms. Iris Marmanillo, Especialista Sénior en Agua y Saneamiento, World Bank
Mr. Gustavo Perochena, Economista Sénior, World Bank
Mr. Fernando Julio Laca Barrera, Extended Term Consultant, World Bank
                                            46


APPENDIX C. The ‘Condominial’ Approach
The effort to connect people in low-income peri-urban neighborhoods included the
implementation of the “condominial” approach – a low-cost sewerage network technology
used most successfully in Brazil to reduce significantly investment costs and service tariffs
by up to 40 percent through the joint connection by blocks rather than more traditional and
more expensive individual connections. (See Box 1). However this approach required
significant community cooperation, and responsibility for maintenance. Specific figures of
households connected through condominial networks were not made available to the mission,
and may not be available. However, it is clear that this number is very small compared to
conventional network connections. After making a strong and commendable effort, the
condominial approach was essentially discontinued.

Despite this, the condominial experiment warranted a deeper examination to draw lessons for
future efforts of this kind, and the mission met with retired engineers that were involved in
developing the condominial systems in Lima’s peri-urban areas as well as social promoters
that worked with the beneficiary communities. The mission also visited a peri-urban
community in District Ventanilla-Cono Norte which has a functioning condominial system.

The World Bank sponsored study tours to Brazil and Bolivia for Peruvian officials to learn
from their experience in this regard. The condomonial effort began as a small pilot operation
in peri-urban area in Lima in a sandy and rocky area. With the World Bank’s encouragement,
condominial system pilots were attempted for lot sizes of 700 to 1000 and the feasibility of
the technology under these conditions was proved.

The mission learnt from various respondents that the implementing agency staff and social
science promoters began the condominial effort by consulting with community leaders and
with families, especially with housewives, providing them with blueprints and features of the
condominial network. The leader were initially skeptical as to whether SEDAPAL would
carry out these plans. There was also suspicion from the presence of heavy land-working
machinery, especially since many families had migrated from mining areas and had negative
associations with such equipment. Because the condominial system involved digging under
the houses, the residents felt they were being singled out, and asked officials whether they
would do be allowed to do anything similar in richer neighborhoods. Also, the condominial
network uses a smaller diameter pipe and the residents felt they were being shortchanged
compared to middle-class and richer neighborhoods. However some breakthroughs were
made as in the Ventanilla settlement.

Condominial systems in this area were built during 2010-2011. Since many households did
not have a proper land title, clearance was obtained for installing the gear with an initial
possession title that would be later converted into a property title. After the network
connections were made, the beneficiaries initially installed artisanal products at US$5 for
toilet and US$3-4 for a sink, but gradually switched to better quality products.

The mission met with the local citizen’s representative for water and sanitation recognized by
the municipality, for an area covering covering 15-20 blocks. The representative explained
that the area was mainly sandy with a rocky under surface. Prior to the condominial
APPENDIX C                                            47


networks, water was transported by trucks About 745 homes in the representative’s area
were provide with condominial water and sanitation. All of these homes have functioning
water supply, lavatories, and bathrooms. Initially there was opposition to the condominial
system from local residents because nearby localities a conventional water and sanitation
system. There is now water supply for 20 hours a day, though homes situated at higher levels
get water for lesser durations. The water is metered and charged at 1.05 soles for
consumption below 20 cum, and 1.40 soles for consumption of greater than 20 cubic meters.
In contrast, water trucks charge 3.75 soles/cubic meter. However, the representative secretary
feels that going forward, new homes would prefer the conventional system. The
representative said that water-borne illnesses had reduced since the arrival of the condminial
networks.

While the experience in the Ventanilla settlement is favorable, this does not appear to be so
in other locations. The mission could not obtain a full inventory or the state of the
condominial connections that had been made under the project. Due to a variety of factors,
the condominial experiment did not take off in Lima. There were cases where contractors left
without completing the last stage of connections to the households. Several households chose
to keep the tap outside the home rather than have it installed inside their home. Thus, several
households did not complete the required construction work within their house. However, it
was the reluctance of the households to cooperate in dealing with clogs in the ‘grease-trap’
that caused the process to unravel.11 Feedback from contractors from workshops organized
after the project suggests that the contractors considers that the civil works for condominial
systems were more complex than for conventional systems, not only because the system was
new (the first experience in Peru), but also because of the difficult and complex
topographical conditions where civil works were executed. The condominial approach was
adopted by the Agua para todos program that began in 2006, but this did not last long
because the Agua para todos ran into corruption allegations and was discontinued.

Overall, the execution of condominial works faced difficulties related to (i) lack of legal
properties deeds for some of the beneficiaries, (ii) high entry costs incurred by the
beneficiaries, and (iii) diminished project credibility given the time lag between the
development of workshops and the execution of the works for project beneficiaries. In
retrospect, it appears that SEDAPAL did not have sufficient ownership of the condominial
approach, and finally decided to go with conventional system after 2013 for peri-urban areas.




11
   This is not a constraint in the poor urban areas of northeastern Brazil, where the condminial technique was
originally developed. In those areas, houses are typically built at the front of the plot, while the kitchens and
especially bathrooms are usually built in the backyard, sometimes quite far from the main house. Hence the
construction of the sewer connecting the backyards was an excellent technical solution in its original context,
allowing the pipes to follow the line of minimum distance between the bathrooms. A conventional solution,
moreover, would have ruined the pavements of almost all the houses. This technique therefore had a positive
impact on the communities where it was first introduced, and it still influences how sewage services are
implemented in poor areas of northeastern Brazil. (Earthea. Nance 2012: Engineers and Communities:
Transforming Sanitation in Contemporary Brazil. Lanham: Lexington Books)
                                                             48                                             APPENDIX C




Box 1. Condominial networks
 Whereas conventional systems essentially provide services to each housing unit, condominial
 systems deliver services to each housing block or any group of dwellings that could be termed a
 neighborhood unit or “condominium.” This is similar to the concept of providing a single
 connection to an apartment building, except that in this case the condominium is physically
 horizontal and institutionally informal. As a result of this novel concept, the public network no
 longer needs to run through every plot of land or to be present in every street, but merely to
 provide a single connection point to each city
 block. Therefore, the required length of the
 network is considerably shorter than that of a
 conventional system. It needs about half the
 length for sewerage and about a quarter of the
 length for water service.
 The household connections characteristic of
 conventional systems running perpendicular to
 the network are replaced by condominial
 branches running parallel to the blocks.
 Condominial branchesfor sewerage can be
 located in the most convenient part ofthe block
 (under sidewalks, front yards or backyards),
 while in the case of water they are generally located under sidewalks to allow for individual
 metering. This design permits the adaptation of the network to local topographic conditions and
 different urbanization patterns.
Source: Melo, Jose Carlos. 2005. The Experience of Condominial Water and Sewerage Systems in Brazil: Case Studies from Brasilia,
Salvador and Parauapebas. World Bank, Washington D.C.
Figure: KfW Water Symposium 2009
                                             49


APPENDIX D. Summary of Focus Group Discussions
The mission conducted a total of six focus group workshops in three locations in three
different regions/ districts. The focus group locations were picked from among the set of
treatment districts/villages used in the impact evaluation carried out in 2012, with preference
give to locations with higher number of beneficiaries and project investments in W&S
facilities; ready availability of technical record of investments; and relatively easy access.
The locations were Curamori and Las Lomas (Piura Region); Cangallo (Ayacucho Region),
and Canta- Santa Rosa de Quives (Lima Region)

Each focus group included of 8-10 participants with representation from young adults to
senior citizens, taking care to include women of child-bearing age, pregnant mothers, and
mothers with children under five years of age.

Location                   Province/Department           Men     Women      Total
Pampa Cruz                      - Ayacucho                13      10         23
Trapiche                Santa Rosa de Quives - Lima        5       5         10
Curamori                       Piura - Piura              8       13         21
Three Projects                                           26       28         54

The team met with members of the local water and sanitation management boards (JAAS) to
learn about the financial, management and technical issues faced by them in providing
regular services, and visited the water supply facilities in the three locations to observe their
state of operation. Interviews were conducted with technicians from the district
municipalities responsible for providing technical assistance to the JAASs as part of the
National Rural Sanitation Program (PNSR), which is currently responsible for monitoring the
works of the PRONASAR.

The areas of analysis and the target topics of the interviews conducted in the focus groups were
as follows:
     Health and Hygiene: Presence of gastrointestinal diseases in children under the age
        of 5; Hygiene and hand washing practices.
     Water Supply: Origin and type of water supply installation; Satisfaction level;
        Duration of service and sufficient quantity; Interruption of the water service; Payment
        capacity; Water quality and treatment’; Beneficiary participation; Institutional
        support.
     Sanitation: Origin and type of hygienic service: Satisfaction level; Use and
        maintenance; Payment capacity; Institutional support; Suggestions for improvement.

Health and Hygiene

a) Presence and Treatment of Gastrointestinal Diseases in Children under the Age of 5
   Of the 60 interviewees, only isolated cases were mentioned, with only one case involving
   a child under the age of five. It was mentioned that better preventive behavior and
   healthcare exist among the inhabitants benefited. Although use is still made of home
                                             50                                APPENDIX D


   remedies, the tendency to visit the health post or medical center for more severe cases
   appears to be rising.

b) Hygiene and Hand washing Practices: Most participants including men and women report
   adequate hygiene and hand washing practices, and that the water and rural sanitation
   project has aided in this achievement. Many participants recalled visits by social workers
   during the project period. Nevertheless, the use of soap is still irregular and not
   widespread. This was particularly observed in the case of Pampacruz (Ayacucho) and
   Trapiche (Lima). Health training seemed to particularly well received by the women.
   Disposal of infants’ stools by throwing in the fields or garbage dumps is still prevalent in
   Pampacruz (Ayacucho) and Trapiche (Lima), contrary to safe disposal suggested by
   extension workers.

Water Supply

Among the problems identified in the workshops with the focus groups are the following:

a) Origin and Type of Water Supply Installation: It was verified that project completed the
   multiuse washing installations as planned for the three projects sites. The participants
   expressed their satisfaction with the drinking water facility works implemented, except
   in the case of Ayacucho, where mention was made that one zone receives water on an
   irregular and highly limited basis. This is believed to be the result of a technical problem,
   in which the diameter of the pipe is too narrow.

b) Service Duration and Sufficient Quantity: Overall, respondents from Curamori and
   Trapiche showed greater satisfaction with drinking water services compared to
   Pampacruz. In the case of Curamori and Pampacruz, respondents confirmed continuity of
   the water services every day, although some restrictions in quantity or continuity have
   been observed at night and certain times during the morning. In Pampacruz, on the other
   hand, there are frequent interruptions in the lower zones.

c) Water Quality and Treatment
    The water supply is of good quality, and is treated with chlorine. The population
     regularly boils this water for consumption.
    Maintenance of the water facilities, many of which are over five years old now, is
     continually at risk because of insufficient resources worsened by a poor culture for
     payment for water services.
    In the case of Trapiche it was noted that residents dispose off old clothes in the
     sewerage system installed, generating increase in operating costs and in other, some
     families are wasting the water for lack of maintenance of the BUS.

d) Payment Capacity
   There is a high delinquency rate in the project areas of Trapiche and Pampacruz, even
   though the users themselves set the rates, which are quite low at Cangallo s/. 1 sol,
   Trapiche S/. 5 soles (3 soles water and 2 soles sewerage), per month. In Curamori, the
   project has installed a micro-metering system per cubic meter, and the payments
APPENDIX E                                  51


   currently allow for basic operation and maintenance. However, delinquency appears to be
   on the rise here, too, due to the relatively higher rates (20-25 soles per month (US$ 6.35 –
   7.94), on average).

e) Institutional Support
   JAASs in the three project areas are dependent on user fees, supplemented on an
   occasional and irregular basis by NGOs or cooperation agencies or other social projects,
   Support from District Municipalities through the newly created Technical Assistance
   Officers is limited to training and advisory for the provision of operating and
   maintenance services. While the Municipalities can support with investment activities (as
   was the case with Trapiche for the expansion of a reservoir), they generally have no
   financial resources available for repair and improvement works.

   A JASS is composed of volunteers with no remuneration, and limited or no resources to
   build managerial and administrative capacities. There is frequent turnover of members
   and abandonment of duties in the JASSs. They lack the resources to build these
   capacities, and the members are all volunteers who receive no economic recompense.
   This situation leads to the abandonment of duties and a high turnover among the people
   involved in the JAASs. The Municipalities provide very limited support to the JASSs
   beyond limited and sporadic training or technical assistance,

   The PNSR has not yet developed an effective strategy to meet demands for investment
   support in the projects of the PRONASAR that have been operating for more than five
   years.

Sanitation

a) Origin and Health Service Type
   PRONASAR has installed pour-flush type toilets with two percolation pits and a
   bathroom in beneficiary households in the three project areas. In the case of Trapiche and
   Curamori, there are housing units with connections to the sewerage system that were
   installed by the Techo Propio Program and the Municipality, respectively. The majority
   of the sanitation installations are currently in operation and use. The population
   frequently performed the cleaning and disinfection of their bathrooms or latrines.

b) Satisfaction Level
   Generally speaking, the population acknowledges the comfort and convenience offered
   by the type of latrine installed by PRONASAR. In the case of Trapiche, the new
   sewerage system is welcomed by the respondents. In the other two projects (Curamori
   and Pampacruz), beneficiaries were worried about the health impacts of maintaiing and
   use of lartines.

c) Payment Capacity
   Generally speaking, payment is not made for the sanitation service, or else it is included
   in the payment for water consumption, except in the case of Trapiche, where two
   different payments are made, although the payment for sewerage is extremely low.
                                            52                                 APPENDIX D



d) Institutional Support
   The Municipality is one of the few institutions that provide support, although in a very
   limited capacity, mainly in terms of training and technical assistance for the JASSs. In the
   case of Trapiche, improvements were implemented in the sewerage system.

DIFFERENT PERCEPTIONS OF THE FOCUS GROUPS BY GENDER

Health and Hygiene
    Women respondents exhibited greater awareness and responsibility for hygienic
      habits and sanitary conditions for the latrines and bathrooms installed by the project.
      Almost all women respondents reported regular handwashing relation to cooking and
      sanitary activities, and appear to insist on similar behavior from their familes
      including children. In addition to the extension activities sponsored by the project, the
      respondents gained from information and activities in schools provided by the
      Ministry of Health.

      No significant concerns on incidence of diarrhea were reported by the respondents.
       While this could be partly attributed to the project’s efforts, there is greater
       availability and use of primary health care centers apart from others, for diarrheic
       diseases, both in for children under the age of five and in senior citizens and adults,
       although there is still a culture of self-medication.

a) Service Duration and Sufficient Quantity
    Certain complaints were noted, especially among women, with regard to the continuity
      and pressure of the drinking water services. They stated that the water pressure drops
      at night and in the morning, a situation that was particularly noted in Curamori and
      Pampacruz.

b) Beneficiary Participation
    Feedback suggests that women were more active during fundraising and activities to
      obtain resources to buy inputs, exhibiting greater leadership in social oversight tasks.
      There appears to be greater incidence of women serving as treasurers of JASSs, while
      the physical works and the management of the JASSs was invariably men.

Institutional Organization and Management

At the community level, the responsibility for water and sanitation services rests with the
Community Water and Sanitation Services Association (JASS). A JASS is composed of
volunteers who do not receive any compensation for their work. It is legally constituted as
the Social Management Committee and is registered at the municipality. Members of a JASS
are expected to be rotated every two years.

JASS members have low administrative and technical capacity to manage the project facilities.
In addition, and it was noted that the administrative knowledge and project files were not
transferred to the new JASS members. Financial and accounting files are not kept adequately.
APPENDIX E                                  53


For instance, Trapiche project has such tools developed by PRONASAR but they were not
transferred to the new JASS administration.

There is a lack of monitoring and supervision of the JASS performance by the municipalities
and Ministry of Housing, Water and Sanitation (MVCS). An official went so far as to suggest
that the exact number of JASS is not known to the administration. Selection of new members
without further training. Lack of permanent water operational staff (operators) that maintain
water service infrastructure facility, found in Cangallo-Ayacucho and level of delinquency in
payments.

There was some informality observed in the functioning of the JASS since the members did
not keep adequately administrative documents such as the meeting acts, users registration,
operational plan, book inventory of tools and materials, and a payment collection report,
including the list of people behind payments, etc. Cura Mori has an office within the
municipality but the files were not shown. These data have been verbally communicated.
Although PRONASAR provided these tools and training, it is assumed that JASS
accountability could be deteriorated through time.
In the case of Cura Mori Project, it was mentioned that they are considering the allocation of
a monthly payment to the JASS members for assuming responsibilities to manage and
preserve the investment assets.
It is worth mentioning that the JASSs have a legal framework governing its functioning and
operation. The JASS responsibilities are defined in article 72 of the Regulations of the
General Sanitation Law, which states that the Water Boards Associations (JASS) are
responsible for providing water and sanitation services and for maintaining the infrastructure
with the support of the respective municipality. However, this obligation is not yet
implemented in accordance with the field visits. Also, the new Modernization Act for Water
and Sanitation Services states that JAAS facilities must be integrated, if possible with the
Water and Sanitation Services Municipal Companies (EPS municipal).

Definitively, there is a need to revise and develop a specific legal framework for the JASS, in
other words, improve the Article 72 of the Regulations of the General Sanitation LAW Under
this specific legal framework, the JASS could legally open a bank account, keep files and
documents, processing decrees for protecting their watersheds or wellspring, institute legal
proceedings, and apply coercive measures to reduce late payments or arrears, among others.
This functions and responsibilities will improve the management of the project facilities by
JASS.

Financial Sustainability of JASS

The financial aspect is the main factor for the sustainability of water and sanitation services
offered by JASS. On the one hand, there is the lack of culture of the users for paying a fee,
who consider water resources as a right rather than a public service, especially in a very poor
environment as the rural areas. The medium and low (even symbolic) default rates do not even
cover operating costs and less maintenance. This collection rates could have a high to medium
impact risks to the sustainability of the water services offered by PRONASAR.
                                             54                                APPENDIX D



Indeed, the three visited projects are vulnerable to such financial issues.

In the case of Cruz Pampa (Ayacucho) the payment delinquency rate is 90 percent, while the
monthly fee per household is just S/. 1.00 (US$ 0.32) resulting in an average revenue to the
JASS of S/. 10.00 (US$3.17). In this case, the financial situation clearly poor; the limited
resources are used mainly for the purchase of chlorine. Needless to say there are interruption
or failures of water supply to some households (especially in the lower area of the installed
facility) due to a lack of resources even for an operator on call. JASS members said they did
not have the capacity or resources to solve the technical problems to change valves and pipes.
Disinfection (chlorination) is carried out every three months; this generates a risk to
population health due to the low water quality.

In the case of Trapiche Santa Rosa de Quives (Lima), the collection delinquency ratio is 40
percent. The family fee is S/. 2.5 per cubic meter (US$0.79) on average and the average
revenue of the JASS is S/. 400.00 (US$ 126.98) per month. The households have water
meters installed. The JASS can cover operating costs (electricity, personnel operating cost,
chemical inputs) and limited maintenance but it does not allow the JASS to cover the major
corrective repairs and maintenance (replacement of valves, etc.) for which they have to seek
support from the district municipality. Despite the limited resources, this JASS has a
temporary operator who is paid on a daily basis or by task thoug it not clear if this is
supplemented by individual contributions when urgent repairs are needed; the focus group
respondents confirmed that they are satisfied with the operation of the W&S facility, and the
quality and continuity of the water supply. It is worth noted that the beneficiary population is
considered as medium poor income population with greater work opportunities so the
population can pay higher fee rates.

In Cura Mori (Piura), unlike the two previous cases, the delinquency rate is just 10 percent.
The family fee is S/. 10 (US$ 3.17) and the Central JASS average income is greater than S/.
6,500 (US$ 1,905) and able to cover its operating costs, maintenance, repairs including
savings to meet. It has a permanent operator, who is paid on a monthly basis around s/. 600
(US$ 190.5). Thus, the quality of the water facility is good and there is continuity of the
water supply to the residents of the district.

Finally, in both cases with high delinquency, there is a need to remedy and to raise awareness
activities to generate payments and to change the culture in the rural population. Building
capacity at the JASS or at municipalities is necessary. In this sense, if the JASS can not cover
their costs of operation and maintenance, and not able to invest in major repairs, then, in the
future or medium term, it will generate a deterioration of not only the project facility but also
a deterioration of the quality of services. In general, all these factors are real risks faced by
JASS and cannot be ignored by the authorities of the MVCS and specifically PNSR staff,
which manage the rural sanitation sector in the country.

In addition, there is no mechanism for monitoring and quality control of W&S services,
although during the field visits there were a representative or staff of the corresponding
Municipality. Some of them were well informed, but others were not.
APPENDIX E                                  55



Finally, it is essential that the PNSR should develop an Information System for monitoring the
projects financed by PRONASAR and at least a basic information data or reports on the
services provided by JASS, to then, the municipalities could adjust their intervention demands
and focus on improving the W&S services.

Role of Municipalities and JASS Support

During the field visits, IEG team and the consultant team met with members of the JASS
together with the representatives of municipalities. Table 8 shows some key indicators by
visited projects and its relation between the JASS and the corresponding municipality. A
summary of the table follows:

      The municipalities have at least one person responsible for the technical area, in the
       case of Cruz Pampa Project; the Municipality of Cangallo (Ayacucho) has a person in
       charge of ATM person. The draft Trapiche, the District Municipality of Santa Rosa de
       Quives (Lima) has three people. In Cura Mori (Piura) project the district municipality
       has two.
      In all three cases, the municipalities made the recognition and registration of the JASS.
      In planning, they have been advanced to support several actions: in the case of Pampa
       Cruz project the municipality has made some extensions of the drinking water through
       NGOs, in the Trapiche ATM project has improved the reservoir Water (10 m3) and the
       network of drains. Cura Mori in the project has been carried out and inventory needs.
      In all cases municipalities have co-funded 20 percent of the costs with the
       PRONASAR.
      In terms of assistance and supervision, the Cangallo Ayacucho JASS has not received
       any support from the municipality staff; just in case some Trapiche a training course
       was held to operators and sporadic supervision visits. In the case of Cura Mori, the
       municipality only provides an office space for JASS collections of users fees.
      The ATM units have recently installed and there is a need to have specialized personnel
       and regular monitoring to JASS and registering the project facilities and assess the state
       of the operation and maintenance of project investments.
      Health education campaigns are carried out by the health sector, and no further action
       by the ATM.
      No municipality has a real diagnosis of existing water and sanitation infrastructure
       financed by PRONASAR nor an inventory of investment needs. There is no database
       of the investment facilities at the municipal level or at the MVCS.

The ATM at the municipal level still have many limitations to meet the needs of the JASS,
particularly in terms of financial resources and technical training. But it must be recognized
that it is an important development that should be consolidated, expanded and improved.

The MVCS through PNSR do not have a mechanism of supervision and monitoring of the
ATM and a complementary financing mechanism for small investments for operation and
maintenance that cannot be covered by the JASS due to limited resources such as the case of
Ayacucho whose population can be considered extremely poor.
                                            56                                APPENDIX D



SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES

In order to have sustained water and sanitation services at the rural communities there are some
measures that need to be taken into account and these are: (i) physical investments or systems
being properly in operation (outputs), (ii) financial arrangements for operation and
maintenance (intermediate outcome), (iii) institutional framework and capacity at MVCS and
Municipal levels to monitor and evaluate performance of W&S services facilities at rural
community level, and (iv) sustained water and sanitation services in the rural areas through
JASS management.

Physical Infrastructure Investments for W&S service projects. The physical sustainability
of the project investments depends not only on the level of revenues or cost recovery for
operations and maintenance, but also on other factors such as the technical and institutional
capacity and incentives by the JASS members in order to carry out proper operation and
maintenance. Furthermore, long-term financial sustainability depends on whether the
institutional arrangements for implementing cost recovery or collecting fees are sound and
responsive to local conditions. The JASSs need to contract either permanently or part-time
operators who are paid for their services out of income revenues, and cost recovery rules. As
mentioned before, the JASSs are experiencing difficulties in covering cost for operations and
maintenance, as the tariffs are typically set too low, especially in Cangallo-Ayacucho, the
poorest area of the visited projects. Definitively, the JASSs need more training and supervision
from the municipalities and continue support from the MVCS. In rural areas, the beneficiary
communities will not be able to operate and maintain their W&S services facilities if they do
not collect sufficient revenues on a monthly basis.

Post-investment. Municipalities were supposed to play the role of external oversight of W&S
projects. With the creation of ATM at the Municipality level, there is an opportunity that the
MVCS or PNSR could provide technical assistant and resources for those rural communities
with very low-income for key operation and maintenance activities, materials and parts and for
training technical operators within the community.

Institutional framework and Technical Capacity at JASS. The JASSs are working under
an uncertain legal and institutional framework. There is a need to continue with JASSs
assessment after post investment of the projects implemented by PRONASAR to then, develop
a new decree that could improve JASSs management, otherwise, the W&S projects will be at
risk due to the poor administration performance.
                     57


APPENDIX E. Borrower Comments
                                                58                                    APPENDIX E

From: Victor Sevilla [mailto:vsevilla@vivienda.gob.pe]
Sent: Friday, June 24, 2016 1:52 PM
To: Midori Makino <mmakino@worldbank.org>
Cc: rjammi@worlbank.org; Juan Haro Muñoz <jharo@vivienda.gob.pe>
Subject: Comentarios PPAR PRONASAR PE

Estimada Srta Midori Makino,

Adjunto al presente los comentarios que han merecido el borrador del documento del asunto.
De considerarlo como pertinente podríamos dar la versión en inglés quedando a sus órdenes.

Cordialmente;




Srta
Midori Makino

Gerente Unidad de Desarrollo Sostenible
Asunto: Comentarios Borrador del Reporte de Evaluación de Desempeño (PPAR). National Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (PRONASAR)

Pág. 25, Item 3.19. Resulta inexacta la afirmación de que FONCODES iba a tener un nuevo rol. Se
debe tener en cuenta que FONCODES a esa fecha, 2004, había ya acumulado suficiente experiencia
en trabajar por demanda y movilizando a las comunidades, experiencia adquirida con el modelo de
Núcleos Ejecutores. Los Núcleos ejecutores, se añade, tenían que aportar con mano de obra no
calificada. En conclusión no tiene asidero la afirmación vertida por el evaluador. FONCODES venía
desempeñando ese rol desde 1991.

Pág 25, Item 3.20. Se estima que lo vertido en este ítem requiere un análisis más profundo. En
principio, los proyectos sin ejecutar al cierre del contrato no han sido dejados de lado, siguen siendo
atendidos por el MVCS a través del Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Rural (PNSR) y han sido
adecuados a las exigencias del Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública mediante la revisión de su
viabilidad como conglomerado.

Afirma en el reporte “que el PNSR motivó a que los alcaldes decidieran no continuar” es discutible
pues el PNSR en el 2012 identificó las localidades más pobres con poblaciones entre 200 y 2,000
habitantes del medio rural y que excluía a aquellas localidades en la cartera del entonces
PRONASAR. La causa para ese desistimiento de los Alcaldes podría más bien deberse a la falta de
capacidad financiera u otras prioridades.

Pág 26, Item 3.23. El ítem demanda una aclaración. Cuando el autor del reporte dice que los
pobladores aspiran a un sistema de disposición de excretas como el de las ciudades, ésto supone
sistemas de alcantarillado lo cual induce al lector a concordar con la falsa conclusión de que las
fuentes de agua no tendrían caudal suficiente para atender la demanda de la población. Es probado
que sistemas de alcantarillado no son adecuados para localidades pequeñas típicas del medio rural
pues entre otros, para que funcionen adecuadamente requieren de un uso más intensivo de agua que
APPENDIX E                                      59

no se da en el medio rural, mas no así con sistemas de arrastre hidráulico familiar. Finalmente, a partir
de la experiencia recogida por el PNSR, no se tienen perfiles de proyecto declarados no viables por
caudal insuficiente de la fuente de agua, lo que invita a señalar que no es del todo exacto que una
limitante sea la fuente de agua.

Pág 30, Item 3.41. Lo afirmado en este ítem es contradictorio lo dicho en el ítem 3.34 de la página 28.

Pág. 31, Item 3.44. Es inexacto que el PNSR no tenga una estrategia para darle soporte a las
Municipalidades, JASS y Direcciones Regionales de Vivienda. En el último trimestre del 2014 se
inició conjuntamente con el Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas y el Ministerio de Desarrollo e
Inclusión Social el plan de estímulos a Gobiernos Locales que comprende no sólo el fortalecimiento
de capacidades sino el otorgamiento de fondos a los gobiernos subnacionales para que implementen
el rol que les corresponde en agua y saneamiento siendo uno de esos el mantenimiento de la obras de
su jurisdicción.

Pág. 35, Item 3.64. Estimo que el parecer del Banco hacia FONCODES fue adecuado si tenemos en
cuenta que el número de proyectos implementados entre 1991 y 2002 fue superior a los 37,000 y al
comparar el número de proyectos que esa entidad tenía en el 2004 se observará que se había tenido
una notable y significativa disminución con respecto a otros años del periodo citado. La causa no está
en la entidad ni modelo que propugnaba la entidad, FONCODES, sino en otra. Considero que la
afirmación vertida por el evaluador no es correcta y merece un mayor análisis antes de concluir.
