Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2597-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
SECOND DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 13, 1979
This document has  r restricted dibution ad may be ued by recipients only in the peWormance of
their official duties. Its contents may ndot therwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 33 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently
the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1.00     =   Taka 15.5
Taka 1.00   =   US$0.0645
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm      -   millimeter (0.04 inches)
m       -   meter (39.37 inches)
km      -   kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha      -   hectare (10,000 m  or 2.47 acres)
Sq. K   -   square kilometer (0.386 sq. miles)
1       -   liter (0.22 Imperial Gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd     -   liters per capita per day
gcd     -   gallons (Imperial) per capita per day
cum     -   cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
mld     -   million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial
gallons per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
ml      -   million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mgd     -   million imperial gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   The Asian Development Bank
AIC     -   Average Incremental Cost
DPHE    -   Department of Public Health Engineering
DMC     -   Dacca Municipal Corporation
ECNEC   -   Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
GON     -   Government of the Netherlands
MLGRD   -   Ministry of Local Government Rural
Development and Cooperatives
PEC     -   Project Evaluation Committee
WASA    -   Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



BANGLADESH             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:         Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (WASA).
Amount:              US$22 Million Equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The IDA credit will be on-lent from GOB to WASA at
7 percent per annum over a period of 25 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace. GOB will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Purpose:             The project will provide water supply and sewerage
facilities to meet Dacca's urgent needs. Specifically,
the project will assist in financing: metered tube wells
and water mains, storage tanks, service connections with
meters, leak detection equipment, and secondary sewers.
Consultancy fees are provided for supervision of project
works as well as feasibility studies for a follow-up
project. The project includes a training component,
directed mainly towards operational staff.
The project will benefit well over a quarter million
urban pDor through provision of additional connections,
public standpipes and sewers. Direct benefits of whole-
some water supplies and shorter waiting times at public
hydrants will be supplemented by indirect environmental
and public health benefits.
The project faces no special physical risks. The
institutional risks are somewhat greater, however, and
full support of GOB and maintenance of strong management
will bet necessary to achieve the financial improvement
objectives of the project.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
[rci ir official duties Its contents may not therwie be diskosed without Woddbnk authoiERsion.



Estimated Project Costs:                                   Local Foreign  Total
---- US$ Million-----
Equipment and Civil Works              6.4   10.0    16.4
Consulting Services                    1.4    2.5      3.9
Training                               0.1    0.3      0.4
Land Acquisition                       0.3     -       0.3
Physical Contingencies                 1.2    1.9      3.1
Price Contingencies                    3.2    2.6      5.8
Subtotal Net of Duties and Taxes   12.6   17.3    29.9
Duties and Taxes                      11.8     -      11.8
Total Project Cost                    24.4   17.3    41.7
Financing Plan:                                   GOB   IDA       Total
(Net of t-axes and duties)                        ----US$ Million----
7.9   22.0      29.9
F.sti.nat  i_sbursements:                      FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
-------US$ Million-------
Annual                     9.5  10.0    2.0    0.4
Cumulative                 9.5  19.5   21.6   22.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        About 5 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh - Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, June 13, 1979, Report No. 2443b-BD.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND IECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
SECOND DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to tlhe People's Repub]Lic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$22.0
million, on standard IDA termns, to help finance the Second Dacca Water
Supply and Sewerage Project. The proceeds of the Credit would be relent
to the Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority for 25 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum. To cover advance
payments for equipment, and mnaterials, retroactive financing of up to
US$250,000 is provided for payments after March 1, 1979.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distribated to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974.  An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978; its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD) was circulated
on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade, and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry to the changed
market conditions.
4.         Thne first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. Bangladesh's terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply. The production of jute, the predominant export,
stagnated. Inflation, declining real wages, labor unrest and political
instability added to the troubles. During this early period, relief
rehabilitation and consolidation of Government authority were unavoidably
the paramount concerns of poLicy makers.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater
political stability, signal a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and somewhat brighten its economic prospects. The present



-2 -
time can be characterized as a period of consolidation of the country's
economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970's. It is also a period
which offers planners and policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a funda-
mental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
has given GOB officials time to carefully consider the development strategy
and policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July
1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        The most notable recent development has been the parliamentary
elections held in February 1979. Since 1975, Bangladesh had been governed
under martial law and without a parliament. In the recent elections, some 29
political parties and groups contested the 300 seats in the National Assembly.
Roughly two-thirds of the seats were won by the Nationalist Party headed by
President Ziaur Rahman, who had previously been confirmed as President in
the election held in June 1978. The Assembly will have substantial powers,
including control over the country's finances. Martial law was lifted fol-
lowing the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979. One area in which
the Government is expecting a salutary effect is in the investment climate; it
is hoped that both domestic and foreign investors will be encouraged. It
is also anticipated that the Government will soon be able both to take major
decisions on important policy issues and to implement programs that have
been pending the outcome of the recent elections.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.  Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline in
the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by 7.8%
in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in FY77. For the third year in a row,
Bangladesh was spared major droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output
reached a record level of 13.1 million tons. The favorable results in agri-
culture are explained not only by good weather but also by constructive
Government actions resulting in sharply increased supplies of fertilizer,
other agricultural inputs and credit, and larger and more efficient procure-
ment effort, at prices attractive to farmers. Results for wheat have been
particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased substantially in FY78,
partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) which, in only a
few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000 acres and is expected to cover
one million acres in the current year. However, raw jute prices remained
high due to increased demand and the depletion of inventories in prior years.
These high raw jute prices and an increase in jute workers salaries were major
factors contributing to the jute mills' continued large financial losses.
8.        The strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an increase in investment, and improved availability of
imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was stimulated by
increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, by an intensification of
construction activity, and by a liberalized import policy for industrial raw
materials and spare parts.



- 3 -
9.        It is still too early for an accurate assessment of the economy's
overall performance in FY79. Present indications are that agricultural pro-
duction will be below last year's level, mainly due to adverse weather. A
low level of foodgrain procurement, food imports below projected levels,
and high offtake rates have led to the possibility that food stocks could
fall to undesirably low levels in the coming months. Remedial actions are
now now underway to accelerate foodgrain import deliveries. Investments in
the public and private sector -- particularly in manufacturing -- have shown
some growth momentum, and the construction sector appears to be booming.
Wheather the overall GDP growth rate for the year will still be ahead of
population growth is uncertain.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a sub-
stantial upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.
The net result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same
time, development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid
disbursements, deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77.
Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a balanced
budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue and
large aid disbursements, there may still be an overall deficit. Reasons for
this include an apparent underestimation of the cost of the fertilizer sub-
sidy, the still heavy weight of the food subsidy, and the dampening effect of
wage increases on the revenue transfers by the public corporations. Expan-
sionary factors include the stepped-up grain procurement program, expanding
agricultural credit, and increasing financial needs of the private industrial
sector. It: will be hard to contain the combined effect of these potentially
inflationary factors during the current year. Monetary and credit restraint,
and most importantly, increased efforts in domestic resource mobilization
will be required in order to create the conditions for balanced future growth.
11.       The most significarnt development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth:  fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 million FY78. (It should be noted, however, that this was
less than FY75 and FY76 deficits which averaged $950 million.) The increased
export earnings in FY78 represented a continuation of a trend that began with



- 4 -
the 1975 devaluation. The main determinant of last year's improvement was a
16% increase in export prices, especially of traditional exports such as
jute and tea. Although raw jute exports declined due to supply shortages,
jute goods exports were buoyant, mainly due to fiber shortages in inter-
national markets, some substitution of jute for synthetics, and government
incentive policies, including special export bonus subsidies. Jute and jute
product exports still account for about 70% of total Bangladeshi exports.
The growth of minor and non-traditional exports in FY78 was modest as com-
pared with the previous year.
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East. These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $100 million this year. An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led both to higher costs
for skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects.
(An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's central research
program.)
14.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over $1
billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding recent gains, especially in foodgrain output and
per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass
poverty; a unique environment prone to natural disasters; and dependence on
aid, not only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent
inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertil-
ity remains largely unchecked. A large part of the adult population is
illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has
largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the early 1970's, in a number
of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In FY78 per capita income
($91), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment ratio (13%
of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate, after some years of
depression to considerably lower levels. And the country remains critically
dependent upon foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public investment.
16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.3 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be in-
adequate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented.



- 5 -
The density of population on the land is already extremely high, and land-
lessness is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising
nearly 90% of Bangladesh's 85 million people) is landless or virtually land-
less. Population growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually.
The country's resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other
natural resoures, except for natural gas deposits, are meager. The infra-
structure remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and administrative
skills has hindered the country's ability both to plan and to implement its
policies and projects effectively.
17.       Confronted by the formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP), as
noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and
longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population
control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for
family planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to
provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement
policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to
improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute
manufacturing sector.  Greatesr scope is being given to the private industrial
sector. The Government has established a Project Implementation Bureau as a
means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The beneficial
results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in a number of
cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is, of course,
unlikely to change the course of development, since its period is too short
and most of the development budget during these two years (83%) is preempted
by ongoing projects. Moreover, the TYP's targets in the fundamental areas of
employment creation and popuLation control are unrealistic. A further weakness
is that the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic projects have been
weeded out nor what criteria are to be used to make decisions about abandoning
such projects during the remainder of the TYP period.
18.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies in agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
19.       Although work on both the Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the
Second Five Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage, present indications
are that the Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and



- 6 -
institutional changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentraliza-
tion of planning; (ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985;
(iii) employment creation and population control; (iv) drastic reductions
in subsidies and other means to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a
major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It remains to be seen, of course,
what specific new modalities will be devised for achieving these broad
objectives. But clearly these are all central objectives, and much of IDA's
own economic and sectoral work program is currently addressed to the analysis
of rural development (including the dynamics of demographic growth), food
production, trade policy and industrial development prospects, and domestic
resources mobilization. Considerable attention is also being given, par-
ticularly by IDA's resident mission, to finding ways and means to improve
aid coordination and project implementation.
20.       It appears to be generally appreciated, therefore, that in the
preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic short and
medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent resource
allocation pattern will need to focus on the following key areas: First,
and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to check
the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase effec-
tive delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. The rural
power and social structure compound the inherent difficulties in mounting
and administering large programs that will reach effectively the many mil-
lions of people that live in Bangladeshi villages. These difficulties must
be tackled with great resolve and singleness of purpose if they are to be
overcome. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and industrial devel-
opment are essential to the country's future economic vaibility. In this
connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion of labor-
intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish, leather,
paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion of new
industrial export products are essential elements of a successful export
strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobilization.
While the potential for increased public and private saving beyond the rate
of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin should be possible
through measures to increase taxation, improve tax administration and reduce
the very large subsidies to public corporations. The Government has been
considering new means to mobilize additional domestic resources. At the
June 1978 meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group, the Government announced
its decision to establish five committees to consider the following issues:
(i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationalization of the rate
structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing by public
utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including the
fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance of



public sector enterprises. The committees have recently concluded their work
and reported their recommendations to the Government. Furthermore, a detailed
survey of the jute industry was recently completed; this should lead to a mod-
ernization program and eventually to improved management practices, increased
labor productivity and better financial performance. The final report of the
Taxation Enquiry Commission was also submitted to the Government in early 1979.
A start will be made to implement some of the recommendations of both the
resource mobilization committees and the Commission in the context of the FY80
budget to be submitted to the Parliament on June 2, 1979.
21.       While these elements of a development strategy are not the only
requirements to improve the economy, they are among the most important and
will themselves place heavy demands on an understaffed and overburdened
development administration. The fifth area, therefore, is to strengthen the
administration and to economize on the demands placed upon it. Where admin-
istrative capacity is limited, administrative controls in such matters as
industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade should be minimized to
the extent feasible and consistent with social objectives. There remains
considerable scope also for administrative economy in these and other areas
and through greater decentralization of authority and responsibility.
22.       External Capital RLequirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization , Bangladesh will continue to need
substantiaL external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development: expenditures has begun to accelerate. It is
roughly estimated that aid clisbursements, which amounted to $797 million in
FY78, should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 mil-
lion of food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid.
Since Bangladesh began the year with an aid pipeline amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 miLlion of disbursements from new aid would be
necessary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, required FY79 commitments are estimated at approximately
$1,600 million. On the basis of donor pledges and indications given at the
January 1979 Aid Group meet-ings, and taking into account actual and prospec-
tive commitments by other donors, it appears that this target will be realized.
It is important to stress that Bangladesh's capital requirements must be met
to a large extent by external assistance, at least for the time being, if
economic growth and execution of current development plans are not to be
slowed for lack of financial resources. At the same time, the Government
must strive to increase exports, to be prudent in the use of foreign exchange,
and to make increased efforts to increase domestic resource mobilization.
Finally, in the context of the above-noted limitations of Bangladesh's devel-
opment administration, it should be recognized that substantial improvements
in administration are likely to take many years. Hence, the Government, IDA
and other external assistance agencies will have to tailor their requirements
in terms of project design, preparation and implementation to these adminis-
trative realities. And in all cases, particular priority should be given to
those sectors and those types of financial and technical assistance where
instituticnal improvements are most needed.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made
to Bangladesh. In addition, as of May 31, 1979, 32 new credits, excluding
the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 24, have
been made, totalling US$900.7 million. Of these, US$500 milLion have been
for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural
development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunications,
transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member
of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (Highspeed Shipbuilding and Engineering
Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the late 1980's, it could
do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank
Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed
on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding
external debt is not expected to rise significantly above the! present level
of about 27% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged somewhat owing inter
alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government has taken some
steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are now being reflected in
improvements in project implementation and disbursement performance. However,
serious implementation constraints remain because of shortage of qualified
staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficien-
cies. Progress is being made on these issues. For example, at the Govern-
ment's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve organization and proce-
dures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing with agriculture and
water resources. Furthermore, the Government has taken actions including
improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and increased emphasis
on training - which are important not only as steps towards gradually improv-
ing the quality of public administration, but also as evidence of its aware-
ness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the organizational



side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning cells in the
main ministries and agencies and is strengthening the Planning Ministry. In
this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and
under three Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD).
26.       Of the 25 new project credits totalling US$400.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of
inputs, including assured waiter, through quick yielding projects with low
capital intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing
so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the short term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistaince where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
proposed credits for rural works and low-lift pumps are expected to be ready
for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraph's 34-39 of the Presi-
dent's Report and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit
(P-2373-BD, dated November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will
continue to be required whilie efforts are made to correct basic structural
weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total
lending on a year-to-year basis is planned to decline gradually during the
next few years. The industrial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small
industry projects and a fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in
the process of identifying suitable investment opportunities.
28.       Ihe enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and the second population project has now been approved. Improved education
and availability of trained imanpower are also crucial. Past lending in this
field has emphasized agricultural and technical training. A vocational train-
ing project has been approved this fiscal year. Future operations, while
maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are also expected to include assistance
for primary education and management training.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunications are now underway. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make significant contributions towards supporting Bangladesh development



- 10 -
efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing cf local currency
expenditures is also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to con-
template higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is the
case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pains-
taking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
32        About a third of Bangladesh's area lies on the Ganges/Brahmaputra
Delta; rainfall, concentrated in the monsoon period, generally exceeds 1,500 mm
annually. This combination of abundant rainfall and great rivers entering the
country, along with a generally porous subsoil, ensures that water is plenti-
ful either from surface or underground sources. About 56% of the 83 million
people now have reasonably safe supplies of tubewell water but the remainder
still depend on easily contaminated surface sources such as streams, tanks and
dugwells.
33.       Most public water supplies use groundwater which requires less
treatment and therefore is generally cheaper than surface water. Groundwater
supplies are adequate for present needs. However, interest in surface water
sources is growing especially in the cities of Dacca and Chittagong because of
the possible long-term limitations of local aquifers in relation to rapidly
increasing urban requirements. Therefore, studies will be undertaken to
determine the extent to which aquifers can continue to be safely exploited
(para 46).



- 11 -
34.       Urban sanitation in Dacca is unsatisfactory.  Only part of the pop-
ulation has access to a water borne sewerage system; elsewhere night soil
conservancy is prevalent with direct disposal to fields. Pit privies and
septic tanks are used to a very limited extent. Compared with the 56% of the
population having access to wholesome water, only about 8% benefit from waste
disposal services. This compares with an average access level of 38% to
water and 33% to waste disposal in all developing countries.
35.       Sector development was interrupted by the war of independence in
1971 but has gradually improved over the past five or six years; during this
period investment in water sapply and sewerage has been about 7% of GOB
development expenditures, a level which is unlikely to increase in the near
future given the urgent and competing claims of other sectors of the economy.
Institutions
36.       GOB exercises control of the sector through the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD). The agencies operat-
ing under NIGRD are the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE), the
municipalities and the Water and Sewerage Authorities (WASAs) in Dacca and
Chittagong. Supporting these agencies' activities are several international
organizations. WHO and UNICEF have been active in the rural areas where an
extensive program for the provision of hand pump tubewells is in progress.
The total cost for this program up to 1978 has been US$47 million, including
US$14 million for rural sanitation. Funding is committed to 1980, but the
program extends up to 1985. Water supply projects in Barisal, Bogra, Comilla,
Jessore ancd Mymensingh are being prepared for consideration by the Asian
Development. Bank. Projects have been completed in Dacca and Chittagong
with IDA support and IDA has participated in preparation of further projects
for both cities. In addition, GOB has obtained assistance from the Government
of the Netherlands (GON) for a feasibility study for a project in Khulna and
intends to approach GON for similar support in Rajshahi. GOB has indicated
that they will seek financial support from IDA if projects emerge for Khulna
and Rajshahi.
37.       I)PHE develops and executes water supply projects countrywide (Dacca
and Chittagong excepted) and operates and maintains waterworks throughout
the rural areas. In urban aLreas, DPHE generally turns over operational and
maintenance responsibilities to the municipalities. In Dacca and Chittagong,
the WASAs have responsibility for all aspects of water supply and sewerage.
In the rural areas no charge is made for water consumed. In municipalities,
including D)acca and Chittagong, a charge is made for water consumed by house
connections; but this charge frequently covers only a small percentage of the
cost of operation, maintenance and depreciation.  The remaining costs are
covered from the Government budget. Water from standpipes is provided free
of charge to the users.
The Water Supply and Sewerage Authority of Dacca (WASA)
38.        Under the management of a Chairman WASA functions as a semi-
autonomous entity under MLGRD. The Chairman is assisted by a secretariat,
a commercial division and two engineering divisions, one dealing with



- 12 -
project planning, design and construction, and the other with operation and
maintenance. This organization, created only recently, is appropriate for
WASA's needs and will facilitate future operational improvement. Prior to any
new reorganization, WASA will afford IDA a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views thereon (Section 3.03(b) of the Project Agreement).
Training
39.       The steady increase in water supply and sewerage facilities in
the country places a strain on maintenance resources. In the rural areas,
replacement of obsolete hand pump tubewells amounts to 37% of the current
program.  Ordinary day-to-day maintenance is subject to delays because the
number of repairmen is insufficient. Trained operators for tubewells, water
treatment plant and sewage pumping stations in the urban areas are scarce and
training facilities and instructors are needed for training of additional
sl a Ef .
40.       Training, mostly directed at the upper levels of the organization,
was provided under Credit 368-BD and supplemented by other multilateral and
bilateral donors. The training element in the proposed project is direcl:ed
at the operational staff, and focusses on the development of a suitable in-
house training capability. Chittagong WASA will contribute 1:o the planned
joint training effort. Ultimately, the training organization may develop
into a nationwide vocational training center for the sector. WASA will
appoint a training officer by December 31, 1979 who will prepare proposals for
the establishment of a training program for WASA staff (Section 3.03 (c) of
the Project Agreement), and will carry out an overseas fellowship program
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
Problem Areas
41.       Water borne diseases and those arising from unsanitary conditions
represent one of the country's major health problems. The health benefits of
improved sanitation gradually brought about by hygiene education are critically
dependent on access to safe water and improved sewerage systems. Only Dacca
has a water borne sewerage system and the improvements and extensions to it,
completed under the first project with IDA support, have extended the main
sewerage system throughout 75% of the city area. 'rowever, the benefits
which the system offers are not being realized as quickly as had been hoped.
Householders in some areas have been reluctant to take connections, being
satisfied to continue using septic tanks.  To overcome this problem WASA
will enforce connections for households within 100 feet of a sewer or charge
for sewerage services regardless of whether or not they are actually connected
(Section 4.05(c) of the Project Agreement).
42.       Extensions to the water supply system during the period 1964-1979
failed to keep abreast of the population increase during the same period
(fr,ra about 680,000 inhabitants in 1964 to about 2.5 million inhabitants
in 1979). Per capita water supply in Dacca, which had reached a level of



13 -
about 110 'Lcd in 1964, dropped to a level of about 86 lcd in 1979, although
total production increased from about 75 mld in 1964 to about 214 mld in
1979.
Experience with Previous Project
43.       Under the previous Credit 368-BD (1973; US$13.2 million) IDA provided
financial support for the provision of 46 tubewells, 200 kilometers of water
mains, rehabilitation of a small (13 mld) surface water treatment plant and
200 kilometers of sewers plus ancillary elements in Dacca. Execution of the
project was slow. Technical problems included slow delivery of materials,
contractual difficulties, slow customs clearance, and delays in supplying
electric power to sewage pumping stations. These problems mostly reflected
weak senior management. With the appointment of a dynamic Chairman two years
ago, discipline has improved and technical difficulties are being overcome.
44.       Ihe project had also been plagued by financial problems.  However,
in response to a continuing dialogue between WASA and IDA, these problems
have gradually abated, and in the last two years tariffs have been sufficient
to cover operating and maintenance expenses, interest charges and deprecia-
tion. Further progress is necessary and feasible. Under the project, WASA's
financial position will continue to improve as the effects of the program
formulated in consultation with IDA begin to be felt (paragraphs 54-63 below).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was prepared by Dacca WASA with the assistance
of consultants and Bank StafE and was appraised in November/December 1978.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2443b-BD dated June 13, 1979 is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington on May 14-16, 1979. The Government of Bangladesh and WASA were
represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Anisuzzaman, Secretary, MLGRD. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The proposed project is an interim measure to prevent a major water
shortage for the population in WASA's service area during the next 5 years.
Additional water will be provided to maintain a level of supply of about 90
lcd. Complementary objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  extending the distribution system to an additional 300,000
people who are now without convenient access to safe water;
(b)  improving the quality of water service to about 600,000
present consumers through removal of system deficiencies,
mainly in the old city;
(c)  eKtending sewer service to about 300,000 inhabitants in areas
already served by trunk sewers constructed under the first
project;



- 14 -
(d) preparing a long-term planning and feasibility study for a
third water supply project;
(e) achieving managerial and financial improvements.
The above feasibility study concerned with the development of Dacca's long-
term water supply and sewerage project, will assess Dacca's future water
supply requirements, will determine the most economic source of water, and
will estimate the cost of the project. It will also include a comprehensive
tariff study.
Project Description
47.       The project will provide 24 tubewells and associated water mains
and storage tanks to improve distribution of water, around the city fringes
and in the congested old city. The daily supply would be increased by 40%
from 214 mld to 300 mld. Small diameter sewers will be added to secure the
full benefits of the trunk sewerage system developed under the first project.
The project will also provide for 25,000 new service connections with meters,
and 25,000 meters for existing connections as well as leak detection equipment.
There will also be provision for training and consultancy services, including
those required for the planning and feasibility study for the third (long-
term) project.
Project Costs
48.       The cost of the project is as follows:
Foreign Local Total
----US$ Million-----
Equipment and Civil Works            10.0      6.4   16.4
Consulting Services                   2.5      1.4    3.9
Training                              0.3      0.1    0.4
Land Acquisition                       -       0.3    0.3
12.8     8.2   21.0
Contingencies
(i)  Physical                       1.9      1.2    3.1
(ii)  Price                          2.6      3.2    5.8
NET PROJECT COST                      17.3    12.6   29.9
Duties and Taxes                        -     11.8   11.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    17.3    24.4   41.7
The estimates for equipment and civil works are based on bids for similar
equipment recently obtained in connection with the first project (Cr,e-dii:
368-BD) and on the cost of comparable work undertakufi hijring 1978.  Phy-
sical contingencies of 15% and price contingencies of 7% per year on the
foreign cost and 10% on the local cost were allowed for. The cost of
engineering is estimated on the basis of US$8,000 per man-month for foreign
consultants and Tk 4,000 per man-month for local consultants. Duties and
taxes have been added in accordance with local regulations.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
49.       WASA will be responsible for project implementation.  It will be
assisted by consultants in design, drafting of bidding documents, bid evalua-
tion and construction supervision. Project construction will be carried
out by local contractors. All construction is straightforward and local
contractors are experienced in this type of work. The bulk of construction
is expected to be completed by mid-1982 and project completion in all respects
is scheduled for December 31, 1982.
Financial and Institutional Improvements
50.       WiASA's financial situation has been less than satisfactory for many
years with Low rates of return and insufficient internal cash generation.
WASA's rate of return on net fixed assets in operation reached 0.6% in FY76,
1.7% in FY77 and 1.7% in FY78, and it is expected that it will only break
even in FY7'3. Internal cash generation financed on an average 14% of WASA's
investments. However, this level of internal cash generation could be reached
only because WASA's debt service requirements have been insignificant, leaving
most of the depreciation charge available for investment financing.
51.       Thie main reasons for WASA's unfavorable financial performance to
date are the following:
(a)  inadequate tariff levels;
(b)  inadequate metering resulting in excessive consumption by
unmetered customers and difficulty in detecting unauthorized
connections; and
(c)  inadequate billing and collection.
The Government and WASA have recognized that a decisive improvement effort
is required for WASA to become a financially viable and soundly managed
utility. The major elements of WASA's improvement program have been agreed
during negotiations, and are explained below (paras 52-59).
52.       Tariffs.  In response to continual urgings, WASA raised tariffs
to their present level in 1978. In accordance with WASA's tariff structure,
which was introduced in FY76, residential consumers are heavily subsidized by
industrial and commercial customers who are being charged about twice to four
times the residential tariff. This practice is reasonable. However, further
improvements in tariff structure are possible. Accordingly, the consultants
to be hired to prepare a third water supply and sewerage project for Dacca
(paragraph 46) will also carry out a comprehensive analysis of water and
sewerage tariffs.
53.       While some improvement in WASA's financial performance is expected
to result from increased operational efficiency. In addition, however, tariff
increases will be required to reach financial viability. To achieve this
goal, the following agreemenits have been reached:



- 16 -
(a) GOB and WASA will set and maintain rates for water supply
and sewerage services at levels which will provide suf-
ficient revenues to:
(i)  cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any,
and interest;
(ii) provide for adequate maintenance and depreciation; and
(iii)  meet repayments on long-term debt in excess of depre-
ciation and any increase needed in working capital
(Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
(b) The water and sewerage tariffs will be reviewed in connection
with the annual budget procedures and the results of such
reviews will be forwarded to IDA for comment (Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement).
(c) A water tariff increase for metered and unmetered connections
-averaging 40% is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Metering and Waste Detection Programs.  Although metering of water
consumption has been introduced and developed during implementation of the
first project (Credit 368-BD), about 75% of residential consumption as well as
the water provided through standpipes is unmetered. With so much consumption
unmetered, losses can only be estimated; and WASA's estimate of 22% of produc-
tion is conservative.
55.       To correct this deficiency, WASA will:
(a) prepare a program to detect and prevent waste in its water
system, WASA will submit this program for IDA's review and
comment by October 31, 1979, and thereafter carry it out in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices (Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement);
(b) maintain task forces to discover and eliminate unauthorized
connections, and monitor the effectiveness of these task
forces (Section 4.05(b) of the Project Agreement); and
(c) install meters on all new connections (about 25,000)
under the proposed project and establish and maintain
a program for installation of meters on existing connections
(about 25,000) (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement).
56.       Billing and Collection.  WASA's billing and collection record for
non-Government customers is unsatisfactory. In the past, WASA collected only
about 65-70% of its billing. However, GOB has made administrative arrange-
ments which have already resulted in improved payments. These arrangements



- 17 -
include payments by Dacca Municipal Corporation for water supplied through
standpipes and deducting water charges from salaries of employees residing
in Government housing for remittal to WASA.
57.        To further improve its billing and collection, WASA will take
satisfactory measures as described in paragraphs 63 and 64 below, by
January 1, l980 to improve its billing procedures and collection performance,
and will report periodically on the progress of such measures (Section 4.05(a)
of the Project Agreement). For non-Government customers these measures will
include:
(a) reorganizing WASA'sE revenue department with the objective
of minimizing the number of persons involved in the prepara-
tion and issuance of consumer bills and identifying the
responsibility for failure to realize collection of the
billed amounts;
(b)  slepping up its program for disconnecting delinquent
accounts; and
(c)  introducing procedures to warn delinquent customers of
imnpending disconnection.
As an indication of the effectiveness of these improvement measures, WASA will
take all steps to ensure that the following minimum targets are realized:
By the end of            Collected Bills as a Percentage
Fiscal Year                    of Bills Sent Out
1980                 70% of Taka value and number of invoices
1981                 75%            "           "'
1982                 80%                       it
1983                 85%            "           "            "
By the end of FY83 at the latest, WASA will review with IDA the total progress
made in improving its billing and collection of receivables from non-Government
customers, and mutually acceptable targets for the period after FY83 will be
agreed among GOB, WASA and IDA which will be designed to lead to the maximum
achievable percentage in WASA's collection of such receivables.
58.       With respect to rec:eivables from Government agencies, GOB will con-
tinue to pay, or cause to be paid, promptly to WASA:
(a)  charges for water supplied through public standpipes by
DM4C at not less than the prevailing domestic rate; and
(b)  charges for all water supplied by WASA to the various
departments and agencies of the Government and its
employees residing in Government-provided housing.
59.       Future Improvement..  As an indication of the success of the above-
mentioned measures as well as GOB's willingness to permit WASA to adjust its



- 18 -
tariffs as and when required, WASA will take all necessary steps to ensure
that the following rate of return targets on non-revalued net fixed assets
in operation are realized:
FY80       3%
FY81       2% 1/
FY82       2% T/
FY83   :   5%
60.       Fixed Asset Revaluation.  In the past WASA has not revalued its
assets. This results in a provision for depreciation that does not reflect
adequately the cost of asset replacement and does not provide an appropriate
basis for judging the adequacy of tariff levels. To rectify the situation
WASA will, in consultation with IDA, develop by FY81 a method of revaluing
its assets and will introduce asset revaluation not later than the start of
FY82.
61.       Borrowing.  WASA's debt/equity ratio is low (39/61 in FY79) and the
debt service coverage is expected to remain within reasonable limits. To
ensure that WASA will continue to borrow on reasonable terms, WASA will not
incur any long-term debt unless its 12-month net revenues out of the 15-month
period preceding the intended borrowing cover at least 1.25 times the maximum
future debt service requirements on all its long-term debt (Section 4.06 of
the Project Agreement). WASA will also refrain from borrowing short-term
funds other than for working capital, in the ordinary course of its business
(Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement).
Audit
62.       WASA's accounts are audited annually by an independent firm
appointed by MLGRD. Due to delays in appointing auditors, WASA has not been
able to issue audited statements within six months of the close of the fiscal
years as required under Credit 368-BD. To assure that in the future auditors
are appointed in a timely manner and that audits are carried out on a con-
tinuing basis, GOB and WASA will appoint an auditing firm acceptable to IDA
at the start of each fiscal year (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement). Appointment of auditors
for FYs79 and 80 is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
Spare Parts
63.       In order to ensure that purchase of spare parts is in line with
requirements, WASA will maintain in a separate fund an amount sufficient to
cover estimated payment for spare parts for the ensueing three-month period
(Section 4.03(b)) of the Project Agreement). GOB has confirmed that it will
promptly provide foreign exchange for this purpose as and when necessary.
1/   Reduction in rate of return due to increase in WASA's assets which, in
the initial stage, do not yield their full benefits.



- 19 -
Procurement
64.       All contracts for equipment, materials and meters will be awarded
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the
Association's guidelines.  Exception will be made for items costing less
than US$15,000 having an aggregate value not exceeding US$350,000, which can
be procured through international or local shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations (Project Agreement Schedule, paragraph A.3). The bulk
of expenditure would be for pipes, mainly asbestos cement and PVC for water
mains. The sewers are mainly in the smaller diameters for which vitrified
clay pipes are ideal, and Bangladesh's small clay pipe industry may be
able to compete successfully. In evaluating bids for equipment and materials,
domestic manufacturers would be given the standard 15% preference on the c.i.f.
price, or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower.
Disbursement
65.       Disbursements under the proposed credit would cover:
(a)  65% of civil works;
(b)  100% of equipment procured overseas, 100% of locally
manufactured equipment (ex-factory), and 50% of equipment
procured locally;
(c)  100% of training; and
(d)  100% of engineering services (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 1).
The Credit is expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1983 (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.04).
Financing
66.       I'he Credit of US$22 million would finance 74% of the total project
cost of US$29.9 million (net of duties and taxes). It would cover all foreign
cost (US$17.3 million) and US$4.7 million of local cost. GOB would finance
US$19.7 million, of which US$11.8 million represent duties and taxes. The
Government contribution net of duties and taxes would be in the form of equity.
GOB would relend to WASA the proceeds of the proposed Credit for a term of 25
years, including 5 years of grace, and at the interest rate of 7% per year.
GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOB and WASA is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). To cover advance payments for
equipment aLnd material needed for the construction of tubewells, retroactive
financing f'or such payments made after March 1, 1979 up to US$250,000 is
allowed (Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 4 of Schedule 1).



- 20 -
Project Approval
67.       Approval of the Project Proforma by GOB's Project Evaluation
Committee (PEC) and the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) are necessary to ensure inclusion of the project in Bangladesh's
Annual Development Program and authorization for incurring expenditures.
Government approval of the Project Proforma ista condition of Credit effec-
tiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
68.       Without the project, per capita supplies of water would drop to about
70 lcd from the present 90 lcd. Supplies would, perforce, become intermittent
throughout the area of supply instead of being generally available throughout
the 24 hours. Areas which have trunk sewers available would be unable to
benefit from them because of the lack of subsidiary sewers. Deteriorating
standards would be reflected in an increase in the risk of disease especially
in relation to diarrheal diseases and skin diseases, where reasonable standards
of personal hygiene are so important.
69.       No economic rate of return can be calculated that would provide an
adequate measure of the benefits to the community of having a sanitary water
supply system and improved sewerage. A proxy economic rate of return was
estimated conservatively assuming that the incremental revenue accruing to
WASA from the project represents the minimum level of benefits that will be
realized. In calculating incremental revenues it was assumed that DMC would
pay for water supplied through public standpipes at domestic rates. Pro-
jections on receipts have been made conservatively having regard to past
experience. Even on these conservative assumptions, the ERR was computed to
be about 5%.
70.       The physical risks involved in the project are, if anything, rather
less than those normally expected with operations of this type, since the work
is less difficult than that carried out under the first project, and is in the
same general area with substantially the same soil conditions. Full Government
support will be required to ensure that the intended improvements to WASA's
finances and general administration will be achieved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the draft Project Agreement between the
Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority and the Association and the recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III and include as conditions of effectiveness: (a) implementation



- 21 -
of a tariff increase averaging 40%, (b) appointent of auditors for FYs 79 and
80, (c) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and WASA, and
(d) approval. of the Project Proforma.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 13, 1979



- 22 -
ANNEX I
T-J
BAMGUNU  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RPERUNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTD AVERAGES
BAIRADIE                                             La
LAND ARMA (TOUIISAND SQ. EN.)                                             - KOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           144.0                                                 SAN        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    101.1                               IDST IUCENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE      INCOME
1960  Lb   1970 Lb ESTIIATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP jd    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 40.0       60.0      90.0           167.4      182.9      432.3
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF ODAL USUIVALZNT)      ..          ..      28.0            65.7      88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YRAU
(MILLIONS)                       53.9       70.8      82.7
UNl-M POPULATION (PERCUT oP TOTAL) 4.8         6.4       9.2            12.8       15.0       24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Dt.                     374.0       492.0    574.0            85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. D(. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0      730.0    818.0           322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                        44.3       46.4      46.2            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 TnS.                       52.5        51.0      51.1            52.9      53.3        52.8
65 YnS. AND ABOVE                 3.2         2.6       2.6             2.9        2.9        3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PENCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7        2.8       2.1 /f          2.2        2.4         2.7
URJU                               ..        6.2       7.4             4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.8       50.3      49.5            45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.2       22.9      28.1            17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION BATE             3.5        3.1        ..             3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLtANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TmUSANDS)      ..       345.6    655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED RNE)    ..          ..       4.7            13.7       14.6        14.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
IMDEX OF MO4 PLODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           106.2      100.0      93.7            95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
UQUIRDEETS)                    89.0       89.0      93.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GUINS PER DAY)         42.6         ..      58.5            49.6       50.0       56.8
OP HIIICE ANIMlAL AND PULSE     9.2         ..       8.0            12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
H:IALTH
LIFP EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7      43.3      45.0            43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         ..    140.0             99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PENCUT 0O
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       45.0      56.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              *-        13.0     22.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..       47.0      61.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PZRCT
OP POPULATION)
TMTAL                              ..        6.0       5.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
IRAN                               ..         ..      40.0            66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0 /b  7600.0/h 11000.0          8830.8   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSIII PENLSON  110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0        8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.0 Lj  8120.0 /i 5200.0          1624.5    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..      183.3       278.4
IUJRAL                             ..         ..        ..              ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..              ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5. 2
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..              ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..         ..        3.0             ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        8.7        10.3



- 23 -
ANNEX I
BANGLAU  - SOCIAL 11ICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                            /
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION Lc  GROUP Id   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTIU ENROLLMiET RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOtAL                 47.0        61.0      73.0            59.1        62.9        75.8
FINALE               26.0        42.0      51.0            38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        19.0      25.0            19.9        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                1.0         8.0      11.0             9.9         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECORDART)  1.0         1.0        ..             1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             *-        49.0      50.0            38.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           ..        26.0      24.0            23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERrIIT)       21.6          ..      23.0            35.6        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       0.4 /           2.2         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIViRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         6.0        ..            14.9        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POEULATION                   ..          ..       5.0             6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              ..         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0    24500.0  26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.5      17.0            21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0      78.0            62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3         3.5        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.6      34.4            35.8        39.8        37.8
MALE                                58.7        55.8      55.3            52.4        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                              11.4        11.8      12.1            15.6        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENrDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4       1.4              1.3        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIWSUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k     16.7 /1                   18.6        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 2tl PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 Lk    42.3  j     ..            42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    6.9 /k      7.9        ..              7.3        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k     19.6 /1     *-             19.3       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     110.0            80.2        88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      90.0            67.2        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED R1LATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS ETER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      29.0            39.8        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEI. (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      61.0             50.3       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      70.0            44.6        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjosted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and 1s not unitorm.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between t959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 197]; and for Most Recent Ettimate. between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Aeia; /d  Low Incomw ($280 or les  per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnoorully low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the 5ass populatimo wovemnt across Ohe borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
grovth late is estimated at 2.8S per annum; aI Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country;  /i Govt. establishuents onlly;  /   1972;  /k  1963-64;  IL  1966-67.
September, 1978



- 24 -
DEFINITION4S OF SOCIAL IEfCAIgS                                                       Page 3
S=:g The adjusted group averqage for each indicator are papualtion-wmlghted geometric meanms, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country io each group. Coverage of countriese among the indicators depends on availability of data and ie not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportrer and indictatra of access to water and excreca dispasal, houaing, income distribution and poverty aer
a,Lple populotion-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extras values.
LAND AREA (thouoaod Oq. kx)                                                               Population par hospital bed - total,_jjrba.l_ -d royal -  curo    total,
Total - Total surf ace area comprising land area, an  inland waters.                       urban, and rural) divided by the:.r respective nuacec of hospital cods
Acri-ulturai - most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public end private general and specialized hospital end rc-
or permoanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitatlon centers.  Sospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie follow,                                                                              at least one physician.  Establiabmants providing principally custodial
cars are net included. Rural hospitels. however, inclode health and sedl-
-NFPEFR CAPITA (101) - COP per capit  estimates at torrent market pricee.                   cal centers not permansently staffed by a physician (boo by a medical as-
calcuiated by acme conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                aistant. nurse, midwife., etc.) which offer Do-patient accofo.datioo  and
1960, 1970, and 197y data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admieslana Per hospital bed - Total number of admissinon to or discharges
iNfERCT CONSLKMPTIONS PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comemrcial energy                   from  hospitals divided by the number of beds..
(coal and lignite, petroleum, netural gas and bydro-, nuclear and gao-
thecal electricity) io kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      WOISING
Aereas s ise of household (persona oar household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a groop of individuals who share living quartesr
To tal oopolation. mid-yea  (i lilona) - As of July 1; if not available,                   cod their "in malIs.  A boardec or lodger may or may noot he included in
uvorogo of two nod-yearestimateso; i9ht, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the bousehold for atatistica1 purpoase.  Statistical deinitions of houx-
Urban population loercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total populs-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Av.azas  number of persons par roes - total.  eban. end coral - Averageum
of deta among countries,                                                                 bet of parenne per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population de..nity                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellin.gs seclude non-permxet structures and
Poto. ho.  - Mfid-ynoo population psr square kilumater (iDO hoctar..)                     unocopied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of Swellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per      k. h. agriculture land - Computed ac above for agricultural land                 Conventionai dwellings with electricity in, lvinig quarters en percentage
only,                                                                                    of total, ora.and ruralI dwellins  reapectively.
FPop-ltioc aR. tructure (percent) - Children (0-if years), working-age
(15-hi yearn), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUICATION
poor popoI.la-o                                                                       AdJusted enrollment ratios
Populution growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound aunnual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and femole enro11l.o.t of all ugee
growth roren of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-6f,                        at the primary level as percectages of reopectively primary uch-ol-ge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    Populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearo but adjuated for
Crude birth rate (per thousad) - Annual live birtbs per thousand of                        different lengths of primary educa.tion; for countrien with universal ed.-
old-yoor population; ten-year arithmetic averags.  ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may enceed 100 psrcent since sone pupilo arc helco or
197 ncd floe-year average ending io 1975 for moat recent estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary edoca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at meest four years of approved primary instruction; pr-
and five-year acerage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions  for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will hear                    .usully of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courese  a,re generally
in her .or-aI oeproductive period if she experfencee present age-                        excluded.
opocific fertility raten; -uaully five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocationel enrollmet  rperent of secondary) - Vocutio...l institutions in-
1970, und 1975.                                                                          clods tehnicl  inutrial, or other programs which operate independently
Ponily planting - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Anna"l number of                         or as de:partments of secondary institutions.
occptoro of birth-control devices under auspices of uationa.l family                  Pupil-teacher ratJoio -primary. and_.secondary - Total studetos enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and seodry leesdivided by numbern of teachers to the trs
racily plaoning - uner. (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         spondig levels..
married ...e. o f child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (Percent) - Literate adults (able to read and unito)o
devices tc all  --rred women in sans age group,                                          a percentage of total adult popolatlon aged 15 yra- andOer
PFOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMIPTION
Indon of food production par capita (19701) - tnden number of pee                       Passenger cars (per thousand Population) - Pacenangr oars  -oprioe motortc
capita annual production of allfoo  c oi ties.                                         tseting lees than eight persons; excludes sahulances, hearses and military
Per capita oupp ly of talories (percent of renuirsments) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy oquivalant of net fond supplies available in country par ..pita                Radinro ivr  (per tho...a.d Popuiation) - Ail types of ro..alvers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lens                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; encludes unIcens..ed
ecyorto, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was, in
quontitien used in food process.ing, and lass.es in distribution.  Re-                 effet; dera for recent years say net be comparble since most cauntrien
quireneeto were estimated by PAD based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensin.S
.oI activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand pnpulationj - TV raeeves Sfor broadcast to genard.
weights,  gc aed tago diotributinne of population, and allowing if per-                  public par thousand population; excldes unlicensd TV receiver  io com--
cent for waste at household level,                                                       tries and icn years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita oupplyI of.orotedin (grrams per day) - Protein content of par                Niewenaper circulation (per thousan.d population) - Shows the average circula-
capita oer supply of fod  e  day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper". defioed as a periodical publi-
above.  Riequil-teme     for all contries established by USDA provide for                catIon devoted primarily to recording geneal. new.  It is roosidered to
o olnino  ailow...ce of 60 grams of total protefn per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least Dour times a week.
of unbmol and pulsa protein, of which 10 grams should he animal protein.              Cinema, annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Tieso otndrdst ar  lowe  that those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admiesiona to drive-in cinevuan and mobile
23 gon  of aimal protein an an overage for the world, proposed hy                        unite..
PAOD ic the Third World Pood Survey.
Per capita protein supply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              DIPIOXNRSI
derived from  aninals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thous.ands) - Economically active persone, including armed
Child (.ag.. 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 fortes and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-h years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are noct comparable.
Famale (percent) - resale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALThi                                                                                  Agriculturs (percent) - Labor force in fsrming, foreetry, hunting and fishing
Life eopectunoy at hrth (pears) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total Labor force.
rcooining ot birth; usua lly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 industry (percent) - Labor forte in mining, construction, mnaufacturing and
-od 1975.                                                                                electricity, water mod gas as percentage of total labor force.
Ilurt morcality rtet (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    participation rate (percent) - tctal, male. aod fml             Total, main, end
one yea  of age per thounand live, birhts.                                                aa   labor force as percentagee of their repective population..
Acc..n to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and tonal -                    These are TLOan  adjusted participation ratea reflectingae-c
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with resonable aco...n to                     otruoctre of the ppoltuic-, ord long tine trend.
oufe water supply(icue  treated outface waters or untreated but                       fconomic dependency ratic - Ratio of population under 15 aod h5 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borsholas, springs,                     the labor force in age group of IS-hi years.
and san ita rywall) sa p-ro-tx5e  of their respective populationa.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INtOKE DISnTRIBUTON
than 200 me ters from a house may be considered as being within rt-                  -Prerentage of private income (bothoin.cash andkind) recei.vred b y richest
-coblea.no  f that hou...  In rural area  reasonable. .....s would                       perucn  richest 20 percent. poorsoc 20 pa-ceot, ad por           0ci  percen
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
opsod a disproportionate pact of the day in fetching the family's
watoro...da. '                                                                       POVETY TARDtT DROUPS
Access to socreta dinposal (Percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US4 oar caoita) -rban and rural -
rura1 - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by extreta                        Absolute poverty income level ina that ineams level below, which a minimal
dioponal 00 porcantages of the ir respective populations.   Ecreta                       sut~trci...xliycdequar  diet plus essen..tial nr-fo-d r-quirom tn   in not
diopou n.  ay include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable,
ttrotenet, of human encret. and waste-water by water-borne, systemo                   Estimated relative Poverty income level (Uf$ per capita) _- urban and rural -
Ir the une of pit privies and nimhiar iostallations.                                     Relative powerty incone level is th.t i-oome level Ie.. than oe-rhlrd
Poooicpr physician - Population divided by number of practiicig                      per capita personal incom  of t"hiencountry.e
phyoftiano qualified from a medical school et university level,                       Estimated population belo  povert  inoeleve   pret  - urban and rural-
Popuutio  pernooninc  erao  - Ppulaion  ividd bynumbr ofPercent of population (urban and rural) wh. ore either "absolute poor" or
practicing cab. and finale graduate nurses, practical nornes, and                         "relative poor" whichever Is greater.
uoiotont nurse..
Econumic and Social late Division
Eoon..mic Analyslo and Projectiorn Department



- 25-
(Amounts in millions ofTU.S    Wfara
Actual                         Estimated          1960-   1965-    1913-             Av.
Av. 1967-69 ~1972/73  ~1974/75   197/7                17/81965                   1970      1978           1967-69 1974/75 1977/78
NATIL ICAL ACCOUNTS~                                                                                             __97_7 97/8      _
In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Eacha.ssg  Rates        ~~-erae Annual Groth Estes                 As Percent of GDY
I,rosi Domestic Product            3,012    5,833    6,514          7,25               7,833             4i       3.3        6.1           98.5   101.8   101.1
hot, from lermo of Trade(--           89         -      -117        -148                 -88                                                1.5    -1.8    -1.1
rcs lcrrertic Income   6,101    5~~~~~~~,833    6,3-97  7,107              i774-5            5.6      2.5       5.8           100.0    10oi0. 0   100 .0
mpc'se (inc]. Nfs)                   879       747       703         506                 791            20.6      6.8       0.7            14.4    11.0    10.2
E~Xports I  (import capacity)    598            369       197          243                315            12.3   -14.6       -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Resouirce GaLp                        281       378      -506          2~63               464.6                                                      7.9    -7
Consumption Expeniditures           5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764               7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2            92.9   100.1    97.1
-  Invcstment        (incl. stocks)    714         394       499          660                700            13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
D,mestic Savings                      433        16        -6          343                22             4.3    10.0        72.0             6.8    -0.1       2.9
National Savings                      416        32        10          378                279             8.7    20.5       56.3             7.1      0.2      3,6
M4ERCHNADISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                               As Percent-of Total
Imports
C'apital goods                       .        100       135         227                 318                       .      22.9               .      16.8    23.5
Intersmediat,e goods 6~r2fuels)    ..         176       386         270                459                        .      219.                     304        41
Thsels and related materials                                                                                             2.                        04      3.
of which:  Petroleum               .         23       155         141                166               .        .      48.5               .     10.0     1.3
Cnumption goods                             428       726                            406                       ..       L               -:.     42.8      3*
Intel Merch. Imports (cilfl  3~~57  727    1,402           865              1,349                               12.2                    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (oswl. fuels)       .        145       119         220                203..                      .        7.0                    40.9    40.8
Thels and related materials
cf which,  Petroleum
'soufarturd god                       .       195       239         240                294               .        ..       8.5              ..    59.1    59.2
1'vtaI MorTh~ Exorts (fob)     48M       3M           5-8     4r60                4r97                                7._9                   000.0   1005.0
Tourism and Border  TradLe
/-rehandise Trade Indices                       Average 1972-73 = LO
Export Price Index                  61       100        133         118                137              .        ..       6.5
io.ptrt Psides Index                52       100       215          189                180              .        ..      12.5
Tbrms of Trade Index               118       100         62          62                 76              ..       ..       5.6
Exports Volume Index               148       100        80          115                107..                      .       1.5
C.ALIFh ADDED BY SECTORAcua Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange RaLtes                                Average Annual Growth Rates          Ar; Percent of Total
Agriculture             ~~~~~~ ~~~3,542    3,403    3,712  4,020            4,318..                      .        4.8             59        59       57
Industry and Mining                420       412       466          582                642              .        ..       9.2              7         7        8
Service                 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~1,050    1,848    2  146 2              264                                   7.4             34        34       35
Total                            5,012    5,663    6,324          7,044              7,605                                6.1            100       100      100
PUELIC PINANCE                                                                                                                               As Percent if<>
(Central Goverument)
Current Peceipto                   317       280       469          563                665..                      .      34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Cu.rrent Expenditures              365       364       419          464                553..                      .      16.8            6.1       6.4      7.1
Budgetary Savilngs                 -48       -84-      530          T99                112                                             -0.8        0.F8     1.4
0t0cr Public Sector                  .         .         .            ..                                 .       .
Pub',lic Sector Investment         421       239       248         516                 514               .        .      10.3,           7 .0'     3 . 8    6'.6
US $ million LI
CR EN  XPENDITU'RE DETAILS                           Actual                  Estimated       DETAIL ON                             At Av. 1977/78 P anLd EP.
As I Total Current Expend.)               1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 196/77         1977/78       PUBLIC SECTOR                        Two-Year Plan   7. of Total
Education                                   ..       1.        W~      12.          1.         TVSTETPORM(1978/79 -1979/80)
Otter Social Services                       .         4.5      3.6      4.2          4.9       Social Sectors                               287         13.2
Agriculture  and                                                                               Agriculture                                  600         27.6
Other Economic Services                    .        5.0    12.5        6.6         7.0        Industry and Mising                          380        17.5
Administratton and Defense                  .        70.4    57.1    61.5           61.2       Power                                        314         14.4
Oither                                      .         4.6    12.3    15.3           13.9       Transport and communications                 387         17.8
Total Current PxTpenditures                         100.0   100. 0   10 0. 0      100'.0       Other                                        206          9.5
_______________________________________________________________________________  Total Expendituresendiures         2,174 7     100.0O.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1960-      1965-        1973-              FINANCING,
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)                1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR                                             ..      T7          12.89                   PatlIc S.ctor Savings                    557         25.6
Import Elasticity                                       .        1.23         1.11                   Program aid counterpart                  838        38.6
Its-ginal Domestin Savings Bate                         .        0. 2 2      0.05                    Foreign Project Aid                      605         27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                           .       0.35         0.05                  Oth2er (incl. dom. borrowing)             174          8.0
Total Finantcing                      2,174        100.0
LABOR PORTE AND                                   Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (19 72 - 73  Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUJT PlER WORKEEBI Millions                           coTta                 19 61 -73          In U.S.Dollars       Percent of AvergE            197   73
1960-/61    1972/73i9 60/61   1972/73  Growth Bate              19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1         20.5      85       -76          2.0                ..          166         ..76
Industry                             1.0          1.8       5         7          5.0                ..          229         ..105
Service                              1.8         3.9      10         15          6.7                ..          484         ..222
Total                               1-8.9        26-.2   1IO00      10           2.(48                          2?         10o0                      -4.
not applicable         - n1 Dr negligible
not available         -  less than half the smallest unit shown
Note: Figures ate son fiscal year basis (JulY I--utage &O).Data prior to 1972/73 pertaia to erstWhile East Pakistan.
/I     Plan targets.



- 26 -
AM=lE I
kIL  P  Pf              Wf*L AUMDA   7 M
7W96/7C        19zym       1Y/9/4 -.7n                LW/                l           -         1      975
S    hR3 B8,XANCE OF PA..TS
tp,ort  (incl. Ns)                            515          369            358           529           581             6.48                       13 7
7J :Portf (incl. NFS)                 -639         -747          1,402          -957        .1,4Z7          _1,779                         9.8
Rimura     B       UlNn 7) 71 -378                                                   _,O'r26                                                     IU 7.4
Interest (net)                I
Oirect L-rb,,ect Incom
Wo&rkers' Rmitt-e             I                             45              7            66             83              93
Cutrten  Diret Dora (n   t
iffivlal Oiaptt1 81esote                                   482            397           229            3M             4C0                        13 6
Puoblic N&9T 17 la
Piublicr ents                                            726            527           273           411            685                         5 2
-N;     fls-25                                                                         -16           -8              -54 ;
Oteber YbL Lace.
Di.butrot.
-8-.-Y-c.
NMt Dl.b-rS,t.
C pitcl Tr s-.cti*  n.. ..i                               -205            334           -44             16            -23
Cheg   8 Mt RAecreec (-- iecceMe)             ..          -20           -196           -80             24              25                                  AOtuS1 icnd pet-ld                    Octisene
Cree. Rzeat-cc. (-nd p.riod)                               ;07            263           293           269             244                           L2_10S      1974/75   1975/76  1976/77    1977/78
P"AbND DEBT StI.                     228      1,366       1.812      2,065        2,556
OiLT         t   & Urautt-l C                               514           368           338            452           IntereSt on Public Debt              -         10          21         25           27
Repay"nts o- public Debt             _          25         78          17          51
u,bl'c  0,LT Loans                                                                                                  Total Fublic Debt S,,ice.                       35         99          42          78
IORD                                                        -             -             -              -          Other Debt Service (ret) 
1SR.                                                      68            150           50            211           Total Debt Service (ret)
Cthcr  le,tilt teccl                                       11            87            84             74
Govecc  t.                                               204            678          200            376        bt-dn  n nErport Ehrning  (9)
suppliers                                                 55             17             2            11
Fi.n -cl Inetit.tioe-                                      -              -             5            13          P'oblic Debt Service                          9.8         22.4        7.9         13.7
BOodo                                                      _                                          -          Tota1 Debt Service
PFblic  LO"     .e.           ..     n                                    - _  _                                 TDScDIre.ct, I-st. Inc
Totl Public  M5L Lo -338                                                 932           3411
A-verge Terrm  of 7nblio Debt
Aetoal Debt  Cet.taUdisa  or J-e 30. 197E                              In.t.    % Prior Tear DO&D                    2.0         1 5         1.4         1.3
51'L   D71"                                         D_bw   pil c nt                                                   Amort  as 9 Frior Ye_r. DO                    5.0          5.7        0.9          2.5
W.rld  ock.
IDA                                                     554                         21 7                          IBRD Debt Out. 9 Dibureed
Other 'altiloteral                                        64                         2.5                                a. t Public Debt OlD              -       4.0          3.0        2.7          2.2
Ooverncerte                                            1 746                        68 4                            "   e % Public Debt service           -          -         1.6        7.5          4.4
Roec1lec                                                  11                         4.3
Finactil 1oetitutione                                    26                         1.0                         IDA Debt Oot. & Disbarsed
Bonds                                                                                                              "  c  i Publie Debt O&              7.1      18.7        21.0        22.7        21.7
Pnblic Debts n.e.i                                         -                           -                                "   *     Pnblic Debt Service     -       2.3          2.0        7.5         4.9
Tat 71 Pblic N9T Debt                                   r_ 10.0
Othr 14LT Debt,
Shert-twm Debt (disb. o.,)
wet applicable                                                        e  Staff estixte
wOt *availbhe                                                          -  nil   or gligible
but *F i3.de ctntl7                                                  --  le. tb n half the
hut looSaded in tetal                                                     aflleet uuit sboer
N-m.aCt- 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                      and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                           Un-
Number  Year   Borrower             Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                   54.9    329.1         -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                   25.0       2.5
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                       13.0       1.0
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0       1.9
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.3        .3
367    1973   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                         7.0        .1
368    1973   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                  13.2
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.0       4.3
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
'No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0       5.6
409    1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                         4.0         .1
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                 7.5       5.1
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.7       1.1
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                   20.0      13.1
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                         33.0       7.2
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                  15.0      11.7
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                          27.0      23.7



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0      14.9
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.0     10.5
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.5      6.0
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.0     14.5
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.0     14.4
676    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program V                          75.0      2.8
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.0     16.0
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.0     19.9
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.0      9.9
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.0      4.4
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                         75.0     20.4
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                       21.0     19.4
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.0     25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.0      7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.0      6.0
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.0     19.0 /a
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.0     62.1
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.0     10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                       6.0      6.0 /a
Total,                                                      54.9  1,023.3    365.9
of which has been repaid                                   0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                            0       365.9    365.9
/a   Not effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficuLt start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by late 1979, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Tele-
communications and Cyclone SheLters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily.
A request for an extension of ithe Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expecited to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Projeczt; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development for 2400 wells started in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit
for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed. A request
is currently under consideration for an extension of the closing date to permit
the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels in order to increase the
effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome of this review, the Closing
Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In. November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehen,sive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
Mhe Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed uno is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and traLining, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. ImpLementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or farm
equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724      Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing Date:  April 30, 1981
*The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of non-extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also
requested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactori].y and physical p-rogress of the project is not expected to be
effected by t:his delay.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not y et effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1'975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
however, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about 32 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for adclitional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. A contract with a second firm for provision of
assistance during the operations phase was signed in May 1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$23.5 million from the credit, for 96 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$6.0 million and QAR had been approved for an additional US$8.4
million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date:  February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were US$72.2 million and QAR
had been approved for an additional US$1.4 million. The cretdits Closing Date
has been extended by three months to enable GOB to process reimbursements
from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of April 30, 1979 disbursements were US$43.3 million and QAR
had been approved for an additional US$23.6 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
1980. The auditorium, gymnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced.  Civil Works
for The Teclnnical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule are
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers. (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1]980
Tlne project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction  packages except: the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen the
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 91) medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design lJnit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of (disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned during June 1979, completing the project four years behind
schedule.  The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to
June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974;, Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been ac-hieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
However a new ordinance covering the T&T Board has recently been issued and
preparation of revised rules and regulations for the Board is underway. A
request for extension of the Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds were almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project resulted in the release of about US$1.0 million of addi-
tional funds for commitment. These funds have now been committed for
additional subprojects.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
About US$2.1 million has been committed for three technical
assistance subprojects.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
SECOND DACCA WAIER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  N/A 1/
(b) Agency which prepared project: Dacca WASA
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:  October 1978
(d) First IDA mission to review project: October 1978
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 9, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 11, 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  WASA's revenues are required to be sufficient to cover
operation and maintenance, interest and depreciation or
debt payment service, whichever is greater (paragraph 63(i));
(b) WASA will review its tariff and budget proposals annually
wiLth IDA (paragraph 63(ii));
(c)  WASA will implement improved billing and collection pro-
cedures and report periodically on progress (paragraph 63(iii));
(d) GOB will ensure DMC's prompt payment of water provided
tlarough public standpipes (paragraph 63(iv));
1/   The components included in the project were identified in the Master
Plan prepared by consultants several years ago.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
(e)  WASA will maintain task forces to eliminate illegal
connections, leaks and wastage (paragraph 63(v));
(f)  WASA will either enforce sewer connections for premises
within 100 feet of a sewer line, or charge for such
connections regardless of whether or not a premise is
actually connected (paragraph 63(vi));
(g)  WASA will establish a fund for spare parts and GOB
will provide foreign exchange for this purpose as
necessary (paragraph 63(vii));
(h)  Conditions of effectiveness (paragraph 70) would be:
(i) implementation of a tariff increase averaging 40%;
(ii) appointment of auditors for FYs 79 and 80;
(iii) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement on
behalf of GOB and WASA;
(iv) the approval of the Project Proforma by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council.



IBRD 14205
ic U
KURMITOLA SA   .
0uJ~~ KALYNU GRAN|-gl0,}W
2                                                                                          AN         ES
di~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                                 ,       / ,0       f4       . :
S. WIRPUR-
IBRAHIMPJR    ~ oir~ 
KALLYAN PUR    AGARGAON                                                                                                      A
< ,/S---fo!-                                                   0                                                  7p   of'  d'2enrge/-#
3
Th,. nrap her be.n prepsred by the World B-nks stff erclur,oey for rte onS,ec
|MPURA            f the rerdes of the reort to wh,nh t s attached he d..ent,tt,.ns u-ed and the
1MERADIA                n     dth  a t t f    e           r
06~~~6
O'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
BANGLADESH                                w tt X AR
CillY OF DACCA                                 + X  
Second Water Supply andSdewetrage Project                                           \>
(\Nater System)/
Proposed project areas                                        \     
Firsi project area boundary                                         \    ,      \
Existing:\                                                                   \       \H
Water mains
C)    Tule wells
ZS    Tanks
A     Million gallon tanks
Roads
-.------+Railways
Rivers
\\ X~~ATUtLLA)
0                  2        3        4         5        6
Kilometers






IBRD 14206
(81H  N                     ,MAKKt f9
r   X  /             -             --                t                             - <e ::-  c X l s  - -  *ouw :Xs~~~14r AIL
<'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    I ''.',',
NN
ANI
tC /t BARID~N                                  DSRAe
4I, 2I                                                              400         600
Sf~~~~~ O- 'At!K/-IA                                                             I                                             B7satrttptt
~~)t  /  Wt    ~~   t ; r ~~~ / /e,                                                                              90                  
4 <  t   fOHAfVtMApPUR            -      I  - *-t    g.e  /                        h 5~4  Tk, map has been prepared hr the World dank s staff. eclnslsely for the cs,s,en,ence 
I                     ,                             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f the. reder of the report ts hth it s attached The desn-ett use-d -nd the
h_sdare sh-ow on th,e mP or n IPlY, on the pr, tof the World Bank and ats
affinaes nor., jy = dgmet on the legal stats f any terty ry an- ed -rement or -
acetac  f s-h ho-dec-a
4'7/ *               + ~ . ',DHANI46NQ  I |       \ .......... TEJO   N*
2'    1
S  BAZAR         -
DEMRA
4'       M *  lUGDAPAR-
BANGLADESH                                        <          . \r5G   AA|
CITY OF DACCA                                                    *.3  \GANDAR
Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Sewerage)
Proposed project areas
First project area boundary                                                                                                                      'I
Existing:
-. .    Sewers and pumping mains
t      Sewage pumping stations
Roads
Cs            \i. ~~~Pisgi Sewoge
-i--------Railways                                                                                                               Treatrrent Plant
Czz---   Rivers
Effiuert Cukfall)
FATuLA
O         1          2        3          4         5         6
Kilometers



