CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 941 BD
Project Agreement
(Second Dacca Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Dated June 29, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 941 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVE-
LOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and DACCA
WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called WASA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that WASA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WASA, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to WASA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS WASA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WASA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, financial and publio utilities practices, and shall


﻿- 2 -
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WASA in carrying out the
feasibility study referred to in Part E of th2 Project, WASA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, and shall forward by December 31,
1980, to the Association for comments the completed study and its
recommendations and conclusions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) WASA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by WASA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WASA
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) WASA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) WASA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant


﻿-3-
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between WASA and the
Association, WASA shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, WASA and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) WASA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of WASA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. WASA shall duty perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, WASA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) WASA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) WASA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by WASA of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WASA
Section 3.01. WASA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the


﻿Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. WASA shall prepare a program to detect and
prevent waste in its water system and shall submit such program to
the Association for review and comment by October 31, 1979, and
shall, thereafter, carry out such program in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices.
Section 3.03. (a) WASA shall at all times conduct its busi-
ness in accordance with sound public utilities practices under
competent management assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
(b) WASA shall, prior to any major reorganization within
WASA, make available to the Association all relevant information
in respect of such reorganization, and shall afford the Associa-
tion a reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon, giving
due consideration to such views of the Association.
(c) Without limitation on the foregoing, WASA shall appoint,
by December 31, 1979, a training officer who shall, inter alia,
prepare proposals for the establishment of a training program for
WASA staff.
Section 3.04. WASA shall install meters on all new connec-
tions under the Project and shall establish and maintain a program
for installing meters on existing connections.
Section 3.05. WASA shall carry out a program, satisfactory
to the Association, of overseas fellowships under Part C of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WASA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) WASA shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿-5-
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of WASA and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing paragraph (a),
WASA shall employ such independent auditors at the start of each
fiscal year.
Section 4.03. (a) WASA shall at all times operate, maintain,
renew and repair its plants, equipment and machinery in accordance
with sound engineering practices.
(b) WASA shall establish a separate fund for spare parts
and shall maintain in such fund an amount sufficient to cover
the payments estimated to be made for spare parts for the ensuing
three month period.
Section 4.04. WASA shall set and maintain rates for water
supply and sewerage services which will provide sufficient
revenues:
(a) to cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any,
and interest and to provide for adequate maintenance and depre-
ciation;
(b) to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness to the
extent that such repayments exceed the provisions for deprecia-
tion; and
(c) to meet any increase needed in working capital.
Section 4.05. WASA shall carry out a program to improve
its financial performance, which program shall include, inter
alia, the following:
(a) taking measures, satisfactory to the Association, by
January 1, 1980, to improve its billing procedures and collection
performance, and reporting periodically on the progress of such
measures;


﻿-6-
(b) maintaining task forces to discover and eliminate
unauthorized connections, and monitoring the effectiveness of
these task forces; and
(c) enforcing connections to sewers, or charging for such
connection regardless of whether or not a household is actually
connected, for properties or households within 100 feet of a sewer
line.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WASA shall not incur any long-term indebtedness unless
its net revenues for any twelve consecutive months out of the
fifteen-month period last preceding the date of such incurrence
shall not be less than 1.25 times the maximum debt service
requirements on all its long-term indebtedness (including the debt
to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year of WASA.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred and shall include the assumption or
guarantee of such debt;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing
for such debt;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources adjusted to take account of rates in effect at
the time of incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which such revenues
related, less operating and maintenance expenses (including
provision for taxes, if any) but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on long-term indebtedness;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and other charges on
debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which
such other currency is obtainable by WASA, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if


﻿-7-
such other currency is not so obtaintable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WASA shall not iucur short-term debt except for working
capital purposes in the ordinary course of its business. For
the purposes of this Section, the term "short-term debt" shall
mean any debt maturing by its terms not more than one year from
the date on which it is incurred.
Section 4.08. WASA shall not undertake any functions other
than water supply and sewerage without prior consultation with the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WASA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WASA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 8 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WASA:
Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority
156/157 Motijheel Commercial Area
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
WASADAC
Dacca
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of WASA may be taken or executed by
the Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman
shall designate in writing, and WASA shall furnish to the Associ-
ation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
DACCA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
By Is! Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3, hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Items costing less than $15,000 equivalent may be purchased
through international or local shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations; provided that the aggregate amount of
items so purchased shall not exceed $350,000 equivalent.
4.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped, wherever feasible,
in order to encourage international competitive bidding.
5.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, WASA shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. WASA shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 11 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to WASA of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of WASA and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 12 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest-, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and services esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, WASA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, WASA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform WASA and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, WASA shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WASA
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, WASA shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform WASA and state the reasons
for its determination.


