Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14378-1R
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 5. 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



Currency Equivalents
(At Appraisal - January 1995)
Currencv Unit  =      Riel )
US$1.00               R 2,600
R 1,000               US$ 0.40
Weights and Measures
km             Kilometer (0.6214 miles)
kV     =       Kilovolt (1.000 volts)
kVA    =       Kilovolt-Ampere
MV    =        Megavolt-Ampere (1,000 kVA)
MVAr =         Megavolt-Ampere reactive
kWh            Kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hour)
GWh   =        Gigawatt-hour (1,000,000 kilowatt-hour)
MW    =        Megawatt (1,000 kilowatt)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB            =      Asian Development Bank
CAS            =      Country Assistance Strategy
CIF                   Cost Insurance Freight
EDC            =      Electricite' du Cambodge
ERP            =      Emergency Rehabilitation Project
FAO            =      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDP            =      Gross Domestic Product
ICB            =      International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
IPP            =      Independent Power Producer
JICA           =      Japan International Cooperation Agency
LPG            =      Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LV             =      Low voltage
MEF            =      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIME           =      Ministrv of Mines, Industry and Energy
MOC            =      Ministry of Commerce
MOP            =      Ministry of Planning
MV             =      Medium voltage
NCB            =      National Competitive Bidding
PCB            =      Poly Chlorinated Biphenols
PHRD           =      Policy and Human Resources Development fund
PMU            =      Project Management Unit
PPA            =      Power Purchase Agreement
ROW            =      Right of Way
SOE            =      Statements of Expenditures
UNDP           =      United Nations Development Programme
UNTAC          =      United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
UJNV           =      United Nations Volunteer
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agencies:    Electricite du Cambodge (EDC)
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MNiIvE)
Beneficiaries:            Electricite du Cambodge (EDC)
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIE)
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                   SDR 25.8 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with maturity of 40 years.
Commitment Fee:           0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:          The Credit, less an amount equal to US$6 million equivalent,
will be on-lent to EDC within three months after it has been
established as an autonomous juridical entity, at a variable
interest rate equal to LIBOR plus one-half of one percent, with
repayment over 17 years, including a grace period of five years,
and foreign exchange risk being borne by EDC.
Financing Plan:           See para. 3.21.
Economic Rate of Return:  21.5%
Map:                     IBRD No. 26880
Project ID Number:        KH-PA4032






CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION
Contents
Page No.
I. The Energy Sector                                .......... 1
A.   Overview ................................1
B.   The Power Sector ................................3
C.   Power Sector Strategy ................................5
D.   Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector ................................6
E.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ................................6
II. The Beneficiary                               8.........8
A.   Background ...........................8
B.   Organization and Management ............................9
C.   Financial Management ............................11
D.  Capital Requirements ............................. 12
E.   Commercialization and Corporatization ............................        13
III. The Project ......... 14
A.   Objectives ......................                                         14
B.   Description ......................                                        14
C.   Cost Estimates ...................... 17
D.   Project Implementation ...................... 17
E.   Environmental and Social Issues ...................... 19
F.   Financing Plan ......................                                     20
G.   Procurement ......................                                        21
H.   Disbursements ......................                                      22
IV. Finance .......................                                                  23
A.   Past Financial Performance ....................... 23
B.   Financial Outlook .......................                                 25
C.   Tariffs ....................... 26
D.   Financial Projections .................. 27
V.   Project Justification .................. 30
A.   Economic Analysis             .................. 30
B.  Project Risks ..................                                           31
VI.  Agreements and Recommendation ........................ 32
A.   Agreements   .         ....................... 32
B. Recommendation ........... 33



ANNEXES
1      Power System  Indicators and Installations .............................                 .................. 34
2       Power Demand Forecast and Expansion Requirements ........................................ 37
3       Power Sector Reform  ............................................... 48
4       EDC's Organizational Chart ...............................................                                49
5       Project Design and Implementation Arrangements ............................................... 50
6       Project Implementation Schedule ...............................................                            57
7       Su munary of Project Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements ........................   59
8       Disbursement Schedule ...............................................                                      61
9       Bank Supervision Plan ...............................................                                      62
10      Key Project Performance Indicators ...............................................                        63
1 1     Environmental Retrofit and Safety Program ...............................................                  64
12 Land Acquisition and Compensation.70
13      Technical Assistance ...............................................                                      78
14      EDC  Finances ...............................................                                             95
15      Economic Justification ............................................... 105
16      List of Documents in Project File ............................................... 110
Map  ..111
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cambodia from January 23
to February 3, 1995. The mission was comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Enrique Crousillat (Mission Leader,
EAIIN), John Irving (Power Engineer, EAIIN), Sumila Gulyani (Resettlement Specialist, ASTHR) Emilia
Battaglini (Economist, IENPD) and P.T. Venugopal (Financial Analyst, consultant). Other important
contributions to project preparation were made by Lars Lund (Resettlement Specialist, ASTHR), Yaacov Ziv
(Environment Specialist, ASTEN) and Peter Cordukes (Financial Analyst, IENPD). The report was reviewed
by Messrs. Hernan Garcia (IENPD) and Robert Taylor (EA21E) as peer reviewers. Mines. Hamideh Keyhani,
Theresa Gamulo and Bobbie Brown assisted in the processing of the report. It was cleared by Messrs.
Callisto E. Madavo, Director, EAI, and J. Shivakumar, Chief, EAIIN.



I. The Energy Sector
A. Overview
1.1  The Kingdom of Cambodia, with an area of 180,000 km2 and a population of
around 10 million, is one of the poorest countries in the world: per capita gross domestic
product (GDP) is US$200. The largest city is Phnom Penh, the capital, with a population
of about 800,000. After a long period of war and political disruption, the Government has
made impressive progress on the macroeconomic front; high inflation has been brought
under control, the exchange rate stabilized and growth has been relatively strong -- official
data show real GDP growth of 4.1% in 1993 and 4.0% in 1994. This improvement is
associated also with the introduction of market reforms and the political security provided
by a United Nations intervention that allowed the election and establishment of a coalition
government, business activities to increase and foreign investment to begin flowing into
the country. Nevertheless, progress is threatened by a breakdown of basic infrastructure,
including the power supply, which was virtually destroyed in past years.
1.2   All the commercial energy used in Cambodia is imported. Based on customs
collections, imports estimated for 1993 were 75,000 tons (t) of fuel oil, 126,000 t of
diesel, and 88,000 t of petrol, for a total of 289,000 t. Kerosene and liquefied petroleum
gas (LPG) are also imported, although in smaller quantities. About 40% of fuel goes to
industry and transport, 35% to electricity generation and 25% to agriculture.  It is
estimated that 75% of petroleum products are consumed in Phnom Penh and the
surrounding areas.
1.3   Until now, no fossil fuels have been developed and little is known about the extent
of resources. However, experts generally agree the country could have a significant
amount of natural gas and a modest amount of oil. There is considerable interest in oil
prospecting and three exploration contracts are currently under implementation through
production-sharing agreements: the Government is a joint venture partner with the license
operator. Licenses are issued by the Department of Geology of the Ministry of Industry,
Mines and Energy (MIME). Oil is imported through the ports of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville. Diesel and fuel oil are imported by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) for
use by Electricite' du Cambodge (EDC) and other generating facilities.  Some
municipalities also purchase diesel from the private sector to generate electricity. Private
oil companies import fuel for the transport sector. Oil products for both EDC and private
companies are delivered to the MOC storage facility in Phnom Penh.
1.4   Rural energy is produced largely from wood and charcoal (approximately 88% of
the population lives in rural areas). FAO and UNTAC estimate that wood is harvested at
the rate of 6 to 8 million cubic meters per year and that 90% is used for fuel. Rice husks
are also used as an energy source.
1.5   The organizational framework of the energy sector was changed when the current
administration took office. The MIME was established in 1993 with the following



-2-
responsibilities: (a) planning, formulating policy, regulating and auditing the energy sector;
(b) generating and distributing electricity; and (c) coordinating energy projects (including
donor activities). EDC is the main government entity and the largest organization in the
sector. However, the private sector is substantially involved in supplying various energy
forms. Energy sector participants and ownership are summarized in Table I. 1.
Table 1.1 Energy Sector Participants
Phnom Penh         Provincial Towns          Rural
Electricity          EDC (generation and  Nominally EDC but   Some villages have
distribution) and    actually under local   own generators and
private sector       management and       lead acid batteries to
wholesalers.         control.             supply domestic
lighting.
Petroleum            Gas stations and     Gas stations and     Small retailers in
retailers served by    retailers served by  villages.
private oil          private oil
companies.           companies. Local
Government           electricity suppliers
company for power   purchase fuel from
station use.         private companies.
Charcoal             Individual wood      Individual wood      Only local charcoal
cutters, charcoal    cutters, charcoal    burner.
burners adjacent to    burners adjacent to
forest, small       forest, small
distributors.        distributors.
Wood                 Wood cut by          Wood cut by          Local cutting.
villagers, transported  villagers, transported
to wholesaler in    to town, small
Phnom Penh, small   distributors.
distributors.
Energy Sector Policy
1.6   The Government's ultimate objective is to rebuild the country, sustain its
development, and realize full economic potential. To achieve this, its energy policy aims
at: (a) providing an adequate supply of low-cost energy throughout the country; (b)
ensuring a reliable, secure electricity supply at prices that facilitate investment; (c)
encouraging exploration and environmentally and socially acceptable development of



-3-
energy resources to supply needs of all sectors; and (d) encouraging the efficient use of
energy and minimizing environmental effects resulting from energy supply and use. While
this policy addresses medium- to long-term issues, short-term Government objectives
focus on restoring an adequate energy supply as soon as possible.
B. The Power Sector
1.7   Electricity supply, which was previously a function of the municipal councils in
Phnom Penh and provincial cities, is now the responsibility of EDC, a nationwide utility
reporting to, and operating under the supervision of, the MIME.
1.8   Electricity is generated through small isolated thermal systems that are mostly
diesel fired. By far the largest is in Phnom Penh, where consumption accounts for more
than 85% of the national total. At the national level, electricity use was approximately 26
kWh per person per year in 1994, one of the lowest levels in Asia (average consumption
among countries of the region is 815 kWh per capita, while in Thailand and Vietnam
consumption per capita reaches 980 kWh and 110 kWh, respectively). In Phnom Penh,
only 25 MW (of the total 71 MW installed capacity, including several very old plants) are
available for normal operations and do not meet the city's demand, which is estimated at
55-60 MW. Thus, if Cambodia is to sustain moderate economic growth, Phnom Penh's
power shortage needs to be resolved. To this end, part of the city's generating plants are
being refurbished, and various new generating sets are being installed, with the support of
several donors. However, this additional capacity of about 40 MW will be insufficient to
meet future demand and provide a reliable supply. Thus, the Government decided to
expand generation through direct private participation. A power purchase agreement for a
35 MW diesel plant was signed recently and generation additions beyond 1998 are being
assessed. Sector indicators and further data on installations are given in Annex 1.
1.9   Approximately 60% of Phnom Penh's distribution network is underground. The
system is old and needs to be renovated. Although the older 4.4 kV sections are being
repaired, newer parts (15 kV which account for about 70% of the total) are also in poor
shape and just minimally maintained. Therefore, the network is expected to suffer from
interruptions, failures and high losses (currently around 35-40%) until it is rehabilitated.
1.10  At present, 148 wholesalers distribute low voltage (LV) power, obtaining a
metered supply from EDC at the distribution substations and selling to approximately
43,000 individual customers. Although this arrangement relieves EDC from the usually
cumbersome retail operation, it is also a main cause of high technical losses and financial
problems (para. 2.11). This arrangement needs to be reviewed.
1.11  Power outages are so acute that economic activities and essential services (such as
water treatment and pumping, telecommunications, etc.) are severely curtailed. As a
result, many consumers have installed their own generating units (estimated to be above
100 MW) at high investment and operating costs. Obsolete equipment accounts for only



-4-
part of the sector problems. EDC's financial situation constitutes another constraint.
Although electricity tariffs are relatively high -- 245 and 350 Riel/kWh (9.8 and 14
US.cents/kWh) for wholesale and retail customers respectively -- steep production costs,
high losses and a poor collections record have caused EDC to run a large cash deficit in
past years, covered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).
1.12  The sector's maladies go beyond its poor technical and financial performance.
EDC is a very weak utility that lacks skilled management and technical staff, and is at the
same time over-staffed. A large part of the problem stems from past policies which treated
the power sector as a public service instead of a commercial operation. Consequently, the
Government's role was not limited to making policy but included direct intervention in
daily operations. This situation has yet to improve. The sector's new organization
mandates that EDC will report directly to the MIME; thus apparently lacking the
autonomy it needs to operate the utility efficiently. Also, it gives the MIME multiple roles
-- as policy maker, regulator and operator -- that create a conflict of functions. The
Government is aware of these problems and is committed to introducing reforms that will
commercialize the sector and attract direct private investment (paras. 2.3 and 2.18).
1.13  The World Bank is executing a UNDP-funded technical assistance (TA) project
for the power sector. It mainly offers support for management and training of EDC and
MIME staff, including also initial efforts in identifying a viable organizational and
regulatory framework, a medium-term investments study and formulating a human
resources master plan. The effort has already made modest but significant progress
toward improving EDC's management and considerably reducing its drain on public
finances.
Demand Forecast
1.14 If Cambodia is to achieve a moderate economic growth of 7.5% per annum, power
demand would rise at a faster rate, particularly in Phnom Penh, where commercial and
domestic consumption is expected to grow rapidly when suppressed demand picks up. A
desegregated forecast of expected sales in Phnom Penh was prepared by EDC consultants
from the present to the year 2009. Forecasts for the initial years in all sectors were based
on energy survey data and, in the absence of reliable statistical information, on data from
other Asian cities. The forecast takes into account estimated high levels of suppressed
demand and real increases in GDP.
1.15  Forecasts indicate that residential consumption will continue to drive load growth,
accounting for approximately 80%  of total demand.  A rapid increase in domestic
customers is expected to occur in 1996 and 1997, as the system is rehabilitated and
demand is met. Commercial load is also expected to grow rapidly over the next seven
years as commercial development accelerates. While demand from the manufacturing
sector may be insignificant initially, it is also expected to grow quickly in the latter years of
the forecast. Growth in the government sector is expected to be modest both in terms of



-5 -
customer numbers and average consumption.  Energy and capacity forecasts are
summarized below.
Table 1.2 Phnom Penh Power Demand Forecast - 1994/2009 (in GWh)
Year         Residential    Commercial  Manufacturing  Government  Total
1994         78.6          7.3          2.0           7.7         95.6
2000         315.9         36.4         12.3          10.0        374.6
2009         586.1         65.5         79.7          11.8        743.1
Growth Rate  I             _            _
1994/2000    26.1          30.7         35.4          4.4         25.6
2000/2009    7.1           6.7          23.0          1.9         7.9
1.16  Early high growth rates are explained by the large amount of suppressed demand,
currently estimated at 40% of gross generation. However, these will drastically decline
after 1996 as new generating capacity is made available.  Peak demand, including
suppressed demand, is expected to increase from 55-60 MW at present (of which only
about 25 MW is met) to around 70 MW in 1998, 100 MW in 2001 and 160 MW by the
year 2009. Detailed results of the power demand forecast are presented in Annex 2.
C. Power Sector Strategy
1.17  The Government has issued an energy sector position paper that proposes to enact
a new power sector law favorable to private participation and to establish EDC as an
autonomous corporation possessing a separate juridical personality.  IDA and other
donors are supporting the Government efforts in implementing a power sector strategy
aimed at:
Re-establishing an adequate supply of electricity nationwide, as soon as possible;
Strengthening the sector's managerial and implementation capability, to ensure the
effectiveness and sustainability of current and future operations;
Creating the appropriate environment needed to promote a sustained, efficient and
environmentally sound growth and operation of the sector, open to competition
and private sector participation.
To this end, it will address short-term and medium-to-long-term issues associated with
investments, institutions and reforms. The Government is aware of the need to proceed
in all areas, since it would not be productive to install new facilities unless measures are
taken to improve EDC's financial and technical performance. The following measures are
being launched with assistance of the donors community and the private sector:



-6-
Supporting investments.. Phnom Penh's generation capacity will be expanded and
the distribution system rehabilitated with assistance from the ADB, Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and IDA and direct private investment;
the rehabilitation will be supported by the proposed project. In addition, ADB is
supporting investments for power generation in the provincial towns of Siem Reap
and Sihanoukville. The Government is also seeking private investment for similar
efforts in other provincial towns.
Strengthening institutions.  The present management support system for EDC
(provided through UNDP technical assistance) will be continued and its billing and
revenue collection system improved. EDC will also receive donor support (from
ADB and IDA) to establish project implementation units, including an
environmental unit, and staff training.
:Reforming the sector. IDA is supporting MlME's preparation of an Electricity
Act and statutes to establish EDC as a separate juridical entity. Further IDA
support will include TA for defining a suitable structure for the sector and the
utility, and setting up an appropriate regulatory framework, including the
establishment of a regulatory authority for the sector (para. 3.8).
1.18  In the short-term, these efforts will mean revising the sector's institutions and
financial relationship with the Government (with respect to autonomy and subsidies) as
well as altering arrangements, such as with wholesalers. In the medium-to-long term,
actions in these areas will create the structural and regulatory conditions that will promote
competition and direct private sector involvement. The project includes a TA component
to support the strategy (paras. 3.7-3.8).
D. Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.19  There have been no previous direct IDA operations in the power sector in
Cambodia. However, the ongoing IDA credit for the Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP) contains an infrastructure component, including an addition of 10 MW generating
capacity in Phnom Penh. Two main lessons have been learned from this ongoing operation.
First: public entities' implementation capacity is extremely weak; and Second: local ownership
is an essential condition to guarantee an effective implementation of projects. These lessons
have been incorporated in the preparation of the project. Accordingly, a TA component will be
provided to strengthen EDC's implementation capability, and the project has been designed in
close coordination with EDC staff, including an early preparation of bidding documents.



-7-
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.20  The policies and programs pursued by the Government and supported by the
project are substantially in compliance with the Bank's policy for the power sector. The
project fits well with the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 14465-
KH) presented to the Board on June 8, 1995. As discussed in the CAS, the Bank's
support to Cambodia for the next year will focus on: (a) assisting the Government to
strengthen its capacity in setting clear priorities and implementing development programs;
(b) carrying out further analytical work; and (c) supporting critical measures that will have
a significant and quick impact within each sector. The project is consistent with all of the
above mentioned approaches.
1.21   Public participation in the power sector is justified because of the critical situation
of power supply and the widespread impact of the sector on economic development and
public welfare. Cambodia's investment requirements in power are large (above US$170
million in the medium-term, para. 2.17). While IDA can only finance a fraction of these
needs, its participation in supporting urgent distribution investments will help fill a critical
gap and at the same time will provide enough confidence to help attract funds for
generation from public and private sources. The Government has stated clearly its interest
in reforming the power sector, attracting private participation, and strengthening its
institutions. Through its involvement in financing EDC's program, IDA will be able to
play a key role in helping the Government in the initial stage of reform, and over time help
the Government effectively address issues relating to: (a) power sector regulation,
restructuring and commercialization; (b) institutional strengthening; (c) investment
planning and resource pricing; (d) environmental discipline; and (e) establishment of a land
acquisition and compensation policy.



II. The Beneficiary
A. Background
2.1   The beneficiary of the proposed credit will be Electricite du Cambodge (EDC), a
public utility responsible for generating, transmitting and distributing electricity
throughout Cambodia. EDC was formed in 1958 when three private companies were
nationalized--Compagnie Franco-Khmire d'Electricit6 (CFKE), Compagnie des Eaux et
Electricite (CEE), and Union d'Electricite d'Indochine (UTNEDI). Its name was later
changed to Electricite de Phnom Penh (EDP) to reflect the company's supply of power
only to that city; recently it was changed back to Electricite du Cambodge, as it was given
nationwide responsibilities. In practice, EDC uses private contractors to plan, construct,
operate and maintain power systems outside Phnom Penh, and provides technical support
to the provincial electricity operations as required.
2.2   EDC is a wholly state-owned utility, operating under the direct responsibility of
the Ministry of Industry Mines and Energy (MIME), supervised by the Secretary of State
for Energy. It is required to coordinate with the MEF on all aspects of operations
concerning financial issues and with the Ministry of Planning (MOP) on the amount of
energy to be generated and fuel requirements. EDC directly supplies 1,658 customers,
broadly categorized as follows:
Table 11.1 EDC's Customers
Customer              Number             % of Total          % of Total
Category                                Consumption           Revenue
Wholesalers                 148                  50                  42
Government                  556                  35                  41
Embassies                    66                   4                   6
Direct customers            888                  11                  11
Total                      1,658                100                 100
a' Wholesalers directly serve about 40,000 residential and commercial customers.
2.3   The Government is committed to reforming the power sector so as to achieve
more efficient operations and development. To this end, an Electricity Act is being
prepared that is expected to be presented to the National Assembly this year for enactment
by June 30, 1996. The law is expected to establish clear principles for operating the
power industry and defining the functions and powers of each entity. It will create an
autonomous regulatory body, define the role of an independent public utility and a broad
system of licenses for power services, and will also establish principles for setting
electricity tariffs. It is designed to encourage private sector involvement and contains
provisions for independent power producers (IPP) and, for the long term, a competitive



-9 -
end use power market with transmission lines designated as common carriers. As a result,
EDC's functions and responsibilities will have to be revised and adapted to the future
sector structure. Annex 3 presents, within a time frame, a set of ongoing and agreed
actions for sector reform, including legal measures and complementary technical support.
B. Organization and Management
Structure
2.4   EDC is managed by a director (appointed by MIME), who reports to the Secretary
of State for Energy. The organization has seven sections (generation and transmission,
distribution, commerce, administration, projects, planning and corporate finance), each
headed by a deputy director (see Annex 4 for an organizational chart). The last three were
recently created to address the utility's project investment needs and are headed by
expatriates employed under a UNDP-funded Bank-executed Technical Assistance Project;
they have been at EDC since July 1993. This project involves the three expatriates and 10
United Nations Volunteer (UNV) specialists who support EDC in technical areas. The
TA project has concentrated on urgent rehabilitation needs of the power system in Phnom
Penh and Sihanoukville, training, investment planning, computerization of billing and
accounting systems, and initial efforts to re-organize EDC. Assistance was also given to
MIIME to introduce energy planning skills and develop and reorganize the sector as a
whole. The TA project is funded through July 1995 by the UNDP and the experts are to
continue for another year, with the support of the Asian Development Bank and the
project. This TA has already accomplished modest but significant progress in: (a)
improving EDC's management decision process and planning for the distribution system;
(b) adjusting tariffs; and (c) improving EDC's collections--by 20%. Thus, its drain on
public finances has been considerably reduced.
Personnel and Training
2.5   The devastation caused by 20 years of military conflict and political strife, together
with the effects of a centrally planned policy which treated the power sector as a public
service instead of a commercial operation, have had a negative impact on EDC's staff and
management capability.  EDC's staff amounts to 1,177 employees.  Generally, its
managers and other staff are weak. Many senior staff have only a limited appreciation of
management principles in a market economy. Moreover, most staff are inadequately
trained and poorly motivated because of extremely low salaries; this will continue until
realistic salaries are paid. Responsibilities are poorly defined, and authority and reporting
processes are not clearly established. Consequently, staff often do not understand the
extent of their responsibilities and do not know to whom to report. There is also evidence
that EDC is over-staffed. It has 34 customers to each employee, a ratio much lower than
in neighboring countries (in Thailand, PEA's ratio is 265 customers per employee).
Further, it does not have the power to hire the professionals it needs or fire redundant or



- 10-
inefficient employees; instead, it can only redistribute the existing work force within the
utility.
2.6   In order to improve EDC staff performance and develop its manpower potential,
the ongoing UNDP/World Bank TA project (para. 1.13) has been providing training in:
(a) management principles; (b) technical skills, for engineers and technicians; (c) English,
for senior and middle management; and (d) study tours to visit foreign power utilities.
The TA project also includes a technology transfer program whereby intemational experts
provide on-the-job training to local counterpart staff.
2.7   To date, responsibility for staff training within EDC has not been assigned.
However, a Human Resources Development Master Plan (para. 1.13) has been prepared
and is being reviewed. Its key objective will be to develop a comprehensive program and
schedule to train staff in the power sector. To this end, the Master Plan proposes 22
actions to: (a) expose the senior managers, middle-level managers and supervisors to
modem utility strategies and practices; (b) train staff in technical activities; (c) address key
business objectives such as collecting revenues and managing contractors; (d) provide a
sound recruitment strategy across all areas; and (e) develop training needs analyses,
performance appraisals and career development. The project will fund a limited part of
the Master Plan elements. It is expected the effort will be complemented by other donor
support.
Operational Performance
2.8   The intemal turmoil of the past two decades left the infrastructure severely
deteriorated, a problem aggravated over recent years by a lack of investment. Also, a lack
of spare parts and a shortage of skilled technicians has resulted in widespread operational
problems. Maintenance is inadequate and work is often substandard, although the quality
is improving. Technical losses have been estimated at 15% of electricity generated, which
is high, given the urban load base. Overall losses, including non-technical losses but
excluding station use, are estimated to be in the order of 33%. For all the above reasons,
EDC is able to meet only less than half of the estimated peak demand, and interruptions to
supply are frequent due to a shortage of capacity, and a lack of maintenance and spare
parts. Altogether, EDC's poor technical, commercial and financial performance is a cause
of Government concern. This has caused it to propose a Performance Plan between
MIME and EDC as a way of monitoring EDC's performance and introducing adequate
efficiency incentives. Consequently, a two-year plan was agreed on August 9, 1995 a
summary of which is incorporated in the key performance indicators in Annex 10. This
Plan sets forth the principal technical, commercial and financial indicators and targets to be
achieved by EDC, as well as the basic measures to be taken by MIME to assist EDC in
realizing that achievement. It was agreed at negotiation that the Government shall take all
action necessary to ensure the satisfactory implementation of the Performance Plan.
2.9   Consequently, growth in sales has been limited. Sales for the first eight months of
1994 totaled only 52.3 GWh, while annual sales were expected to reach 82.2 GWh. Also,



only about 67% of the units produced were billed. A new electricity pricing structure was
introduced early in 1994, with different rates for electricity wholesalers and direct
customers. This adjustment was aimed at reducing the wholesalers' margin while also
keeping end-use tariffs at previous levels. Subject to adjustments for exchange rate
fluctuations, the new tariff should permit EDC to almost break even, based on the
production forecast.
Wholesaling
2.10  EDC sells some fifty per cent of its energy to 148 wholesalers who are responsible
for retail billing and collections relating to about 40,000 consumers. While this effectively
puts the retailing function in the private sector, EDC has been unable to control
wholesalers effectively. In addition to failing to maintain fully satisfactory collections from
them, EDC is not able to enforce its authorized retail rate of Riels 350/kWh, it being
reported that some wholesalers charge rates as high as Riels 600/kWh. EDC operates
other parts of the LV network, supplying larger customers and those on the outskirts of
the city.  It directly supplies only 1,658 end-use customers, including government
agencies, embassies and various residential consumers who, however, account for 50% of
total consumption.
2.11   EDC  is also ineffective in exercising control over new  connections and
maintenance of the low voltage distribution system. The consequent overloading caused
by the wholesalers, inefficient installations, and their lack of maintenance are major causes
of the high electrical losses in the system.  The implementation of the distribution
rehabilitation component of the project will entail the dismantling of wholesalers
installations (i.e. great part of their installations would be replaced by a new low voltage
network and consumer connections) and, hence, an opportunity to revise the current
arrangement. As the distribution system is being rehabilitated, and the wholesalers are a
main source of inefficiencies, it was agreed at negotiations that EDC will: (i) redefine the
role of, or phase out, wholesalers prior to the initiation of the low voltage construction
program; and (ii) prepare an action plan for the implementation of these measures not later
than March 31, 1996. The implementation of these measures are included also as part of
the Performance Plan agreed between MIME and EDC (para. 2.8).
C. Financial Management
2.12  EDC operates under the direction and supervision of the MIME, and uses
Government-prescribed  financial accounting  procedures.   However, its financial
management systems and skills are generally inadequate, especially with respect to the
foreseen growth in generation and distribution capacity and the large number of customers
the company is expected to inherit from the wholesalers (as it assumes their functions and
increases gradually its number of direct customers from 1,658 to about 40,000). Until
early 1995, the billing and accounting system was manual, thus slowing the processing of
accounting information. Credit control, while relatively tight, was handicapped by a



- 12-
cumbersome, slow system. To improve the process, a computer system was purchased
under the UNDP Technical Assistance Project and made operational in early 1995. This
new system, however, will require further upgrading to enable EDC to handle a larger
number of customers.
2.13  Collecting money owed from Government agencies has proved very difficult. The
MEF has made a preliminary agreement with EDC that it will pay the agencies' overdue
bills. In addition, agreement has been reached with the Government that it will prepare,
and agree with EDC, on an action plan to collect outstanding accounts receivable by
February 28, 1996 (para 4.7).
2.14  Recent years were marked by rapid inflation and a corresponding devaluation of
the Riel. Although fuel costs rose sharply, EDC did not significantly adjust its tariffs until
early 1994. This situation was aggravated by its poor collection record and the large
margin taken by wholesalers who purchased energy at 9.8 UScents/kWh and sold it to end
users for 14-22 UScents/kWh. Consequently, large and increasing losses were incurred in
five of the last six years and the Government covered the resulting shortfall. EDC's past
financial performance and projections are discussed in Chapter IV.
2.15  Considerable improvements in technology, policies and practices are needed to
obtain prompt and rational accounting results (that are consistent with generally accepted
accounting practices). Thus, an upgraded computerized billing and accounting system
must be adopted as soon as possible, along with a customer management system. The
project will provide support in continuing ongoing efforts to implement such systems
(para. 3.7).
2.16  EDC has no adequate internal audit procedures and is subject to only sporadic
external audits carried out by the MEF. As EDC is commercialized, it will need to create
formal internal and external audit procedures. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
the Government will cause EDC to maintain its accounts in accordance with appropriate
internationally accepted accounting principles and would submit to IDA the audited
accounts and the auditor's reports within six months of the end of each financial year.
D. Capital Requirements
2.17  Significant capital investment is needed to meet the high level of suppressed
demand, estimated at approximately 112 GWh per annum. This is about equal to EDC's
total estimated production for 1994. Investment requirements to re-establish a normal
power service are estimated at US$170 million (World Bank report No. 12667). The
Government is aware of the difficulty in mobilizing such amount. Therefore, in January
1994, MIME asked for expressions of interest for private sector investment in the
electricity sector. The response was encouraging, and a Memorandum of Understanding
was signed for new generation. A generation license was granted and a Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA) was signed with a private consortium in September 1994 to install and



- 13 -
operate 35 MW of new capacity at the C2 power station. After this successful experience,
the Government moved to prequalify suitable contractors for IPPs for eight provincial
towns. However, it is likely that private investors will not respond with much enthusiasm
until a clear legal and regulatory framework, along with adequate guarantees, are in place.
As these conditions are met, more than half of the sector's capital requirements would be
covered by private sources (para. 4.17).
E. Commercialization and Corporatization
2.18   The Government is committed to establishing EDC as a separate juridical entity.
This would be a first step toward its commercialization and subsequent corporatization.
Accordingly, EDC would be established as a separate utility to develop, generate, transmit
and distribute electric power throughout the country according to its service
responsibilities as defined by law, statutes and regulations.  It would operate as a
commercial business, organize its production and operations according to market demand,
pay taxes, and set its personnel and salary policies. IDA is currently supporting the
Government in achieving this target through the provision of technical assistance for the
preparation of EDC's articles of association and related constituent documents.
According to the Government's plans, EDC would be expected to prepare, build, own,
finance, lease and operate power generation and transmission facilities, as well as contract
with third parties for, among other things, the purchase of power, and licenses for
distribution and transmission.  In addition, short-term  Government plans consider
expanding generation through the direct participation of independent power producers
(IPPs), with EDC keeping direct responsibility for distribution and retail sales. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that failure of any of the following events to take place by its
respective specified date will entitle IDA to suspend Credit disbursements: that EDC will
be established as an autonomous entity possessing a separate juridical personality with
attributes, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA not later than December 31,
1995; that the Electricity Act would be enacted not later than June 30, 1996, in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA; and that an autonomous regulatory body for the power
sector would be established not later than September 30, 1996.
2.19. EDC would have a Board of Directors which would be responsible for managing
and operating the company through its Director General. The Board would be composed
of members of the Government and the business community to reflect balanced expertise;
it shall include at least one engineer, one accountant and one lawyer. Implementing the
program will require external TA. Accordingly, the project will support the Government
by providing consultancy services to define the best structure for the utility and the sector,
as well as to prepare a plan to commercialize EDC and formulate a regulatory framework
consistent with the proposed structure (para 3.7 and Annex 3). Further support will be
provided by other donors through the services of a power utilities management expert
who will advise the Board. Agreement was reached at negotiations that a duly qualified
advisor to the EDC's Board will be recruited according to terms of reference agreed with
IDA. Proposed terms of reference for these services are given in Annex 13.



III. The Project
A. Objectives
3.1   The main objectives of the project, which has been designed to be consistent with
the Government's power sector strategy (para. 1.17), are to support the rehabilitation
urgently needed for Phnom Penh's distribution system as well as the Government's initial
efforts to strengthen sector institutions.  Also, the project would help create an
environment in which the power sector can be developed and operated efficiently,
including the involvement of the private sector. To this end, the project will finance
priority investments and provide much needed TA. The project will be implemented along
with other investment programs supported by the ADB and bilateral agencies from Japan
and France, among others.
B. Description
3.2   The project would include the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation of Phnom Penh's distribution system comprising:
(i)    Construction of about 23 km of 1 15 kV transmission circuits around
the perimeter of Phnom Penh to connect three new primary
11 5/22kV substations;
(ii)   Construction of about 100 cct-km  of 22 kV underground and
overhead lines, 300 km of low voltage lines, 40 MVA of distribution
transformers, 20 MVAr power factor correction equipment and about
40,000 consumer connections;
(iii)  Provision of support facilities, including tools and equipment,
communications for system operations, storage areas and logistics
controls; and
(iv)  Improvement of environmental and safety conditions at existing
power plants.
(b) TA comprising:
(i)    Within EDC  -- procurement and engineering, importation of
management services, strengthening of commercial operations,
setting up an environmental unit, implementing the land acquisition
and compensation plan and training EDC staff, and



- 15 -
(ii)   Within MIME -- defining and implementing a new sector structure
and regulatory framework; and training staff in energy planning.
Rehabilitation of Phnom Penh Distribution System
3.3   An in-depth feasibility study undertaken by EDC's consultants financed by the
Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD), determined that a new 115 kV
transmission network is needed to connect the five power stations in Phnom Penh and to
provide three points of supply to serve the city's 22 kV networks. The system was
designed to allow for future upgrading in order to accommodate the expected electricity
growth up to 2005 when demand is expected to reach about 130 MW. The 115/22 kV
substations were designed to provide space to connect with a future 230 kV connection to
Vietnam in the east and Sihanoukville in the south. The substations under the project
would use standardized designs, consistent with practices utilized by neighboring
countries. The 115 kV lines under the project would use 25m concrete or wood poles,
constructed along roads, thereby minimizing right of way (ROW) requirements.
3.4   The distribution system would be constructed to operate at 22 kV, although parts
could operate at 15 kV until the older equipment is phased out of service. Rehabilitation
of the medium voltage (MV) system within the city will be completed with underground
cable (as is now done) so as to minimize visual impact; outer urban areas will be
reticulated with 22 kV overhead systems on 12m concrete poles. LV networks will be
constructed with overhead bundled conductor cable systems, as was done under two
recent pilot projects funded by other sources. Service connections will use concentric
screened cables to reduce the incidence of illegal connections. New meters will be
installed in prominent locations on all consumers' premises employing adequate
mechanisms to make them tamper-free. Installation of the LV and consumer service
systems will be carried out in conjunction with EDC's renegotiation of commercial
arrangements with wholesalers responsible for providing domestic and commercial
electricity services.  Details on project design and implementation arrangements are
presented in Annex 5.
3.5   The project will also provide for operations and maintenance equipment including
communications equipment, vehicles, construction plant and erection tools. It will also
expand EDC's computer facilities for: (a) project management, monitoring and control of
implementation; (b) billing systems, to cover up to 80,000 consumers; (c) planning tools;
and (d) other office equipment as required for commercial and engineering applications.
Equipment Storage and Logistics Control
3.6   The project will support the preparation of a suitable site for receiving and storing
equipment near the C3 power station site. It will contain outdoor storage facilities with
handling equipment, and indoor facilities for management offices; meter testing facilities;
and offices for construction and maintenance management.



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
3.7   The TA component was designed to address the most pressing needs of the power
sector. It aims to: (a) strengthen EDC's technical, managerial and implementation
capabilities; and (b) support the Government's reforms to create a more autonomous,
financially viable power sector open to the private sector. The following consultancy
services will be secured to support EDC:
(a)   Engineering assistance to support EDC in the implementation of the
project. This service will focus on strengthening the Project Management
Unit (PMU) established within EDC to execute this and other projects to
rehabilitate and expand its power networks. Engineering consultants will
be required to: (i) help EDC prepare bidding documents for procuring
materials and equipment; (ii) assist and train its staff in evaluating bids and
managing contracts for each project component; (iii) arrange for the
training of EDC staff in the areas of transmission and distribution
construction management, supervision, and operations and maintenance;
and (iv) provide technical advisory services as necessary to complete the
project and operate the plant. Taken together, the services are designed to
ensure that all aspects of project implementation are coordinated;
(b)   Management and computer experts, to strengthen commercial operations
and computerize the accounting, billing and collection services to establish
a sound basis for revenue; and
(c)   Experts to assess and define the scope for establishing an environmental
unit within EDC and implement the project's land acquisition and
compensation plan.
3.8   The TA component to support MIME will include: (a) consultant services to help
identify the most suitable regulatory framework for the power sector (that can provide
incentives for an efficient, reliable supply of electricity, attract foreign capital and promote
efficient operations);  (b) the services of a regulatory advisor to support the
implementation and initial operations of the proposed regulatory agency (the Electricity
Authority of Cambodia); (c) the services of an energy advisor to the Minister, to develop
energy policy and implement MIAME's work program; and (d) a training program for
MIME staff on energy economics, resource management, energy planning, and statistics
gathering. Annex 13 presents a more detailed description of the TA package, including
terms of reference and resources to be allocated. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that consultancy services will be employed according to terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA.



- 17 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.9      The total financing required for the project (including  capitalized  interest during
construction) is estimated at US$46 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$37 million equivalent (Details of the cost estimate are presented in
Annex 7). Costs are based on December 1994 price levels. Physical contingencies have
been assumed at about 10% of the base cost, considering that the project may change its
scope as the detailed design progresses. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of
escalation factors of 5% for local cost components and 2.8% for the foreign ones,
following Bank guidelines. Table III. 1 summarizes the cost estimates for the project.
Table HI.1 Cost Estimates
Component                             Riels Million                  USS Million             Foreign
as
Local     For.      Total    Local       For.     Total       % of
__________________________________  ______                    _____  _______        Totals
A. 115 kV Transmission System
115 kV Transmission Lines                       604      3421      4025      0.24       1.37      1.61           85
115/22 kV Substations                          2425     18225    20650       0.97       7.29      8.26           88
B. Distribution System Rehabilitation
22 kV Rehabilitation                           4502     13505     18006       1.80      5.40      7.20           75
LV Construction and Consumer Services          7500    22501      30002       3.00      9.00     12.00           75
C. Operational and Construction Support Facilities
Operational and Commercial Equipment             75      5125      5208       0.03      2.05      2.08           99
Stores and Logistics                            103      1150      1253       0.04      0.46      0.50           92
Environmental Enhancement and Safety             83       735       818       0.03      0.29      0.33           88
D. Technical Assistance                             749      6741      7490       0.30      2.70      3.00           90
E. Land Acquisition and Compensation                675         0       675       0.27      0.00      0.27            0
F. EDC Administration                               400         0       400       0.16      0.00      0.16            0
Total Base Cost                                 17122    71403    88526        6.85     28.56     35.41           81
Physical Contingencies                       1711     7141       8852      0.68      2.86      3.54
Price Contingencies                         3265      7238      10505      1.31      2.90      4.20
Total Project with Contingencies               22098    85785   107883         8.84     34.31     43.15           79
Interest During Construction                 218      6076      6293       0.09      2.43      2.52              l
Total Project Financing                        22316    91860   114177         8.93     36.74       45.67         80
D. Project Implementation
3.10    The Project will be  implemented  in  accordance  with  a Project Implementation
Plan. With the exception of the TA component for MIME, EDC will be responsible for
implementing the project. It will obtain adequate consultant services for management,
design and procurement activities, as well as for supervising construction. A project team,
headed by the manager of the Project Management Unit (PMU), has been formed within
EDC to coordinate and direct the project. The 115 kV transmission lines will be
constructed and the 115/22 kV substations installed through single-responsibility turnkey



- 18-
contracts. Because the transmission lines will be pole-mounted and routed along roads,
ROW requirements will be minimal. EDC has already begun to secure land for
substations. As the amount of land needed is relatively limited, the company has
flexibility in its choice of location and can be sensitive to local conditions and future
expansion requirements. Thus, the implementation schedule is unlikely to be affected by
land acquisition and compensation obstacles (see Annex 6 for the implementation
schedule).
3.11   The PMU will establish teams to supervise the construction of the MV and LV
distribution works. Planning for the MV rehabilitation program will be linked to the
commissioning of the 35 MW private plant at the C2 site; this will ensure that power can
be evacuated without incurring contractual penalties. Planning for the LV construction
will be coordinated with EDC's plans to phase out or change the role of the wholesalers.
The work will be coordinated by the PMU project manager and several project engineers
who have experience with construction under bilaterally-financed projects.  Detailed
surveys, the planning of routes, the selection of equipment and cost estimates will be made
with criteria established by the staff and consultants.
Monitoring and Reporting
3.12  Procedures for monitoring the physical works and financial reports have been
agreed upon with EDC, which will furnish quarterly progress reports including updated
charts based on the model used for the project schedule (Annex 6). These procedures are
reflected in EDC's Project Implementation Plan. During the final year of implementation,
IDA will draft Parts I and 3 of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), no later
than six months after the project is completed. EDC will review them and prepare Part 2
(the Borrower's perspective) within the next three months.
Supervision Plan
3.13   The project will be supervised according to the plan presented in Annex 9. The
main areas of focus will be: (a) EDC's investment plan and tariffs, to ensure these are
consistent with macroeconomic changes; (b) compliance with financial covenants to assure
EDC's financial health as it conducts a large investment program; (c) technical supervision
and consulting studies, (d) compensation for the transmission line; and (e) reforms in the
power sector. Bank missions will also help EDC with institutional development activities
and provide advice on environmental and social issues when needed. Supervision of the
project will require expertise in power engineering, management techniques, economics
and financial analysis--all of which is available within the Bank. It is expected that two
missions a year for three years will be needed, for a total of 35 staff weeks. Key project
performance indicators that would be used for supervision are given in Annex 10.



- 19-
E. Environmental and Social Issues
3.14   The project's overall environmental impact is expected to be positive, since an old,
hazardous distribution system will be replaced, energy losses will be reduced and,
consequently, a large number of inefficient generating units will cease to operate. In
addition, the project will upgrade the existing power stations in Phnom Penh, improving
their environmental and safety conditions. Except for compensation associated with the
construction of the 115 kV transmission line and related substations, no other
remuneration is envisaged, since all other project components involve existing power
plants and distribution systems. Accordingly, the project has been classified in the B
category. The preparation of an Environmental Action Plan for Cambodia is considered in
IDA's work program for FY97.
3.15   EDC consultants assessed the project's environmental impact, focusing on: (a)
route selection and effects of the proposed transmission line and associated substations;
and (b) clean-up and safety at existing power stations. Social and environmental issues
were key factors for the selection of the transmission line route and location of
substations. Overhead 115 kV pole-mounted lines routed along roads will minimize ROW
requirements. The layout design of the substations would be fairly flexible, and emphasis
will be placed on aesthetic aspects in their setting and design. Line and substation designs
will follow internationally accepted safety practices that have a proven record in the urban
environment. Further, an environmental audit of power stations was carried out and the
most essential clean-up and safety measures were included in the project (Annex 11).
3.16   The eventual replacement and disposal of obsolete equipment (such as PCB-filled
transformers) and environmentally hazardous materials were also addressed. EDC carried
out a survey on existing transformers and concluded that no PCBs are in service on the
network.
Land Acquisition and Compensation
3.17   The following components will involve land acquisition: two (out of three) grid
substations and the 23 km transmission line. One substation site will need about 8,000
square meters of land and will affect nine households; the other will require 1,350 square
meters of land for an access road and will affect four households. The ROW for the
transmission line will affect 19 households, and the project as a whole will affect a total of
32 families, of which 15 houses will need to be relocated.
3.18   Minimizing the scale of land acquisition was one of the criteria in selecting the
transmission route and location of sub-stations. The transmission line, which was initially
set to cross the city, was re-routed and located further away so as to affect fewer
settlements. Its pole mounted design also helped keep adverse impacts to a minimum.
Further, given the medium voltage, the line will require a ROW of only about six meters,
as the cross arm width is about three meters.



- 20 -
3.19  A detailed survey of the proposed route was completed and base drawings (scale
1:3000) indicate the structures and property affected by the line. In addition to the
technical survey, authorities made a baseline survey of the affected population. Further,
EDC has obtained the Government's clearance on a policy framework and plan for land
acquisition and compensation. Agreement was reached during negotiations on a timetable
for the Government's implementation of the Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan and
on the regular monitoring of the plan's implementation (summary of the Plan and agreed
timetable are presented in Annex 12). EDC's compliance with such timetable is also part
of the Performance Plan agreed between MIME and EDC (para. 2.8).
Implementation and Institutional Strengthening.
3.20  Given that local agencies and EDC  have little experience dealing with
environmental and land acquisition issues, the project will provide TA for consultants to
help EDC (a) define the scope of an environmental unit (to be set up within EDC); (b)
implement the compensation plan, including the preparation of a Due Process Manual; and
(c) further develop EDC's policy framework, procedures, and implementation
arrangements for land acquisition and compensation (Annex 13).
F. Financing Plan
3.21  Table III.2 below summarizes the expected financing sources for the project. IDA
financing would account for about 88% of project costs, covering 100% of the foreign
component (excluding interest during construction), and about 64% of the local
component. The IDA credit of US$40 million equivalent would be at the standard terms
for a 40-year term including a 1 0-year grace period. The Government would retain about
US$0.8 million towards the TA for MIME. The balance would be fully passed on to EDC
in two parts, the equivalent of US$6 million as equity contribution, and the remaining
about US$33.2 million as a subsidiary loan. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
the Government will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with EDC, satisfactory to
IDA, within three months after EDC is established as a separate juridical entity (para
2.18). It was also agreed that onlending will be in US$ at a variable interest rate equal to
LIBOR plus one half of one percent, with repayment over 17 years, including a grace
period of five years.
Table m1.2 Project Financing
II                   I       ~~~~~~~~~~~~US$ Mfillion  
Source              Local  gForein I Total
IlDA Credit                      5.69    34.31 I 40.00
EDC Self Financing/Governnent Equity  3.24   2.43    567



- 21 -
G. Procurement
3.22  With the exception of the provision made for local contractors and stores (para.
3.23), all contracts financed by the credit for works and goods would be awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) according to IDA procurement
guidelines. Annex 5 gives a summary of the procurement arrangements.
3.23  The credit will finance up to 100% of foreign and 70% of local components of the
supply and installation contracts for the transmission line and substations awarded on ICB
basis, which will be evaluated allowing domestic preference for contractors.  The
distribution component involving laying of underground cables and overhead main lines
estimated at $5.9 million will also be subjected to ICB. Construction of storage facilities
will be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA with 100% of foreign and 70% of local components funded by the
Credit. An amount of $500,000 has been allocated to encourage the development of local
contractors for which special procedures will be followed. Local contractors who have
the aptitude and capacity for the distribution components will be invited to register for
training following advertisement in local newspaper. On completion of the training
program conducted by EDC, a list of qualified contractors (minimum five) will be
prepared for participating in the bidding process, following competitive bidding
procedures. Bidding documents for such procedures will be reviewed by IDA prior to
release to ensure that terms and conditions are equitable and fair. IDA will finance 70% of
the costs for this pilot project.
3.24  In the evaluation of bids for goods following ICB procedures, a domestic price
margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic
manufacturers. Prior IDA review of bid documents and approval of contract awards will
be mandatory for contracts for goods and works expected to cost the equivalent of
US$0.5 million or more. This will cover about 90 % of total contract value. Consulting
services financed by IDA will be awarded according to Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants. Contracts exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals
will require IDA's prior review. Table III.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements
for the project.



- 22 -
Table m.3 Procurement Arrangements
Project Component                     Procurement Method                   Total Cost
ICB            NCB             Other
Works
Transmission & Substations       12.0                                            12.0
(11.5)                                         (11.5)
Distribution Construction         5.9                              0.5 (a)        6.4
(4.0)                            (0.4)         (4.4)
Buildings and site works                          0.5                             0.5
(0.4)                         (0.4)
Goods                           20.2                                             20.2
(20.2)                                         (20.2)
Consultants                                                        3.5 (b)        3.5
(3.5)        (3.5)
Total                           38.1              0.'5             4.0           42.5 (c)
(35.7)           (0.4)            (3.9)        (40.0)
(a) refers to pilot program for local contractors.             In brackets: IDA funding
(b) refers to engagement of consulting services.
(c) excludes EDC's administration and compensation expenses.
H. Disbursements
3.25   Disbursements for the distribution components are expected to begin in early 1996.
The overall implementation period will be about four years from negotiations. The IDA
credit would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment and materials as well as related installation works; (b) 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items and related installation works; (c)
70% of local expenditures for materials, equipment and related installation works; (d) 70%
of construction of distribution works by local contractors (to cover the cost, net of taxes,
for leased equipment and importation of foreign supervision); and (e) 100% of total
expenditures for consulting services.  Full documentation would be required for all
contracts for goods and works valued at US$0.5 million equivalent. Disbursements for
goods and works valued at less than US$0.5 million would be made on the basis of
itemized Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The SOE limit for consultant's services
would be US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. The documentation for
SOE supported expenditures would be retained and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions. A Special Account would be established at the National Bank of
Cambodia to facilitate these payments. This account would be maintained in US dollars,
with a limit of US$3 million equivalent.
3.26   Annex 8 gives the disbursement schedule for the  IDA credit.  The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and the closing date for the Credit would be
December 31, 1999.



IV. Finance
A. Past Financial Performance
4.1    At present, EDC's financial operations are an extension of the Government's.
From year to year, the Government provides budgetary support to EDC in order to cover
its losses and new investment needs. Essentially, EDC's activities in Phnom Penh are not
large enough for the economy of scale that is needed. The prevailing power wholesale
tariffs, at around 10 US cents/kWh, on the average, do compare with the tariffs at the
higher end of the region. The coming years would see fast growth in power consumption.
As EDC is established as a separate commercial entity, the objective will be to attain
financial independence, and at the same time endeavor not to raise tariffs in real terms,
although rationalize them in due time and, ultimately, reduce them. To allow EDC to
begin its new commercial life without past financial burdens to the extent possible, the
balance sheet has been reconstituted, subject to the approval of the Government,
eliminating "inefficient" balances. This is further explained below. As EDC's business
expands and sales revenues climb, EDC could quickly become self-sufficient in respect of
cash operating costs and, soon thereafter, achieve full financial viability as measured by
rates of return and other financial indicators.
4.2   Financial results of EDC's trading, restricted to its operations in Phnom Penh, for
the period 1989-1994 are summarized in Table IV. 1. Detailed statements are given in
Annex 14.
Table IV.1 Summary Trading Results 1989-1994 (M Riels)
Item             1989     1990      1991     1992       1993       1994
Total Revenue               436      1 181    5 957    17 289     16 891    24 277
Total Operating Expenses    686      1 485    6 293    15 598     29 830    34 789
Operating Profit           -250      -304      -336    1691      -12 939    -10 512
Net Profit (- loss)         -288     -361      -419    1 768     -12 878    -10 512
4.3    EDC's operating losses have risen from Riels 288 million (about $1 million) in
FY1989 to Riels 10 000 million ($3.8 million) in FY1994, the first year in which
depreciation was calculated on revalued fixed assets in service. Only in FY1992 was a
profit made. Fixed assets in service at the end of FY1993 were valued at Riels 49,300
million ($19 million), thus a return of eight percent would have required an operating
profit of Riels 3,900 million. Therefore, the shortfall for FY 1994 was about Riels 14,000
million ($5.4 million). EDC's increasing losses during the last four years are explained by:
(a) a decline in real tariffs, which remained unchanged throughout great part of that
period; and (b) an accelerated deterioration of its power generation capability caused by
maintenance problems and old equipment. The slight improvement of 1994 was due to a
rise in wholesale tariffs.



- 24 -
4.4   Estimated balance sheets for FY 1993 and 1994 are presented in Annex 14 and
summarized in Table IV.2. The fixed assets are at valuation in 1994 prices with additions
at cost.'
Table IV.2: Summary Balance Sheets 1993-1994 (M Riels)
Years Ending 31 December          1993          1994
Fixed Assets in Service                49,257       43,911
Total Current Assets                    9,970        18,927
Total Assets                           59,227       62,838
Total Owner's Funds                    56,987       50,376
Total Current Liabilities              2 ,239        12,462
Total Equity & Liabilities             59,227       62,838
Valuation of Equity
4.5    The value of the owner's interest in EDC is determined largely by the value of fixed
assets less any long term debt raised to finance them. In EDC's case, the book value of
assets in 1993 was seriously below depreciated replacement cost and there was no long
term debt. Fixed assets were revalued as at December 31, 1993 by EDC consultants,
using a depreciation replacement cost approach. After allowing for the rundown nature of
many system assets, the total value is put at almost Riels 50,000 million (approximately
US$19 million).
4.6  The other main determinant of assets value is receivables and inventory. Whilst it is
intended to incorporate EDC as a joint stock company with limited liability, EDC's
accounts have been reconstituted as at the end of 1993. This included writing off about
one third of recorded values, including a large but not known proportion of debtors'
balances dated back to 1983, and capitalizing an amount of Riels 12,000 million recorded
as payable to the Government. The current valuation of fixed assets has been brought to
account, and the net result to value the owner's interest at that date, at almost
Riels 57 000 million ($ 22 million). The whole of this is treated as equity. Given the
precarious state of EDC's finances, there is no point in attempting to assess an appropriate
mix of debt and equity. More properly, the aim should be to get EDC's profitability to the
stage where EDC pays taxes and a dividend to Government and thereby makes funds
available for reinvestment in other development projects. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that, not later than June 30, 1996, the Government will record approval of
EDC's reconstituted and duly audited balance sheet as at December 31, 1995.
The balance sheet for FY 1993 is a reconstruction based on available information and does not include old, doubtful and obscure
arnounts.



- 25 -
Accounts Receivable
4.7   EDC sells almost 50 percent of its energy to wholesalers and bills them about 42
percent of its revenue. Collection performance is poor and worsening; between 31
December 1993 and 31 December 1994 collections were only 60 % of sales revenue.
Accordingly, unpaid accounts are estimated to have increased by Riels 9,200 million
(US$3.5 million) to Riels 14,700 million (US$5.7 million), approximately 7.3 months'
revenue. Such position of trade receivables, even after reconstituting the balance sheet of
EDC, is cause for serious concern. Government agencies are the primary debtors,
followed by the Municipality, wholesalers and embassies. This issue was discussed with
the Government. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government will take
all measures necessary to assist EDC to collect the outstanding account receivables, and
that EDC will reduce these to not more than three months of sales revenue by December
31, 1998, and to 2.5 months of sales revenue by December 31, 1999. Also, an agreement
was reached that the Government will prepare, in coordination with EDC, a plan of action
to achieve these results, satisfactory to IDA, not later than February 28, 1996.
B. Financial Outlook
Projected Financial Performance
4.8   Improvements in EDC's financial performance would require the following: (i) the
capacity to meet demand for increased quantities of electrical energy; (ii) improved
generating and distribution efficiencies; and (iii) tariffs to be adjusted to cost escalation.
The capital investment program supported by multilateral and bilateral agencies and a first
contract with an independent power producer will provide the necessary generating
capacity by 1999-2000. The rehabilitation of the Phnom Penh's distribution network will
also allow to reduce EDC's electrical losses from 1994's 24 % to 15 % during the same
time, since the project is in fact a major loss reduction program. This improvement would
be also complemented by a better collection performance made possible through the
implementation of a modern billing and collection system.
4.9   The modernization of EDC's billing and collection system would allow EDC to
take over -- or reach a new type of arrangement for -- wholesale distribution thus enabling
the utility to capture progressively the large wholesale margin (paragraphs 2.11 and 2.12).
Additional costs to be incurred to provide an efficient billing, collection and consumer
accounting and management services should be minimized by redeploying existing staff.
However, even after allowing for increased earnings in this manner, price adjustments will
be necessary for some time and it is important that EDC review its rates regularly and not
less often than annually. Projections of EDC finances indicate that average revenue yields
per kWh sold expressed in dollar equivalent need to increase at not less than the average
rate of international inflation during a period of five years. This would mean that rates
should reflect real increases in oil prices and equipment, as well as variations in the
exchange rate. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government will review



- 26 -
not later than October 1, in each year, EDC's investment program and power tariffs in
consultation with IDA.
Financing Plan
4.10   Table IV.3 summarizes EDC's projected cash flows during the period 1995-2003.
Based on the projected costs and revenues, internally generated funds are expected to
cover about 45 % of total cash application requirements and about 70 % of projected
capital expenditures. Details of the capital funds projected to be received are given in
Annex 14.
Table IV.3: Financing Plan 1995-2003
Item                       M Riels             k$ @
Riels 3300
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources
Operating income + depreciation                  336,598            101,999
Interest earned                                   30,291              9,179
Internally Generated Funds                       366,890            111,179
Grants                                           228,238             69,163
Capital contribution                              54,564             16,534
Long term borrowing                              149,659             45,351
Capital Funds                                    432,461            131,049
Total Funds Available                            799,351            242,227
Application of Funds
Capital Investment                               521,436            158,011
Debt Servicing
Interest expense                                  63,857             19,351
Principal                                         53,986             16,359
Total Debt Service                               117,844             35,710
Tax & Dividend paid                               49,965             15,141
Change in noncash working capital                 12,294              3,726
Change in cash balances                           97,812             29,640
Change in Working Capital                        110,106             33,365
Total Funds Applied                              799,351            242,227
a.    1995-2003 Riels have been converted to dollars at a single representative rate.
C. Tariffs
4.11   EDC's tariff structure includes a single energy rate with no demand charges. The
tariff system contains rates in both Riels and US.Dollars. The Dollar tariff is higher than
the Riel tariff and applies generally to foreign firms and embassies. The average revenue
yield for FY 94 was Riels 292 per kWh (11.4 US.cents). Wholesalers paid Riels 239 for
energy billed in Riels and Riels 449 for energy billed in US. Dollars. EDC billed most of
its retail consumers at rates yielding between Riels 326 and Riels 350, but obtained from
embassies billed in Riels 327, and from those billed in US. Dollars, Riels 546.



- 27 -
4.12 Through FY91 until early FY94 EDC's rates had remained unchanged. During
that period average rates to wholesalers were Riels 119 per kWh and to end consumers
Riels 170 per kWh. Consumers billed in dollars paid a constant value of $0.21 per kWh
over the same period.
4.13  The wholesalers are known to charge retail rates considerably higher than the
authorized retail tariff (para. 2.10).  While this introduces unfair treatment to retail
consumers, it is also an indication that consumers' willingness to pay may be higher than
the retail tariff. While EDC is expected to improve its financial performance as: (i) its
generating capacity is enhanced; (ii) energy losses are reduced; and (iii) collection record
is improved, it does not necessarily follow that retail rates should be reduced as
wholesalers' activities revert to EDC. A carefully designed plan for revising the structure
of tariffs should be prepared before wholesalers' businesses are taken over, or a new
arrangement is made, so that the required revenue will be progressively earned without
granting reductions that may have to be reversed soon afterwards. The plan should reflect
the financing requirements of EDC including the completion of its rehabilitation program
in Phnom Penh and the expansion of its operations throughout the country, while keeping
the long term objective of reducing real tariff levels (see para. 4.17). Given the structure
of the consumer group, composed mainly of a large number of residential and small
commercial consumers, and the relatively weak billing and collection system, it is not
recommended that demand charges be introduced in the short term.
D. Financial Projections
4.14  Revenue projections have been made based on the following: (i) the sales and load
forecast; (ii) new generation, transmission and distribution capacities as they become
progressively available in accordance with the capital investment program; (iii) the
projected costs of supply and distribution; (iv) the progressive capturing of wholesale
margins as the distribution system is rehabilitated; and (v) the effect of projected
international inflation and exchange rates on investment and operating costs. A complete
set of the assumptions used for these projections is given in Annex 14, including
commercial conditions for the onlending agreement between the Government and EDC
(para. 3.21).
4.15   The main determinants of future costs will be: (i) the investment program; (ii) fuel
costs; and (iii) the contract(s) entered into with independent power producers. Given the
Government's policy that future increments of generating capacity are to be built and
financed by independent producers (para 2.10), the projections assume two further power
stations being commissioned before 2003 to provide enough energy and adequate security
of supply at times of peak demand. This results in high fixed costs per kWh delivered by
the new stations in FYs 2002-2003 and a temporary reduction in profitability.



- 28 -
4.16   Including 2.5%  per year international inflation and a similar devaluation of the
Riel, average revenue yields are projected progressively to rise 136 % from Riels 292 in
FY94 to Riels 689 in FY98, including a gradual capturing of the wholesale margin. The
increase in projected dollar equivalents is 60 % by FY 2000. EDC's projected operating
results are given in Annex 14, Table IV.4 presents a summary.
Table IV.4: Summary Financial Projections to 2003
(Rls Billion)
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Energy Sales (GWh)          116.7  159.3  223.8  274.8  327.4  376.1   422.1  461.3  495.2
Average Revenue (Rls/kWh)     364    424   482    531    584    641         656    672    689
Operating Revenues           42.9   68.3  108.9  147.4  193.1  243.3   279.8  313.2  344.4
Operating Expenses           46.5   74.6  119.4  140.3  168.9  210.8  233.9  277.9  321.5
Purchased Power Cost            -   41.6   81.9   87.0  122.3  155.9   172.4  211.8  251.2
Operating Profit             -3.6   -6.3  -10.5      7.0   24.2   32.6   45.9   35.2   22.9
Net Income                    -4.3   -5.4  -13.2   -2.7   10.2   28.9    37.0   30.4   21.4
Current Assets               29.2   58.5  48.1   47.8   44.8   89.2   123.0  139.3  153.1
Total Assets                119.0  296.4  373.7  382.4  432.8  516.2  536.7  535.7  529.4
Current Liabilities          11.2   27.3   25.3   26.0   27.9   33.3    52.5   52.8   51.5
Long-term Debt (net)          0.4   42.9  135.4  146.0  149.7  136.2  122.7  109.2   95.7
Total Equity                107.4  226.2  213.0  210.3  255.1  346.7  361.5  373.7  382.2
Primary Ratios:
Rate of Return on Ave.
Fixed Asset in Service()    -11.6   -4.0  -3.9   -0.6    4.5    7.4       9.6    9.8    7.4
Operating Ratio (%/o)      108.4  109.2  109.6   95.2   87.5   86.6    83.6   88.7   93.4
Debt Service Coverage       14.5    5.1    1.2    2.2    3.4    2.2        3.1    2.9    2.5
(times)
Self-financing Ratio(%)     9.5    11.2   6.4   26.8   59.2   66.4   132.8  279.7  360.2
Current Ratio (times)        2.6    2.1    1.9    1.8    1.6    2.7    2.3    2.6    3.0
Debt as % of Total          0.37   15.94  38.86   40.98  36.98   28.20   25.34  22.61   20.03
Capitalization                           I      I _
4.17   Apart from  several small generation projects under way, EDC's future capital
needs are limited largely to rehabilitation and extension of the transmission and
distributions systems. The need to be able to finance large new borrowings to invest in
generating capacity has therefore been removed as a result of the Government's policy
decision to contract with IPPs (para 2.17). This condition, together with the adjustments
of tariffs along real costs increases, would result in the projected ability of EDC to pay
income tax beginning in the year 2000 and dividends to its owner from the following year,
while at the same time accumulating substantial cash holdings for investments and other
uses. These conditions could also offer the opportunity for achieving the Government's



- 29 -
ultimate objective, which is to start reducing real tariff levels while keeping an adequate
quality of service.
4.18  Cash generation and rate of return should be the driving forces of EDC's financial
management measures. Accordingly, starting FYl996, EDC should charge tariffs at least
sufficient to produce revenues that would cover cash operating expenses, debt service
requirements, net increases in working capital, major repairs expenditures and government
taxes. It should also be expected that EDC produce annual rates of return on revalued
assets of not less than 6% in FY1999 and thereafter. This target is less than the prevailing
and expected opportunity cost of capital in Cambodia over the period under review.
However, the financial forecasts indicate that the target would be sufficient to enable EDC
to generate enough internal funds to meet its various obligations and yield financial results
comparable to those in Table IV.4 above. With a view to maintain an adequate financial
performance agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government will support
EDC in taking all measures necessary (including tariff increases) to achieve its financial
targets. It was also agreed that the Government will cause EDC, for FY96 onward, to
produce revenues sufficient to cover all its expenses and in FY99 and thereafter, produce
rates of return of not less than 6%. The two-year Performance Plan agreed between
MIME and EDC (para. 2.8) includes additional short term financial targets for EDC.



V. Project Justification
5.1   The current situation of the sector is critical, to the extent that it has become a
barrier to economic development as severe power shortages are curtailing power
dependent production and services. The efficient development of the power sector is
therefore crucial for Cambodia's economic development. Through the provision of capital
for the rehabilitation of the power system, the project will contribute to sustaining the
country's economic growth. The project will also improve the efficiency of the power
sector, both in terms of reducing distribution losses and closing the demand-supply gap,
thus reducing the economic cost of unserved demand and expensive back-up generation in
Phnom  Penh.  Finally, the project will contribute towards the strengthening and
modernization of sector institutions, preparing them to handle effectively the urgent
requirements of the power system and enabling the environment for a sustained and
efficient growth and operation of the power sector, open to private participation.
5.2   The project is an essential part of EDC's least-cost expansion since without the
rehabilitation of distribution efforts in expanding generation will not yield any benefits.
The benefits arising from the implementation of this project are primarily: (a) the
improvement of the reliability of supply to existing consumers; (b) the reduction of system
losses and increase of transmission and distribution efficiency; and (c) the provision of
additional distribution capacity to satisfy rapidly growing demand. Improved reliability
will increase quality of supply and reduce the economic losses from outages and voltage
fluctuation; loss reduction and capacity increase will allow to increase sales at least cost.
The decision by EDC to adopt a single medium voltage system (22 kV three phase) will
enable the old MV networks to be retired over time, reducing losses and increasing
reliability. It will also permit the rationalization of distribution equipment, resulting in
more cost effective designs.
A. Economic Analysis
5.3   The internal economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 21.5%.
This is a sound rate which reflects the priority of refurbishing the distribution network
under circumstances of strong demand pressure. This estimate is based on the net benefit
flow (value of electricity sales less economic cost of supply) of the incremental electricity
sales attributed to the project (over a six-year period, with one-year time lag), and the
additional benefits related to the system reliability improvement and loss reduction
associated to the project. The revenues from incremental sales are computed on the basis
of the present average retail tariff of 16 US.cents/kWh, ignoring consumer's surplus. The
cost stream comprises the investment in transmission and distribution under the project,
the cost of incremental energy purchased and the incremental operation, maintenance,
billing and administration costs associated with the project.
5.4   The economic viability of the project was tested against three adverse conditions
stemming from project risks, namely, delayed procurement and implementation, cost
overruns and poor operation and maintenance (para. 5.6). It was found that if project



-31-
implementation is delayed by one year, the project would still show a high ERR of 21%.
The project economic viability would be more sensitive to cost overruns, which in the case
of a 10% increase in the investment cost, would lower the ERR to 19.3%. In the unlikely
case of both deviations occurring simultaneously, the ERR would decline to 18.9%.
Finally, in the case of a poor operation performance reflected in high O&M costs and
higher energy losses, the project's ERR would go down to 18.7%. In all cases, however,
the economic performance of the project would remain satisfactory. The project is not
expected to be sensitive to a lower growth of demand because there is presently a very
large suppressed demand. A set of results and underlying assumptions for the economic
analysis are presented in Annex 15.
B. Project Risks
5.5   The technologies for all project components are conventional and well proven.
The basic planning of the distribution system in the area to be served by the project has
been comprehensively reviewed as part of the project preparation. Detailed project design
should, therefore, proceed fairly smoothly. The implementation of transmission lines and
substations is being planned on a single responsibility basis, which should result in a
speedy execution of the project. In view of the advanced action being taken by EDC in
acquiring land for substations, this activity is not expected to pose problems in the project
execution. Delays in making decisions on procurement could cause a delay in the
execution of the project; however, this activity will be closely monitored by the Bank. The
risk of load growth not materializing as forecast is minimal, given the development
potential of the area and the existing large suppressed demand.
5.6   In summary, project risks are primarily ascribed to the weaknesses of the sector
institutions. If these weaknesses are not addressed effectively, the project could face
delayed procurement and implementation, cost overruns and poor operation and
maintenance. To mitigate these risks, the technical assistance component of the project
will provide the services of foreign experts to adequately train the local staff, supervise the
works and control the quality of the results. With regard to the broader institutional
framework, the Government has demonstrated the willingness to implement reforms to
create an efficient, autonomous and commercially viable power utility and open the sector
to private participation; this would indicate that the risk of lack of commitment is low.
The technical assistance and capacity building component of the project will specifically
assist the power utility and the Ministry in defining and implementing the reform process.
5.7   Country risks can be categorized into two types. First, there are security problems
that make difficult to carry out projects in some rural areas. This type of risk would not
affect the project since all works are confined to the city of Phnom Penh, where security
conditions are not a problem. A second distinct risk is political. The current political
situation is fragile and could change in any number of directions. The project is proposed
under the assumption that governance will improve as legal reform, civil service reform
and training programs progress, and the political situation remains stable.



VI. Agreements and Recommendation
A. Agreements
6.1   During negotiations, the following principal agreements were reached with the
Government, namely that it will:
(a)  Take all action necessary to ensure that EDC carries out the Performance Plan
(para. 2.8).
(b)  Redefine the role of , or phase out, electricity wholesalers prior to the
initiation of the low voltage construction program under the project, and
prepare an action plan for the implementation of these measures not later than
March 31, 1996 (para. 2.11).
(c)  Cause EDC to maintain its records and accounts in accordance with
appropriate internationally accepted accounting principles, and submit to IDA
audits of these records and accounts, together with the audited accounts of
the project, within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.16).
(d)  implement a timetable for the reform of the power sector, which includes the
establishment of EDC as a separate entity by December 31, 1995, the
enactment of the Electricity Act by June 30, 1996, and the establishment of an
autonomous regulatory body for the power sector by September 30, 1996 (if
any of these events do not take place by their respective date, IDA would
have the right to suspend Credit disbursements) (para 2.18).
(e)  Ensure that EDC has a qualified advisor to its Board (para. 2.19).
(f)  Ensure that EDC will employ consultancy services according to terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para 3.8).
(g)  Implement the Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan as approved by the
Government and IDA, and according to an agreed timetable, and monitor its
implementation on a regular basis (para. 3.19).
(h)  Enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with EDC, under commercial terms
satisfactory to IDA, within three months after EDC is established as a
separate juridical entity (para. 3.21).
(i)  Approve of EDC's reconstituted balance sheet not later than June 30, 1996
(para. 4.6).



- 33 -
(j) Take all measures necessary to assist EDC collect its outstanding account
receivables, and cause EDC to reduce these receivables to not more than three
months of sales revenue by December 31, 1998, and to 2.5 months of sales
revenue by December 31, 1999 (para. 4.7).
(k)  Review not later than October 1 of each fiscal year EDC's investment
program and power tariffs in consultation with IDA, and thereafter make all
necessary adjustments (para. 4.9).
(1)  Support EDC in taking all measures necessary (including tariff increases) to
achieve its financial targets, and ensure that EDC will produce revenues
sufficient to cover all its expenses and in FY99 and thereafter, produce rates
of return of not less than 6% (para 4.18).
B. Recommendation
6.2   The aforementioned agreements having been reached, the project would constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 25.8 million (US$40 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with maturity of 40 years to the Kingdom of Cambodia.






ANNEXES






- 34 -                             Annex I
Page I of 3
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Power System Indicators and Installations
Main Sector Indicators (Phnom Penh)
Installed Capacity (serviceable):                      40 MW
Available Capacity:                                    25 MW
Peak Demand                                            55-60 MW
Gross Production: (EDC)                                114.8 GWh/yr
Sales                                                  82.2 GWh/yr
Suppressed Demand                                      112.0 GWh/yr
Total Losses                                           37 %
Consumption per capita
National                                    26 kWh/yr
Phnom Penh                                  138 kWh/yr
Tariffs (single energy charge)
Wholesale                                   9.8 UScents/kWh
Retail                                      14 to 22 UScents/kWh
Number of employees                                    1,177
Consumers per employee                                 34
Installed Capacity
Electricity generation in Cambodia is in small isolated systems. By far the largest system is
in Phnom Penh, where the installed capacity is about 71 MW, of which only 40 MW are
serviceable. Of this, only about 25 MW is available at present.
The state of the five existing stations is as follows:
Station Cl
Total capacity: 23 MW. All the diesel machines are old with the exception of one
new 1.8 MW machine supplied by the French Government in 1993. Most of the
machines are unserviceable. All other old units will need to be retired by the end of
1995.
Station C2
Total capacity: 28 MW. The three existing 6 MW steam turbines have been
overhauled and are in running order. However, they have been derated, and only



- 35 -                            Annex I
Page 2 of 3
two machines are able to be operated at once. Three of the five old 2 MW GM
diesels at this site are to be moved to Station C3 and overhauled. All are overdue
for retirement.
Construction of a new 35 MW IPP plan is to begin shortly at this site.
Station C3
Total capacity: 6 MW. The original three diesel machines were restored a year ago,
but due to lack of running spares, they are again in need of repair. These three,
together with the three from C2, are to be repaired through ADB and Australian aid.
All are overdue for retirement.
Station C4
Total capacity: 14 MW. Spares for the existing diesel machines are on order and
these should suffice to keep the machines runmning for about two more years.
Station CS
The existing diesel machines at this station have never been commissioned. One is
to be moved to C4 and commissioned. The others are to be scrapped.
The first of the two 5 MW JICA-funded machines is due to be commissioned in
1995, with the second machine coming on-line in 1996.
Many small privately owned generating sets are in use in Phnom Penh because of the poor
reliability of the EDC supply. Their number and capacity is not known although it is
estimated to exceed 100 MW. .
Distribution system
The distribution system of Phnom Penh comprises two principal medium voltage (MV)
levels, 4.4 kV two phase and 15 kV three phase. Approximately 60% of the network is
underground cable. Some 6.3 kV three phase circuits are also in service but very little.
The 4.4 kV system comprised approximately 30% of the total, and serves the older part of
the city. Part of it has been replaced with 22 kV equipment operating at 15 kV at present,
with assistance from EdF. This will leave 44, 4.4 kV substations in service. Of these, four
are to be replaced by EDC (using materials supplied under the second stage of the EdF
project), a further three are to be replaced under the JICA project and 18 are to be replaced
under the ADB project, leaving 19 requiring replacement.



- 36 -                             Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Low voltage, (LV) distribution is mainly by overhead lines with about one percent
underground. Distribution substations are mostly in buildings housing MV switchgear,
transformers and LV distribution equipment.
EDC is also responsible for the installation and maintenance of street lighting equipment.
Due to the conflict in the country and lack of funds over many years, and particularly since
the withdrawal of Russian experts, the condition of the network has deteriorated badly.
Much of the equipment is old, particularly the underground cables and switchgear. There is
a need for replacement of much of the equipment due to its age, the unavailability of spares
for the switchgear and frequent faults on the underground cable system.
Network records are well kept, considering the recent past situation. A record for each
ground mounted substation listing modifications has been maintained since 1986.
Computerisation of the records is required.



- 37 -                   .Annex 2
Page I of 11
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Power Demand Forecast and Expansion Requirements
A desegregated forecast of expected sales in Phnom Penh was prepared by
EDC consultants from the present to the year 2009. Forecasts for the initial years in all
sectors have been based in energy, survey data and, in the absence of reliable statistical
information, on data from other cities on Asia. The forecast takes into account the
estimated high levels of suppressed demand in the city. The forecast growth rates reflect
expected real increases in GDP growth and, through income and price elasticities reflect
also the effect of projected income and tariff changes.
Residential load growth drives the forecast demand. A rapid increase in
customer numbers is expected to occur in 1996 and 1997, as the system is rehabilitated
and suppressed demand is taken up. Beyond 1998, the projected increase in customer
numbers falls. Commercial load growth is expected to be rapid on over the next 7 years
as suppressed demand is picked up and commercial development accelerates. Growth in
the government sector is expected to be modest both in terms of customer numbers and
average consumption.
The total number of connections is difficult to estimate. The survey of
electricity wholesalers carried out this year gave a figure of approximately 40,000 but
since the survey was conducted, it has been discovered, when refurbishing the network,
that sub-metering has been occurring. If this practice is widespread, the number of
customers may increase by as much as 50-60%. For the purposes of forecasting, sub-
connections are included as suppressed demand, and are gradually introduced as sales
through an increase in the electrification ratio.
The rate of economic recovery will strongly influence the forecast. Rates of
GDP growth have been based on the Bank forecasts. For the residential sector, an
income elasticity of demand of 0.8 has been used. In the commercial and manufacturing
sectors, a multiplier of one has been used. Technical losses have been estimated at 15%
of energy generated, and it has been assumed that they will reduce to 7% by the end of
the forecast period.
Assumptions have been made about power and load factors, the ratio of
daytime and evening peak loads and the coincidence of peak loads in the different
categories to calculate system demands from the energy sales forecasts. The assumptions
made are considered reasonable but should be confirmed by EDC through a detailed
study of the demand patterns on their system.
Forecast results are given in Table 2.1. In summary, demand on EDC's
generating plant is expected to increase from 55 MW at present, to around 70 MW in
1998, 100 MW in 2001 and around 160 MW by the year 2009.



AioesCAI at thic c
- 38 -                           Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
Projected Generation Requirements
At present, in spite of the best efforts of EDC and various donors, there is a
peak power deficit in Phnom Penh. Blackouts are a daily feature of the electricity supply.
New generating plant is being installed at Stations C3 and C5 with the assistance of the
World Bank and JICA and various donors are assisting with the maintenance of existing
plant. A new power station, C6, is implemented with the support of the Asian Development
Bank.
A medium term investment prioritisation study, funded by UNDP, was
completed in April 1994. The study identified the need for investment in generation
exceeding US$50 million during the next three years. Subsequently, the Government
negotiated and signed an IPP contract with Leader Universal Holdings and other parties for
purchase of the whole of the output of a 35 MW diesel power plant to be built at Station C2.
The commissioning of Stations C3 and C5 with new engines and the
commissioning of the first IPP plant will relieve the peak power deficit from 1996, but only
until 1998. By that time, a further 35 MW of new generation will be required for Phnom
Penh. This would relieve the peak power deficit through to 2002 - 2003. At that time, a
further 40 MW would be required. This assumes that the Kirirom hydropower station will
be operational again from 1997, contributing 10 MW of capacity. Tentative power balance
are illustrated in Figure 2.1 and detailed data is given in Table 2.1.
The likely location of new generation has not been defined at this time, and
the size of new plant mentioned above is indicative only. Generation plans need to be
firmed up as soon as possible, and additional transmission connections developed.
Transmission Requirements
Power transmission at 115 kV is being introduced to Phnom Penh as part of
the proposed project. Its introduction is considered necessary to help meet the expected
increase in demand and to provide the higher reliability. 115 kV has been selected as the
transmission voltage because it is an appropriate voltage level for the power transfers
involved. Transmission design capacity will initially be approximately 100 MVA, but
provision will be made for the addition of further circuits and transformers to expand the
grid around the city of Phnom Penh as demand grows.
The transmission system will facilitate the connection of new generation to
the power system and delivery of power to the market. The transmission system will also
facilitate the proposed changeover in distribution voltage from 15 kV to 22 kV. Depending
on the location of future generating plant, it is possible that a higher transmission voltage
will need to be added to the system in the future. The proposed 115 kV design takes this
into account. The choice of higher voltage, its capacity and connection arrangements would



- 39 -                             Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
need to be studied when the needs are known. Any necessary modifications to the 115 kV
system would need to be arranged at that time.
Distribution Requirements
As at 1994, the distribution network is estimated to cover only 30% of
households in the supply area. With sufficient investment, this is expected to reach about
80% by the year 2002, staying at this level until the end of the forecast period.
Investment by EDC in the short term will be used primarily to finance
rehabilitation of the MV and LV distribution systems. This will include the upgrade of
existing facilities, and the connection of new customers in all sectors. Rehabilitation will
reduce losses and improve the quality of supply to customers.



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.1: Base Power Demand Forecast: Resiefantial
Base Year Forecast -->
1994      1995       1996      1997       1 998     1999       2000      2001       2002      2003       2004       2005      2006       2007      2008       2009
Population Growth % a/                      4.10      4.06       4.03       3.99      3.96       3.92      3.89       3.85      3.81       3.78       3.74      3.71       3,67      3.64       3.60
Migration (+ or-) %                         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Population                    691,000   719,331   748,567   778,723   809,817   841,862   874,875   908,870   943,862   979,863  1,016,888  1,054,949  1,094,057  1,134,225  1,175,462  1,217,779
Projected Occupancy Rate a/        5.5       5.6        5.7       5.8        5.9       6.0        6.1        6.2       6.3        6.4       6.5        6.6       6.7        6.8       7.0        7.1
No of Households              125,636   128,601    131,591    134,604   137,639   140,693   143.766   146,856   149,961    153,079   156,207   159,345   162.490   165,640   168,792   171,946
Projected Incr in Consumers %               0.00     35.00      40.00      20.00     15.00      10.00      7.00       4.00       2.00      2.00       2.00      2.00       2.00      2.00       2.00
Prolected Real lncr in GDP 1                 8.0        7.7       7.4        7.1       68         6.5        6.2       6.0        5.7       5.5        5.3       5.0        4.8       4.6        4.4
Proj Real Incr in Res Tariff %               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Projected 1ncr in Av Sales % hI              6.4        6.1       5.9        5.6       5.4        5,2        5.0       4.8       4.6        4.4        4.2       4.0        3.9       3.7        3.6
No of Consumers                37.437    37,437    50,540    70,756    84,907    97,643   107,408   114,926   119,523   121,914   124,352   126,839   129,376   131,963   134.602   137,294
Electrification Ratio            0.30       0.29      0.38       0.53       0.62      0.69       0.75      0.78       0.80      0.80       0.80       0.80      0.80       0.80      0.80       0.80
Sales lGWhb                     78.62      83.65    119.86    177.67    225.23    273.03    315.90    354.82    386.61    412.37    439.05    466.65    495.16    524.57    554.88            586.07        0
Average Sales (kWh)             2,100      2,234     2,372      2,511      2,653     2.796      2,941     3,087      3,235     3,382      3,531      3,679     3,827      3,975     4.122      4,269
Growth in Sales 1%)                          6.4      43.3       48.2       26.8      21.2       15.7       12.3       9.0        6.7       6.5        6.3       6.1        5.9       5.8        5.6
Non-technical losses (%) c/       15.0      15.0       13.0      12.0       10.0       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0        7.0       6.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0
Total Consumption IGWhI          92.49      98.41    137.77    201.90    250.26    296.77    343.37    385.68    420.23    443.40    467.07    491.21          521.22    552.18    584.08    616.92
Allow for Suppressed Dmd (GWh)  84.14      93.61     72.65      30.83       0.00
Technical Losses    d/              15        15         12        10          9          9         9          9         9          9         9          9         7          7          7         7
Annual Load Factor I%)             55         55        55         55        55         55         55        55         55        55         55        55         55        55         55         55
Evening Peak (kW)              43,130    46,888    49,629    53,672    57,079    67,688    78,317    87,966    95,846   101,133   106,531    112,036   116,324   123,234   130,354   137,683
Evening Peak Coincidence             1         1          1         1          1          1         1          1         1          1         1          1          1         1          1         1
Day/Evening Peak Ratio l%l          45        45         45        45         45        45         45         45        45         45        45         45        45         45        45         45
Daytime Peak (kW)              19,409    21,100    22,333    24,152    25,686    30,459    38,243    39,585    43,131    45,510    47,939    50,416    52,346    55,455    58,659    61,957
Daytime Peak Coincidence           0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6
Summary of Generation Requirments
Cons + Supp Dmd + Losses GWh   207.80    225.91    239.11      258.59    275.01    326.12    377.33    423.82    461.79    487.26    513.27    539.79    560.45    593.74    628.05    663.36
WeightedEvenlngPeak kW         43,130    46,888    49,629    53,672    57,079    67,688    78,317    87,966    95,846   101,133   106,531    112,036   116,324   123,234   130,354   137.683
Weighted Daytime Peak IkW)     11,645    12,660    13,400    14,491       15,411    18,276    21,146    23,751    25,879    27,306    28,763    30,250    31,407    33,273    35,196    37,174
Power Factor at Peak Load e/      0.80      0.80       0.85      0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90
Weighted Evening Peak   kVA    53,913    58,610    58,387      59,635    63,422    75,208    87,019    97,740   106,496   112,370   118,368   124.484   129,249   136,926   144,838   152,981
Weighted Daytime Peak   kVA    14,556    15,825    15,765    16,102    17,124    20,306    23,495    26,390    28.754    30,340    31,989    33,611           34,897    36,970    39,106    41,305
a/ Based on World Bank Report No. 12667 'Cambodia - From Rehabilitation to Reconstruction'                Real growth in GDP is assumed to tall from the present level of around 8% pa to 4.4% over the forecast period.
bI Projected increase in average sale is determinerd firstly by long run Income and price elasticities.  The projected growth is then adjusted upwards by 90% of the projected reduction in non-technical losses.  0;
The peramerters used are GDP and electricity price changes with coefficients of +0.8 and -0.5 respectively.  c/ Assumed to be unaccounted for consumption.                                              In
The coefficent of 0.8 for GDP changes is considered reasonable for a predominantly reesdential load.  d/ Excludes generating station auxiliaries and own consumptIon.                                    4.
This cofficient could be raised to 1.0 in future forecasts If the ees mix chanwgs more In favour of commercial loads.  a/ Power factor corrected from 1996 onwards.                                     I   I



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABIELITATION PROJECT
Table 2. 1: Base Power Demand Forecast: Commnercial1
Base Year Forecast -- >
1 994      1995       1996        1 997      1 998      1 999       2000       2001        2002       2003       2004        2005       2006       2007        2009       2009
Projected lncr in Consumers %                  0.00      40.00       20.00      10.00        7.50       5.00        3.50       2.00        1.00       1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00
Projected lncr in Av Sales %                    8.0        30.0       15.0        15.0       15.0       12.0         6.2        6.0         5.7        8.5        5.3         9.0        4.8         4.6        4.4
No of Consumers                    1,737      1,737      2,432       2,918      3.210       3,451      3,623       3,750      3.825      3,863       3,902      3,941      3,980       4,020      4,060       4.101
Sales            GWh                7.30       7.88       14.34      19.79      25.03       30.95      36.39      40.01       43.24      46.17       49.18      52.29      55.47       58.73      62.06       65.46
Average Sales       kWh            4,200      4,536       9,897      6,781      7,799       8,968     10,044      10,669     11,305     11,950      1 2,605    13,267     13,935      14.608     1 5,285     1 5,963
Growth in Sales       %                          8.0       82.0       38.0        26.5       23.6       17.6         9.9        8.1         6.8        6.5        6.3         6.1        5.9         5.7        5.5
Non-technical losses a/  %            1 5         1 5        1 3         1 2        1 0          8          8          8           8          7          6           5          5           5                      5
Total Consumption   GWhr             8.58       9.27      16.48       22.49      27.81      33.64       39.56      43.49       47.00      49.64      52.32       55.04      58.39      61.82       65.33      68.91
Allow for Suppressed Dmd GWh         26.3       26.3       20.0        15.0       10.0         5.0        0.0
Technical Losses    b/  %              1 5        185        1 2         1 0         9           9          9          9           9          9          9           9          7           7          7           7
Annual Load Factor   c/ %             42         42         42          42         42          42         42          42         42         42          42         42         42          42         42          42
Daytime Peak         kW           11,154     11,374     11,268      11,321     11.294      11.540     11.815      12,989     14,038     14.828      15,628     16,439     17,064      18,067     1 9,092     20,1 39
Day Peak Coincidence                  0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8
Evening/Day Peak Ratio    %           90          90         90          90         90         90          90         90          90         90         90          90         90         90          90         90
Evening Peak        kW            10,039     10,236     10,141      10,189     10,165      10,386     10.634      11,690     12,634     1 3,345     14,065     14,795     1 5,358     16,260     17,183      18,125
Evening Peak Coincidence              0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.6         0.8        0.8         0.8
Summary of Generation Requirements
Cone + Supp Dmd + Losses GWh       41.04      41.85      411.46      41.65      41.55       42.46      43.47       47.79      51.65      54.55       57.50      60.48      62.78       66.47      70.25       74.10
Weighted Evening Peak    kW        8,031      8,189      8,113       8,151      8,132       8,309      8,507       9,352     10,107     10,676      11,252     11,836     12.286      1 3,008    1 3,747     14,500
Weighted Daytime Peak    kW        8,923      9,099       9,014      9,057      9,036       9,232      9,452     10.391      11,231     11,862      12,503     13,151     13,651      14,454     1 5,274     16,112
Power Factor at Peak Load d/        0.85       0.85        0.85       0.85       0.85        0.85       0.85        0.85       0.85       0.85        0.85       0.85       0.85        0.85       0.85        0.85
Weighted Evening Peak   kVA        9,448      9,634       9.545      9,590      9,567       9,775     10,008      11,002     1 1,891    12,560      13,238     13,924     14,454      1 5,304    16,172      1 7,059
Weighted Daytime Peak   kVA       10,498     10,705     10,605      10,655     10,830      10,862     11,120     12,225      13,212     13,955      14,709     15,472     16,060      17,004     1 7.969     18,955
s/ Assumred to be unaccounted for consumption.
b/ Excludes generatinig station own consumption and losses.
c/ Typical business hours: 1000 - 2000, 7 days per weak
d/ Power factor corrected from 1996 onwards.



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABIELITATION PROJECT
Table 2. 1: Base Power Demand Forecast: Manufadturin,
Base Year Forecast -- >
1994       1995       1 996       1997       1 998      1 999       2000       2001        2002       2003       2004        2005       2006       2007        2008       2009
Projected 1ncr is Consumers %                   0.0        35.0       40.0        17.0       17.0        17.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       15.0       15.0        15.0       14.0        14.0       14.0
Projected lncr in Av Sales %                  30.00       10.00      10.00        9.00       9.00       9.00        9.00       8.00       8.00        7.00       7.00        7.00       6.00       6.00        6.00
No of Consumers                      1 96       1 96       288         370        433         507        593        688         798        928       1,065      1,22 5      1,408      1.606      1,830       2,087
Sales            GWh                2.00       2.60        3.86       5.94        7.58       9.67      12.33       15.44      19.35      24.24       29.83      36.70      49.16       54.57      68.95       79.69
Average Sales       kWh           10.200     13,280     14,586      16,045     17,489      19.063     20.778     22,440      24,236     26,175     28,007      29,967     32,085      33.989     36,029      38,1 90
Growth in Sales       %                        30.0        48.5       54.0        27.5       27.5       27.5        2 5.3      25.3       25.3        23.1       23.1        23.1       20.8       20.8        20.8
Nos-technical lossoes a/  %         10.0        9.0         8.0        7.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0         6.0        6.0
Total Conoumprisn   GWh              2.22       2.88       4.20        6.39       8.06       1 0.28     13.11      1 6.43      20.58      25.79      31 .7 3     39.04      48.04      58.06       70 16      84.78         .
Allow for Suppressed Dmd GWh        2.00       1.50        0.50       0.00
Technical Losses  1%)  bI              18         18         12          10          9           9          9          9           9          9           9          9          7           7          7           7
Annual Lsad Factor 1%)  cI            28          30         30          30         35         35          35         40         40          40         45          45         45         50          50         50
Daytime Peak         kW            2,025      1,950      2.030       2,702      2,890       3,686      4,700       5,153      6,455      8,087       8,846     10,884     13,105      14,283     17,223     20,81 2
Day Peak Coincidence                  0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8
Evening/Day Peak Ratio    %           20          20         20          20         20         20          20         20         20          20         20          20         20         20          20         20
Evening Peak        kW               405        390        406         540        578         737        940       1,031      1,291      1,617       1,769      2,177      2,621       2,851      3,445       4,162
Evening Peak Coincidence              0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8
Summary of Generation Requirements
Cone + Suppr Dmd + Losses GW        4.97       5.12        5.34       7.10        8.86      11.30      14.41       18.05      22.62      28.34       34.87      42.91      51.66       62.43      75.44       91.16
Weighted Evening Peak    kW          324        312        325         432        462         590        752        824       1,033      1,294       1,415      1,742      2,097       2.280      2.756       3.330
Weighted Daytime Peak    kW        1,620      1,560       1,624      2.162      2,312       2,949      3,780      4,122       5,164      8,470       7,076      8,708     10,484      11,402     1 3,778    16,650
Power Factor at Peak Load dI        0.80       0.80        0.80       0.80       0.80        0.80       0.80        0.80       0.80       0.80        0.80       0.80       0.80        0.80       0.80        0.80
Weighted Evening Peak   kVA         405         390        406         540        578        737         940       1,031      1,291      1,617       1,769      2.1 77     2.621       2,851      3,445      4,162
Weighted Daytime Peak   kVA        2,025      1,950       2,030      2,702      2,890       3,686      4,700       5,153      8,455      8,087       8,846     10,884     13,105      14,253     17,223     20,812
a/ Asstamed to be unaccounted for consumption.
bl Excludes generating station own consujmption and losses.
cI Typical business hours: 0730 - 1130, 1400 - 1700, 5.5 days per week.
dI Power factor corrected trom 1996 onwards.



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.1: Base Power Demand Forecast: Govanment
Base Year Forecast -->
1994       1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007       2008       2009
Projected Incr in Consumers %                 5.00      3.00       2.00       2.00        1.00      1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       0.00       0.00        o 00      0o00       0.00
Projected Pncr in Av Sales %                  2.00      2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00
Noof Consumers                     515        541        557        568        579        585        591        597        603        609        615        615        615        615        615        615
Sales           GWh                7.73       8.27      8.69       9.04       9.41       9.69       9.99      10.29      10.60      10.92      11.25      11.36      11.47      11.59      11.70      11.82
AverageSales       kWh          15,000     15,300    15,606      15,918     16,236     16,561     16,892     17.230     17,575     17,926     18,285     18,468     18,652     18,839     19,027     19,218
Growth in Sales      %                         7.1       5.1        4.0         4.0        3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Non-technical losses a/  %         10.0        9.0        8.0        7.0        6.0        6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0
Total Consumption   GWh            8.58       9.09       9.45       9.72      10.01      10.31      10.62      10.94      11.27      11.61      11.97      12.09      12.21      12.33      12.45      12.58        1
Allow for Suppressed Dmd GWh
Technical Losses (%) b/              15         15         12         10          9          9          9          9          9          9          9          9          7          7         7           7
Annual Load Factor (%) c/            50         50         50         50         50         50         50         50        50         50         50         50         50         50         50         50
Daytime Peak        kW           2,305      2,442      2,451      2,467      2,511      2,587      2,665      2,746      2,829      2,914      3.002      3.032      2,996      3,026      3,057      3.087
Day Peak Coincidence                  1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1          1
Evening/Day Peak Ratio %              5          5          5          S5                               5          5                     5          5           S
EveningPeak         kW             115        122        123        123        126        129        133        137        141        146        150        152        150        151        153        154
Evening Peak Coincidence            0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8        0.8
Summary of Generation Requirements
Cons + Suppr Dmd + Losses GW      10.10      10.70     10.74      10.80      11.00      11.33      11.67      12.03      12.39      12.76      13.15      13.28      13.12      13.26      13.39      13.52
WeightedEveningPeak    kW           92         98         98         99        100        103        107        110        113        117        120        121        120        121        122        123
Weighted Daytime Peak   kW       2,305      2,442      2,451      2,467      2,511      2,587      2,665      2,746      2,829      2,914      3,002      3,032      2,996      3,026      3,057      3,087
Power Factor at Peak Load d/       0.85       0.85      0.85       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90       0.90
WeightedEveningPeak   kVA          108        115        115        110        112        115        118        122        126        130        133        135        133        135        136        137
Weighted Daytime Peak   kVA      2.712       2,873     2,884      2,741      2,790      2,874      2,961      3,051      3,143      3,238      3,336      3,369      3,329      3,363      3.396      3,430
a/ Assumed to be unaccounted for consumption.
b/ Excludes generating station own consumption and losses.
c/ Government otfice hours: 0730 - 1130, 1400-1700, 5.5 days per week.
d/ Power factor corrected from 1 996 onwards.



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.1: Base Power Demand Forecast: Total
Base Year Forecast -->
1994      1995      1996       1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008       2009
Consumers         No.          39,885    39,911    53,793    74,613    89,130   102,186   112,215   119,961   124,749   127,312   129,934   132,620   135,380   138,204   141,108   144,097
Energy Consumption and Generation Requirements
Sales          GWh
Residential                     78.62     83.65    119.86     177.67    225.23    273.03    315.90    354.82    386.61       412.37    439.05    466.65    495.16    524.57    554.88    586.07
Commercial                       7.30      7.88      14.34     19.79      25.03      30.95     36.39     40.01      43.24      46.17     49.18      52.29     55.47      56.73     62.06      65.46
Manufacturing                    2.00      2.60       3.86      5.94       7.58       9.67     12.33      15.44     19.35      24.24     29.83      36.70     45.16      54.57     65.95      79.69
Government                       7.73      8.27       8.69      9.04       9.41       9.69      9.99      10.29     10.60      10.92     11.25      11.36     11.47      11.59      11.70     11.82
Total                           95.64    102.40    146.75    212.45    267.25    323.33    374.61    420.56    459.80    493.69    529.31          566.99    607.26    649.46    694.59    743.05
Rate of Growth in Consumers %                0.1      34.8       38.7       19.5      14.6        9.8       6.9        4.0       2.1        2.1       2.1        2.1       2.1        2.1        2.1
Rate of Growth in Sales  a/ %                7.1      43.3       44.8       25.8      21.0       15.9      12.3        9.3       7.4        7.2       7.1        7.1        6.9       6.9        7.0
Total Consumption a/ GWh        111.9      119.6     167.9      240.5     296.1      351.0      406.7     456.5      499.1     530.4      563.1     597.4      639.9     684.4      732.0      783.2
SuppressedDemand     GWh       112.44    121.41      93.15      45.83      10.00      5.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Technical Losses   GWh          39.59      42.54     35.60      31.81     30.28      35.21      40.22     45.15      49.36     52.46      55.69     59.08      48.16      51.51     55.10      58.95
Add:
Street Lighting  GWh             1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51      1.51       1.51       1.51
Own Consumption  GWh b/         14.51     15.80       2.82      4.01       5.01       8.03     11.09      14.10     16.67      18.57     20.54      22.61     24.35      26.98     29.80      32.83
Total Gen. Requirement GWh c/  279.92    300.88    300.97    323.86    342.94    400.75    459.49    517.30    566.62    602.99    640.83    680.57    713.87    764.38    818.42    876.47
Plant Capacity Requirements
Weighted Evening Peak   kW     54,707    58,873    59,013    63,435    67,048    78,559    90,155   101,309   110,649   117,118   123,570   130,353   135,743   144,010   152,824   161,982
Weighted Daytime Peak   kW     25,980    27,333    26,876    28,665    29,837    33,849    38,067    42,285    46,597    50,224    53,174    57,166    60,739    64,561    69,982    76,000
Weighted EveningPeakkVAc,d/    67,751    72,945    69,452    71,087    75,105    87,928   100,851    113,314   123,774   131,039   138,265   145,890   151,961  - 161,223   171,137   181,448
Weighted Daytime Peak  kVA     31,600    33,266    31,740    32,758    34,082    38,648    43,469    48,274    53,273    57,536    60,946    65,662    69,925    74,361    80,785    87,948
Power Factor at peak load        0.81       0.81      0.85       0.89      0.89       0.89      0.89       0.89      0.89       0.89       0.89      0.89       0.89      0.89       0.89      0.89
System Annual Load Factor % c/   58.4       58.3      58.2       58.2      58.4       58.2       58.2      58.3       58.5      58.8       59.2      59.6       60.0      60.6       61.1      61.8
Contribution to Evening Peak (kVA)
Residential                   53,913    58,610    58,387    59,835    63,422    75,208    87,019    97,740   106,496   112,370   118,368   124,484   129,249   136,926   144,838   152,981
Commercial                      9,448     9,634      9,545     9,590      9,567     9,775    10,008    11,002    11,891       12,560    13,238    13,924    14,454    15,304    16,172    17,059
Manufacturing                    405        390       406        540       578        737        940      1,031     1,291      1,617     1,769      2,177     2,621      2,851     3,445      4,162
Governmnent                      108        115       115        110        112       115        118       122        126       130        133       135        133        135       136        137
Street Ltg and Own Consmpt'n    3.876     4,196       998       1,211     1,427      2,092     2,765      3,418     3.970      4,363     4,757      5,170     5,504      6,008     6,546      7,108
Total                          67,751    72,945    69,452    71,087    75,105    87,928   100,851   113,314   123,774   131,039   138,265   145.890   151,961    161,223   171,137   181,448
Per Capita Eiectricity Conrsumption d/
kWh pe               138        142       196        273       330        384        428       463        487       504        521       537        555       573        591        610
kgofcoalequivsl nt(KCE)ps          17         18        24         34        41         48        53         57        60         62        65         67         69        71         73        76
tonne of dl equiv (TOE) pa      0.01      0.01       0.02      0.02       0.03      0.03       0.04       0.04      0.04       0.04      0.04       0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05       0.05
a/ fnciudm non-technicl loss-,                                                             c/ Weighted evening peak dmannd in base year exclusive of suppreased demand is:  40.536 kVA.                     y  5
b/ Mrsdy gorffing piasntasdilauries wid statlon loan. Estimated at 5.5% of generation.     d/ These figures compoe reassonbly wlth date for other Asian countries, Indicating that the hmrecet is reasonable.  0



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Figure 2.1: Generation - Demand Balance
80 -
160
140                                                                                                   ......
120
2                                                     0-~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   . . .  . . .   . .   . . ._  i:
100
80                        .                                        ....
60-  0.i:  :::t
40-                                      S'       '                .       s                         ':  
60
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005x2006.2007
.....able Capacity  EsJ Firm Capaity   sPIanning Forecas



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.2: Power and Enerev Balance
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Power Balance
Peak Demand on Gen. Plant       67,752  72,896  69,608  71,234  75,254  88,075 100,999 113,462 123,923 131,186 138,411 146,035 152,105 181,388
Largest Unit                     6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000
Firm Capacity                   44,125  69,775 103,050 114,050 101,500 128,300 128,300 128,300 176,300 166,300 166,300 166,300 166,300 166,300
Net Power Surplus / (Deficit)  (23,627)  (3,121) 33,442  42,816  26,246  40,225  27,301  14,838  52,377  35,114  27,889  20,265  14,195  (15,088)
Energy Balance
Annual Generation Requirements (GWh)  279.92  300.68  301.65  324.34  343.62  401.42  460.16  517.97  567.30  603.66  641.51  681.25  714.55  765.06
IPP 1 Contract Production (GWh)    0.00    0.00  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02  233.02
IPP 2 Contract Production [GWhi    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00
Kirirom Production (GWh)           0.00    0.00    0.00   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36   43.36
Reqmnts. from Other EdC Plant iGWh)   279.92  300.68   68.63   47.96   67.24   25.04   83.78  141.59  190.92  227.28  265.13  304.87  338.17  388.68
Assumed Plant Availability  a/     80%     80%     80%      80%     80%     80%      80%     80%     80%     80%      80%     80%     80%      80%
Avail. Gen. from Other EdC Plant (GWh)    353  533  764     841     780     967      967     967   1,303   1,303   1,303   1,303   1,303   1,303
Annual Gen. Surplus / (Deficit) (GWh)  73  232     696      793     713     942      883     825   1,112   1,076   1,038      998      965     915
a/ EdC Thermal Plant
o 
0



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.2: Generatins Capacity and System Firm Capacity (kVA)
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
GENERATION
Station Cl
Unit 1 (Sulzer Gramme)             0
Unit 2 (Sulzer Alsthom)            0
Unit 4 (Worthington GM)            0
Unit 6 (Sulzer Gramme)             0
Unit 11 (Sulzer Oerlikon)      3,900   3,900        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit 12 (CAM)                  2,250   2,250        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Station C2
Unit Sl (Skoda)                6,250   6,250        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit S2 (Skoda)                6,250   6,250        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit S3 (Skodal                6,250   6,250        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit Dl (GM Diesel)                0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit D2 (GM Diesel)                0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit D4 (GM Diesel)                0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
IPP 1                              0        0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
IPP 2                              0       0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
IPP 3                              0       0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
IPP 4                              0       0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
IPP 5                              0       0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
IPP 6                              0       0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5.700   5,700
IPP 7                              0        0   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700   5,700
Station C3
Unit 1 (GM Dieselj             2,625    2,625       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit 2 (GM Diesel)             2,625   2,625        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Unit 3 (GM Diesel)             2,625   2,625        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Unit WB1                           0       0   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100
Unit WB2                           0       0   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100
Unit WB3                           0       0   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100
Unit WB4                           0       0   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100   3,100
Station C4
Unit 1 (Russky Diesel)         4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400         0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit 2 (Russky Diesel)             0   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400          0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit 3 (Russky Diesel)         4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400         0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Unit 4 (Russky Diesel)         4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400          0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Unit 5 (Russky Diesel)         4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400          0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Station C5
Unit 1 (Russky Diesel)             0
Unit 2 (Russky Diesel)             0
Unit 3 (Russky Diesel)             0
Unit 4 (Russky Diesel)             0
Unit Jl                            0   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250
Unit J2                            0       0   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250
Kirirom Hydro
Unit 1                             0        0       0   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750
Unit 2                             0        0       0   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750
Unit 3                             0        0       0   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750
Unit 4                             0        0       0   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750
ADB
Unit 1                             0   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7.500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,600
Unit 2                             0   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7.500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7.500   7,500
Unit 3                             0        0   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7.500   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500
IPP 2                                 0       0        0        0       0  40,000  40,000  40,000  40.000  40,000  40.000  40,000  40,000  40,000
IPP 3                                 0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0  48.000  48.000  48,000  48,000  48 000  48,000
Net Generating Capacity          50,375  76,025 109,300 120,300 111,500 138,300 138,300 138,300 186,300 186.300 186,300 186,300 186:300 186:300
Largest Unit                      6,250   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500  10,000  10,000  10.000  10,000  10,000  10.000  10,000  10,000  10'000
Firm Capacity                    44,125  68,525 101,800 112,800 104,000 128,300 128,300 128,300 176.300 176,300 176,300 176,300 176.300 176,300
co 
tx



-48 -                               Annex 3
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Power Sector Reform
Activity        Responsible Agency     Donor's support       Completion date
Establishment of EDC   MIME                 IDA, through P1HRD    Dec. 31, 1995
as separate entity                         grant
Study on             MEF/MIME              IDA, TA Project       Jan. 31, 1996
Commercialization of                        Study Fund
EDC
Study on Power       MIME                  IDA, Phnom Penh       Sep.30, 1996
Sector Regulation                          Power Rehab. Project
Enactment of          MIME, to be passed   IDA, through PHRD    Jun.30, 1996
Electricity Act       by National Assembly  grant
Establishment of an    MIME                IDA, through PHRD    Sep. 30, 1996
autonomous                                 grant and Phnom Penh
regulatory body                            Power Rehab. Project
Implementation of     MIME/EDC                                   Aug. 1995 - Aug.
Performance Plan                                                 1997



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER GENERATION PROJECT
EDC's Organization Chart
Maintenance  Transmission~inite                                      Tak Frc
|  EDC         |....................
|    Director                                                          T
| Distribution    ||Deputy Director ||DGeput ieYfonad           Deputy Director ||Deputy Director ||Deputy Director              Deputy Director ||Deputy Dire;ctorI
Areas         |rectr Distrito          Transmission   |        ommercial   ||AdmiC Pstation           TProjects                Plasiing        BCorporate Fince
Safety             |   Generation    || Resources Billing|        Compute            JICA                 Generabon             Investments Ad
Statiscs             Operabon &                  l                                   AS r   Distribution                        Financial
Mainytenance         Meter Reading        Operabon                                                         Reporting
IOperations                                                      Systems              WB                   Transmission          Financial
Maintenance           Transmission      |CeitCnrl |             Poamig               I PP                 Planning              Planning
ACrdCounting         Puorcasming
Operabons &        ..KirRrom                                                         Standards            Tariff Analyses
Maintenance                I                    Il
System Control  Customer               Personnel          Transmission          Design               Budgetng
Mechanicalt                    ~~~~~~~Personnel      Generabon            Research              Intemal Audit
ElechanicaV                I               Policies
Elecrkshop           Cash Collection        bfTann              Distribution
Accounts
Payable             Payroll
General             Purchasing
Accounbng
Stores
Property>
Maintenance
Records 



- 50 -                              .Annex S
Page 1 of 7
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Design and Implementation Arrangements
DESIGN OBJECTIVES
1.    The need to alleviate critical power shortages in Phnom Penh is immediate and urgent. The
objective of the project design is to provide the transmission and distribution capacity necessary for
a satisfactory standard of electricity supply in the southern and western greater urban area of Phnom
Penh, and to meet the expected growth in demand over the period 1995 to 1998, with provision for
long term expansion after that as the load grows.
SCOPE OF WORKS
2.    The scope of work necessary to achieve the project objectives is
*  Provision for connection of committed generation facilities
*  Introduction of 115 kV transmission system and grid substations to interconnect existing and
future generation sources:
*23 cct-km 115 kVtransmission line
3 x 115/22/15 kVgrid substations
- 200 MVA 115 kVtransformers
*  Development of 22 kV distribution system including distribution transformers:
* 100 cct-km 22 kVunderground and overhead lines
40 MVA 22 kVdistribution transformers
*  Rehabilitation of low voltage distribution system including customer service connections and
metering facilities:
* 300 cct-km LV overhead lines
* 30,000 customer connections
20 MVAr LVpowerfactor correction capacitors
*  Provision of engineering, operations and maintenance equipment and facilities
Construction of stores facilities.
*  Other ongoing and pending power distribution projects within Phnom Penh being funded by
various other donors and lending institutions have been taken into account in the development
of this project, with respect to both areas of implementation and technical developments.



- 51 -                               Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Distribution
3.    Electricity supplies in Phnom Penh emanate from three electrically independent systems.
These are connected to four old power houses having an installed capacity of 71 MW, but only able
to supply a maximum demand of 25 MW. The northern system is supplied from C I and C4 power
stations and the southern system is supplied from C2 and C3 power stations. The system is unable
to meet the present demand, estimated to be 55 MW, and therefore continuously scheduled load
shedding is enforced.
4.    The existing medium voltage (MV) systems, most of which is underground (except for the
suburban perimeters of the city), comprise 4.4 kV (two wire system), 6.3 kV and 15 kV Most MV
feeders were laid more than 25 years ago and are now in a poor and unreliable state and in need of
replacement. The two low voltage (LV) systems(220V two wire and 400/230 V) are also in need of
replacement. Supply to the majority of customers is presently taken via electrical wholesalers.
Customer services are of small cross-section and long lengths, resulting in a poor quality supply
due to the high voltage drop and losses. There is an untenable level of equipment failure, both on
the MV and LV systems.
Transmission Planning
5.    At present EDC does not posses a High Voltage (HV) transmission network although plans
for such a development have been under consideration for some time. HV Connections will be
required to provide for the transfer of energy from source to the load distribution centres and to
interconnect the generating plants in the north, west and south of the city. Under this first stage
project the three generating stations will be connected at 115 kV to 115/22 kV grid substations.
There is also an immediate requirement for facilities to transfer power from the proposed 35 MW
IPP plant. The grid substations are designed to provide for 230 kV connections in the future.
6.    It is proposed that the 115 kV transmission system provide for a load transfer capability of
200 MVA per circuit between grid substations in order to provide for future load transfer outside
Phnom Penh as well as for the City area. Single circuit construction will suffice initially until the
load growth and security requirements justify the installation of the second 115 kV circuit. It is
recommended that the circuits be constructed as a double circuit, but only the first circuit be
installed. When needed, the second circuit could then be insulated and conductored at a relatively
low cost, without the need to replace poles. The design will consider the use of 22 m concrete
poles, although suitable wood poles could also be considered.
MV DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
7.    The design features that have been developed for the project take account of current practice
in Phnom Penh and in neighbouring utilities and to align the designs to international practices. EDC
has adopted a single Medium Voltage (MV) system (22 kV three phase) over the three different
existing MV systems (4.4 kV two wire, 6.3 kV three phase, 15 kV three phase).



- 52 -                               Annex S
Page 3 of 7
Grid Substations
8.    Grid substations will provide for 115/22 kV transformation with an ultimate objective to
provide the system with (n-1) security. The supply of a predicted total load of 180 MVA by 2009
could ideally be achieved by two 30/50 MVA transformers at each of three grid substations. This
would be adequate until the end of the forecast period. Beyond this, it is anticipated that additional
100 MVA grid substations be installed at appropriate locations and connected to a ring transmission
system. Under this project, it is intended to install two of the three grid substations completely; at
the third grid substation only the switchyard civil works and 22 kV switchboards will be installed.
The 115 kV switchgear and transformers may be installed if tender prices prove favourable,
otherwise they can follow once funding becomes available.
9.    Each grid substation will comprise an outdoor 115 kV switchyard, with a single busbar with
two transformer bays and ultimately six incoming bays. Each 115/22 kV transformer will be
ONAN/ODAF rated at 30/50 MVA. In addition two transformers will be specified with a third (15
kV) winding, to enable the staged conversion from 15 kV to 22 kV. These transformers would
initially be used between 15 kV and 22 kV (power flow in either direction), then later used between
115 kV and 22 kV and/or 15 kV (15 kV being gradually phased out of service). The 15 kV capacity
of each transformer needs to be sufficient for transferring a load of 20 MVA. The substation layouts
will also provide for a future 230 kV switchyard. Each indoor, double busbar, 22 kV switchboard
will include two transformer cubicles, fifteen feeder cubicles and one busbar-coupling breaker. The
double busbar will facilitate the changeover of the MV system from 15 kV to 22 kV, since one
busbar could be temporarily operated at each voltage during the changing of each 15 kV feeder (or
section of feeder) to 22 kV.
MV System
10.   The new 22 kV distribution system will continue to be predominately underground within
the inner city area; using three core aluminium, XLPE cables. Feeders will run between grid
substations with an interconnectable network. Pilot cables will provide for future remote control
and indication, similar to that already installed as a pilot scheme under the French project. Single
circuit overhead construction using 1 Om or 12m concrete poles will be used in the peripheral and
rural areas. Aluminium conductor will be used with average 40 to 50 metre spans, underbuilt with
LV where required. To ensure that the changeover from 15 kV to 22 kV can proceed as soon as the
project procurement arrives on site (and not needing to wait until the grid substation
commissioning), distribution transformers will be specified with dual 15 kV and 22 kV windings.
These will be energised initially at 15 kV and then switched to 22 kV once supply becomes
available.



- 53 -                              Annex S
Page 4 of 7
LV System
11.   All low voltage distribution will be installed using bundled conductors. The French project
has already introduced the concept to Phnom Penh and the installed product has been accepted by
EDC. Service lines will be PVC insulated neutral screen (concentric construction). The concentric
type construction will help to minimise illegal connections and provide a safe type of overhead
connection.
Communications
12.   Fiber optic cable will be used for comnmunication between the grid substations. The optical
fibres would be incorporated in the earth wire (OPGW cable) above the 115 kV transmission lines.
Buried multi-pair telephone cable is proposed to provide comnmunication between the grid
substations and distribution substations. This would be buried with the 22 kV cable. The cable
would provide communication for the future SCADA system, as well as providing for voice
communication for maintenance purposes.
Stores
13.   At present EDC operate a stores system, with a main warehouse and two subsidiary stores.
All are in very poor and run down condition. The present stores systems are cumbersome. There
are no computer facilities at any of the stores. The existing stores are inadequate and unsuitable for
the proposed project and it is therefore proposed to construct a new warehouse and introduce a
modem and computerised stock control system suitable for this and ongoing distribution activities.
A suitable site needs to be selected and land purchased; this is being addressed at the time of this
report by EDC.
PROCUREMENT
14.   Bid documents are being prepared for procurement of materials for the project by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement procedures. The
specifications cover the design, manufacture, testing, and delivery to Phnom Penh of the required
materials and plant. Tenderers will be required to quote CIF prices for delivery to the EDC
warehouse at Phnom Penh, shipped through the river port of Phnom Penh or via the seaport of
Sihanoukville. The contracts for the substation and transmission line will include the complete
erection and commissioning (turnkey) of all the supplied equipment. Project materials and plant
will comprise the following Packages:



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
Procurement Packages
Package List                                                 Procurement       IDA Finacing      -US$ million
Lot  Description                                           Process   BD      Local    Foreign   EDC   IDA
1 115 kV Transmission Lines                               ICB      S&E     70%       100%       0.1   1.7
2 115/22 kV Substations                                   ICB      S&E     70%       100%       0.4   9.0
3 Underground Cables                                       ICB     S&S               100%              3.1
4 Conductors                                              ICB       S                100%              2.3
5 Insulators and filtings                                 ICB       S                100%              0.8
6 Poles                                                   ICB       S                100%              3.1
7 Miscellaneous distribution equipment                     ICB      S                100%              7.0
8 Distribution Transformers                               ICB       S                100%              0.8
9 Communications Equipment                                 ICB      S                100%              0.3
10 Vehicles for Maintenace and Operations                   ICB      S                100%              0.4
11 Miscelaneous Items, Computers, Environmental            ICB       S                100%              0.8
12 Buildings and facilities                                NCB      SW      70%       100%      0.01    0.4
13 LV Construction                                          ICB     SW      70%       100%       0.9   2.2
LV Construction - Local Contractors                    Other    SW       70%                  0.2   0.4
14 MV Construction                                         ICB      SW      70%       100%       0.7   1.5
Operational Expenses, Administration and Compensation                                         0.5   0.0
Technical Assistance                                    Other    C       100%      100%             3.3
Contingencies (Physical)                                                                      0.7   2.9
Interest During Construction                                                                  2.5   0.0
Total                                                                                         5.9   40
Notes: Col 1: ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; Other - Pilot Project and
Consultancy services
Col 2: Model Bank Documents: S&E - Supply and Erect; S&S, S - Supply & Supervision or Suppy Only; SW - Small
Works; C - Consultants
CONSTRUCTION RESOURCES
19.    There are no experienced contracting or EDC  resources in Phnom  Penh to carry out
construction of the proposed transmission, distribution and substation works. Other recent
distribution projects have used EDC staff for construction under close supervision of experienced
staff from the donor's own country; however this arrangement has not been totally satisfactory.
Under the present circumstances, unless salaries and wages can be funded externally, there is no
prospect of EDC staff or workers being available to support a project.
20.    There  are  two  options available  in  order to  provide  contracting  resource  for the
implementation of the distribution construction. One option would be for EDC to form a
subsidiary company to undertake contracting work on major projects, with the authority to
employ staff at a reasonable rate. The other option is the retention of private sector companies,
either Cambodian or foreign or both. It is proposed to call registrations of interest from interested
parties, Cambodian and non-Cambodian by advertising in major local and regional newspapers.
Depending upon the level of interest, if necessary a pre-registration meeting will be called to



55 -                                 Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
explain EDC's intentions. The responses will determine which option to take. Whichever option is
chosen, it is recommended that EDC set up a training school for linemen and cablemen and
introduce an accreditation system. Under this system, only accredited workmen, apart from
labourers, wili be eligible to work on any EDC distribution construction contracts. Any company
participating in the tendering process must include the proposed names of the accredited staff to
be used on the works. It will therefore be important for the training process to be set up at an
early stage of the project, prior to delivery of materials and start of construction. ADB is
considering the financing of such a training facility.
ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS
21.   TOR for the engineering consultants are given in Annex 12. Site work to be carried out
by EDC and the consultant (with maximum transfer of technology to EDC), in project design,
construction and implementation techniques, will include the following:
Procurement and Delivery
-  Answering of enquiries during transmission and distribution tendering; evaluation of the
tenders contract negotiations and documentation
-  Confirmation of stores location, design of layout, calling and evaluation of LCB tenders and
construction supervision
-  Purchase if applicable and making available sites for grid substations and route for
transmission line
*  Answering of enquiries during LCB distribution construction tendering; evaluation of the
tenders, contract negotiations and documentation
*  Expediting of procurement packages including approvals of designs, factory inspections,
testing and shipping
* Expediting of internal transportation, receipt and storage of project materials
*  Processing of suppliers' payments in accordance with Bank procedures
Detailed Design and Implementation
*  Prequalification of distribution construction contractors
*  Selection of cable routes and distribution substation sites
*  Identification of suitable sites for pole mounted equipment (loadbreak switches, distribution
substations, etc.)
*  Detailed design arrangements for MV and LV distribution cables and overhead lines
*  Field survey and production of distribution construction drawings
*  Preparation of staking sheets, material bills of quantity, preparation and packaging of
construction packages for local competitive bidding (LCB) by pre-qualified contractors
*  Final detailed design arrangements for grid substations and transmission lines
*  Staking of transmission line route
*  Coordination, engineering supervision, inspection and monitoring of transmission and
distribution construction activities



- 56 -
Page 7 of 7
* Establishing, arranging, checking and reviewing field tests
* Arranging implementation of essential environmental retrofit works and fire fighting systems
at four power stations as documented under the previous Technical Assignment
* Scoping of and contribution to drafting of national electrical supply and wiring regulations
* Preparation of documents for investigating and scoping a future System Control Centre
* Identification of further transmission and distribution projects for Bank funding
Training of Local Staff
* The consultants will be required to train EDC staff in all aspects of distribution engineering
with lectures, seminars, informal discussions, practical demonstrations, etc. and shall involve
EDC in the Project to the greatest extent possible. This training will focus on detailed survey,
design and construction supervision and shall include:
* survey and mapping works
* checking and approval of contractors' designs
* factory inspections and witnessing of tests
* expediting of shipping, local delivery and unpacking
* processing of contractors' payments in accordance with Bank procedures
* coordination, engineering supervision, inspection and monitoring of construction activities
3 establishing, arranging, checking and reviewing field tests
3 general contract administration.
Training of Contractors
22.   The consultants will be required to assist in establishment and setting up of a lineman
training facility and programme for certification of contractors
Design Practices and Operational Procedures
*  As part of the development of EDC's engineering design department, the consultant will be
required to train EDC staff in design practices and operational procedures to enable EDC to
better plan further expansions and to operate and maintain its new systems. The work shall
include the following:
*  Review and make recommendations for uniform mapping procedures for distribution design
including LV distribution and consumer services. Maps shall be prepared in such a way that
they can be used for computerised circuit analysis and transformer load management.
Review current practices and prepare a standard distribution design and construction manual. The
design shall fully utilize the types of materials scheduled in the ICB procurement documents. The
manual shall also include the basic system design criteria and equipment IEC standards, consistent
with the system standards documented in this report.



Phnom Phen Power Rehabilitation Project
Summary Implementation Program 1995-1998
1995                  1996                   1997                  1998                  1999
ID   Task Name                                           Dur   Start  Finish Qtr4tr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2|Qtr 3|Qtr 41tr 1 |Qtr 2|r 3Qtr 4 Qtr 1QIr 2IQI' 3Qr 4tQtr 1 IOr  Qtr 3
1   IDA APPRAISAL AND LOAN PROCESSING                     1".   10/9194  711197 .               *
2       Consultants Complete Designs & Specifications    33.6w   10/9/94   5/31195
3        Recruit and Apoint Consultants for Implemetalio   32    2V5/95  91I51'5.
4        Loan Approval and Made Effective                 24.Sw   51 8/95   in17t9_
9        Bank Supervision Missions                         9w3   W12M    7111/97
15   PROCUREMENT & MATERIAL DELIVERIES                     10.   27/295   3121/97   .             _ _    _                            _ 
16       General Procurement Notice                               115195   J         . 25195
17       Distribution Equipment Procurement (ICB)         52.6.   4126/19   4/6._96
27       Manufacture/Delivery Distribution Equipment   5J 6w   I1 18/895  11122196                       _
64       Stores Construction                                S2w   2/77/93   9/20/96     IL
73       Substations Procurement and Civil Works           76w   911t1n   217817      .                      .
74           Tender Notification Substations                6w   9118195  10/         -.7/95                                                                                                             .
75           Tender Substations                             12w  10/30/95   1119/96
76            Evaluation of Substations Bids                Sw   1122196  3/15/96
77            Bank Approval Substations Contract Award      4w   3118/96  4J12/96                   w       . _r       et easotS         _     _
78            Negotiation Substations Contractor             6w   4115196  5124_96
79            Contract Award Substations                     6.   5127196   7/5.96
80            Letler of Credit                              9w    7819%   /1/6.96     a
81            Delivery Substations Equipment to Site        34w    718196  2/28/97
82                Drawings Substations                      12w   718196  9171796
83                Manufacture                               s.w  9/30196   1/10/97
84                Inspection and Testing                     1w   1/13197   1117/97
85                Delivery Substations                      6w   U20/97   2121197
86       ROW Survey and Compensation Plan                 52.8w   3123/95  3176196
Task                                       Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress                 
Date: 6129195                                     Progress                                    Rolled Up Task z 
Milestone            *                      Rolled Up Milestone O                                                                                       _ n
6   C-M
6/29/95 C:\ECPR\CAMPROJ.MPP                                                                                    5'l~



Phnom Phen Power Rehabilitation Project
Summary Implementation Program 1995-1998
ID   Task Name                                               Dur   Start   Finish  Qtr 4 QIri  Qtr2          Qtr r 04 Qtrl O 1tr 2 01r3 Qtr 4 OQtr 1 lQlr 2Qtr 3 01r4 QIr I Qtr 2 Qtr 3Otr 4 GlQt r  Qr
87            Walkover Survey and Drawings                      4.   3/23/95   5/31/9
88            Compensation Plan Formulation                    l6..   611195   9/20195
89            Implemenation of Compensation                    20    II/am9   3/26196
90        115 KV Transmision Lines - Pro Constructian          79.   9/118J93   3/1I/97
91            Tender Notification Lot 1 1 T/L                   6.   9/18/95  t0/27M9
92            Turnkey tender Transmission Line                 12.  10/30,VS   11
93            Evaluation                                        Lw    MYT96   VW15
94            Bank Approval                                     4.   31l89ft   411/96
95            Negotiation                                       6.   4/15/9   S/24/96
96            Contract Award Lot 1 Transmision Line             3.   5127/6    /4
97            Letter of Credit Lot 1 T/L                        6.   6/117/96   112f
98            Delivery Lot 1 Transmission                      A"    E111/96   3fl                                           _____9____
00
104  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM                                    236 2.    112195   7/12/99                              _______                  ______________
153  COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENI                     70.   8/3l/9S    lI//97                      
154       Appointment of Consultants                            12.   8/31/95  i in2/95
1 55      Support To MIME for Regulatory Framework             12w    1231/95  22122/95    .-
'156      Installation of Billing Sytems                        58w  11/MM9    I/l/97__________ 
'157           Bill Collection Program                          SO.   I21P3/95    1/1/97 
158       Reorganization and Staffing                         52.6w  I1123/95S  lIn/25
6/29195 CA\ECPR\CAMPROJ.MPP



Annex 7
- 59 -                                          Page 1 of2
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Estimates and Financing Arrangements
1    Equipment Component Costs
Cost Estimates                                      Quantities and Rates  Local Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Qty   #   Rate % For  -Riels millions-         --US$ millions-
Financial Assumptions                                        k$/#               2500
A 115 kV Transmission System
115 kV Transmission Lines                          23 km       70  85%   604    3421   4025       0.24    1.37   1.61
11 5/22 kV Substations                              3 S/S   2753  88%  2425   18225  20650        0.97    7.29   8.26
115 kVswitchgear (equipped)                   16 bay    110  90%                             0.18    1.58   1.76
115kV switchgear (un-equipped)                10 bay     20  90%                             0.02    0.18   0.20
115/22/15 kVTransformers (30/50 MVA)        250 MVA      15  90%                             0.38    3.38   3.75
22kV switch gear                              54 bays    25  90%                             0.14    1.22   1.35
Site Establishment and Buildings               3 bigs    400  78%                            0.26    0.94   1.20
B DistributIon System Rehabilitation
22 kV Rehabilitation                                                     4502   13505  18006       1.80    5.40   7.20
Underground Cables                            50 ckm     75  75%                             0.94    2.81   3.75
Overhead Lines                                50 ckm     15  75%                             0.19    0.56   0.75
30% Conductors                                                                             0.06    0.17   0.23
10% Insulators and filtings                                                                0.02    0.06   0.08
40% Poles                                                                                  0.08    0.23   0.30
20% Miscellaneous distribution equipment                                                   0.04    0.11   0.15
Airbreak Switches                             25 #        4  75%                             0.03    0.08   0.10
Distribution Substations                     125 #       22  75%                             0.68    2.03   2.70
Distribution Substations (Cabled)     100 #        15  75%                            0.38    1.13   1.50
Distribution Substations (pole Mounted)  25 #     2.5  75%                            0.02    0.05   0.06
Distribution Transformers              40 MVA      25  75%                            0.25    0.75   1.00
Power factor Correction                       20 MVAr    7  75%                              0.04    0.11   0.14
LV Construction and Consumer Services                                    7500   22501  30002       3.00    9.00  12.00
LV Distribution in U/G area                 300 ckm      24  75%                             1.80    5.40   7.20
30% Conductors                                                                             0.54    1.62
10% Insulators and filtings                                                                0.18    0.54
40% Poles                                                                                  0.72    2.16
20% Miscellaneous distribution equipment                                                   0.36    1.08
LV Distribution in O/H area                  100 ckm     14  75%                             0.35    1.05   1.40
30% Conductors                                                                             0.11    0.32
10% Insulators and fiHtings                                                                0.04    0.11
40% Poles                                                                                  0.14    0.42
20% Miscellaneous distribution equipment                                                   0.07    0.21
Consumer Connections and meter boxes          40 k#      50  75%                             0.50    1.50   2.00
Meters - Domestic                             40 k#      35  75%                             0.35    1.05   1.40
Meters - Industrial/large commercial           0 k#      70  75%                             0.00    0.00   0.00
C Operational and Construction Support facilities
Operational and Commercial equipment                                       83    5125   5208       0.03    2.05   2.08
Communications Equipment                        Lot                                          0.03    0.27   0.30
Vehicles for Maintenace and Operations         5 #       20                                  0.00    0.40   0.40
Tools and Equipment                             Lot                                          0.00    1.08   1.08
Computers and Design facilities                                                              0.00    0.30   0.30
Stores and Logistics                                                       103    1150   1253      0.04    0.46   0.50
Buildings and facilities                      10 ksq m                                       0.04    0.36   0.40
Accounting and Billing Systems                   Lot                                         0.00    0.10   0.10
Environmental Enhancement and Safety                                       83      735    818      0.03    0.29   0.33
Power station cleanup                           Lot                                          0.03    0.25   0.28
Fire protection facilites                       Lot                                          0.01    0.04   0.05



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
- 60 -
2       Technical Assistance and Administration Costs
D Technical Assistance                                                       749   6741  7490    0.30    2.70  3.00
EDC   Design and Construction Supervision          90 mm     18  90%                          0.18    1.58  1.75
EDC   Commercial and UNVs                          20 mm    20  90%                           0.03    0.32  0.35
EDC   Compensation and Environment                  4 mm    20  90%                           0.01    0.07  0.08
MIME  MIME Institutional and Training Support      20 mm     18  90%                          0.04    0.32  0.36
MIME  Regulatory reform                            12 mm     18  90%                          0.02    0.19  0.22
MIME/E Other Consultants                           12 mm    20  90%                           0.02    0.22  0.24
DC
EDC Costs:                                                      1075       0   1075    0.43    0.00  0.43
E          Land Acquisition and Compensation                                 675       0   675    0.27    0.00  0.27
F          Project Management and Administration                             400       0   400    0.16    0.00  0.16
Total Base Cost                                                            17122  71403 88526    6.86   28.56 36.41
Physical Contingencies                     10%  10%  0.08  0.09  1711   7141   8852    0.68    2.86  3.54
Price Contingencies                        16%  9%              3265   7241  10505    1.31    2.90  4.20
Total Project with Contigencies                                            22098  85785 107883    8.84   34.31 43.15
Interest During Construction                1%  7%               218   6076  6293    0.09    2.43  2.52
Total Project Financing                                                    22316  91860 114177    8.93   36.74 4.67
3       Summary of Project Components:
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Riels M                      USSm
A 115 kV Transmission System                                  3961   26552    30513    1.58        10.62    12.21
B Distribution System Rehabilitation                         15688   42823    58511       6.28     17.13    23.40
C Operational and Construction Support facilities              352    8350       8702    0.14       3.34     3.48
D Technical Assistance, Adminsitration EDC                    1676    4346      6022    0.67        1.74     2.41
D Technical Assistance by/for MIME                             433    3714      4147    0.17        1.49     1.66
Interest During Construction                                   218    6076      6293    0.09        2.43     2.52
45.7
4       Financing
-USS million-
Project Financing                                                                      Local  Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                                                                                5.69     34.31    40.00
EDC Self FinancinglGovernment Equity                                                      3.24      2.43     5.67



-61 -                                Annex 8
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed in SDR       % of Expenditures
Category                    Equivalent)                 to be Financed
(1) Civil works                          280,000           70%
(2) Goods and                         21,450,000            100% of foreign expenditures,
installation works                                      100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 70% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3) Consultants' services:                                  100%
(a) EDC                             1,700,000
(b) MIME                              430,000
(4) Unallocated                         1,940,000
TOTAL                          25,800,000
Disbursement Profile
Estimated Disbursement       IDA Cumulative Disbursement
FY        IDA              EDC              %       US$ million
US$ million     million Riels
1996          2             2,500              5               2
1997         10             3,750             30              12
1998         18             5,000             75              30
1999         10             2,925            100              40



- 62 -                                       Anne2
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Inputs to Key Activities
Bank staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to the regular supervision
needs for review of progress reports, procurement actions, financial statements, audit reports and
dealing with associated correspondence. In the first year, 12 staff-weeks will be required to
review progress with preparation of the construction and complementary commercial
development program, training of both EDC staff and local contractors, and plans for reform of
the sector. Thereafter, an average of about 8 staff-weeks per year will be needed to supervise the
project with visits timed to coincide with agreed project milestones as indicated in the attached
schedule, site visits will generally be combined with the supervision of other Bank financed.
Bank Staff Inputs for Project Supervision
App.---    -. -                     -Activity -                            S        . .1n  -
12/95        *Review training program for Project Management Unit (PMU)    Task Manager      2
Initial      staff and Private contractors;                              Engineer
Supervision   *Finalize Bid Documents and compensation issues for        Resettlement        2
Transmission line;                                         Specialist          2
*Review program to improve EDC's commercial viability
*Review progress with establishment of EDC as a corporate entity.  Financial/
*Review demand forecast and generation planning            Management
*Review plans for billing and collection                                       2
3/96-6/98                    Regular Supervision Missions:
Regular      oReview disbursement progress and Project Management        Task Manager        2
Supervision   monitoring and reporting;                                  Financial/
*Review consultants reports and proposed action plans;     Management          2
*Visit construction sites to assess progress;              Engineer
*Review contract awards and reconciliation with Credit                         2
allocations;
*Review compliance with Credit covenants;
*Review EDC's financial situation, and action to meet commercial
objectives;
*Review legal regulatory and financial issues with MOE
*Review progress with project preparation for next project.
Final        *Review status of project in terms of project objectives                        2
Supervision   *Prepare Implementation Completion Report                                      2



-63 -                             Ane10
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Key Project Performance Indicators
Calendar Year                                    95   96   97   98   99
Establishment: EDC as separate entity (month)    12
Enactment: Electricity Act (month)                    6
Recruitment: Engineering consultant (month)      12
Submission: Plan to collect outstanding trade dues (month)   2
Targets:
Distribution losses to EDC (5%)            24   22   19   17   15.5
Trade receivables (moths of sales revenue)       5    4    3    2.5
Rate of return on revalued assets (%)                            6
Implementation: Compensation plan (month)             4
Submission: Plan to phase-out wholesalers(month)      3
Contract award (month):
Substations                                      7
Transmission line                                6
Construction Completion (month):
Substations                                                      7
Transmission line                                                7
Upgrade Billing and Accounting System                 12
Completion:
Regulatory study                                 12
Environment unit study                           12



- 64 -                           Annex l l
Page 1 of 6
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Retrofit and Safety Program
This annex summarizes the findings and recommendations of an enviromnental
assessment of the following:
-    The proposed 115 kV transmission line and associated substations
-    Clean-up at the existing power stations.
A. Proposed Transmission Line and Substations
The initial selection of route and substation locations was undertaken by EDC reflecting
the need for interconnection of the present and proposed power stations in order to be
able to deliver a firm power supply to customers, whilst also reflecting the expected
future expansion of the city limits beyond the location of the line. This route and location
of substations was subsequently revised on the basis of environmental and social impact
considerations.
The assessment of the impact of the proposed transmission line focused on:
-    cost
-    maintenance access
-    environmental and social impacts
-    minimizing interference with others
-    compatibility with other power sector developments (especially the proposed 15
kV JICA-financed line).
The environmental assessment included also a review of the environmental policy and
legal framework which is summarized below.
Policy Legal and Administrative Framework
Environmental Policy in Cambodia. Essentially Cambodia has no established policy,
legal or administrative framework for environmental impact assessment and
environmental protection, other than the general requirements for responsible treatment
of the environmental set out in the Constitution. Cambodia is currently developing its
environmental policy. A framework for environmental policy for Cambodia was set out
in the paper The Status of Kingdom of Cambodia's Environment : Emerging Policies and
Strategies, presented by the Secretariat of State for the Environment (SSE), to the Fourth
Pacific Environmental Conference in Honolulu, March 1994. The following summarizes
the proposed framework:
On the 2nd of July 1993 the government of Cambodia created a Ministry of
Environment. This was the first major step towards the recognition of the
importance of environmental management for the future of Cambodia. This
Ministry was transformed to a Secretariat of State for Environment, in November
1993. The responsibilities of the SSE include nature conservation, the



- 65 -                          Annex  lI
Page 2 of 6
determination of environmental policy, environmental planning, water and land use
management, the drafting of environmental legislation, environmental impact
assessments, environmental education and information, and environmental research
and data collection. SSE has stated that its near-term planning objectives are:
*    passage of overall environmental legislation which defines authority and
responsibilities
*    preparation and passage of an EIA law
*    cooperation in land-use planning and zoning
*    preparation of management plans for parks and other protected areas
*    drafting of regulations, guidelines, and standards for environmental
management and pollution control
*    promotion of environmental education and awareness
*    support of data acquisition and integrated information management".
In addition to SSE activities, the Ministry of Industry, Mines, and Energy (MIME) and
Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries (MAFF) are taking actions to foster
sustainable development. MIME is pursuing passage of a Minerals Law developed during
1994. The Minerals Law calls for preparation of Environment Protection Plans to
mitigate adverse impacts from mineral extraction/processing activities. MAFF is
preparing a Forestry Code to control commercial logging activities and intends to become
a partner in the Tropical Forest Action Planning process which is expected to lead to a
National Development Policy for forestry resources.
As yet there are no mechanisms in Cambodia for the screening of development projects
through EIAs. EDC has no formal environmental policy but has recognized the need for
responsible treatment of the environmental as it rehabilitates and expands its electrical
network.
Environmental Assessment
a.   Transmission Line
The transmission line will be approximately 23 km in length. The line design and route
have been particularly chosen to take full advantage of an existing public road ROW,
avoid the radio station for technical reasons and minimize the environmental visual and
property affecting the impact. However compensation will be considered and where
justified, paid property owners affected by the line route. The line will be similar in
appearance to lower voltage lines except that the poles will be taller (approximately 20
meters, compared to the 9 meter poles for LV lines and 11 meter poles used for MV
lines). The poles may also carry MV and LV lines for local supply.
b.   Grid Substations
The grid substation locations have been selected. The site of GS3 is presently proposed
on private land and steps are being taken in conjunction with the Municipality to identify
and compensate the owners on an equitable basis.
c.   Environmental Impact
There are two environmental impacts of note, namely visual and social, although both are
considered minor:



-66 -                              Annex I I
Page 3 of 6
Visual Impac. Overall the line will have a moderate negative visual impact over much of
the route. Along the southern part of the route visual impact will be low, due to the
presence of existing trees and power lines. Elsewhere there will be moderate visual
impacts as the line will run along roadways or through paddy fields where there are no
existing power lines. The countryside in these areas is relatively open and flat with
scattered trees ranging up to the height of the proposed lines. These trees will restrict the
distance from which the line can be viewed from the city.
Social Impact. The line will have a moderate positive social impact. It will also have
some local effects on growth and development patterns in the western area of the city.
There will be positive social and economic impacts due to employment of local labor
during construction. Skills learned from local construction of concrete poles will be
transferable to other forms of pre-cast construction. The increased reliability of power
supply will also bring positive social and economic benefits, as well as decreased
dependence on noisy and inefficient private generators.
Ecological Impacts. No significant ecological impacts are expected.
Construction. Construction impacts will be minor, provided that the line is built in the dry
season. Construction in the wet season is not recommended due to access difficulty and
crop damage.
Qverall Imp=. The overall environrental impact of the transmission line will be
positive. The negative impacts will be minimal. The line will bring substantial
environmental benefits through improving the overall reliability of power supply to
consumers, thus reducing reliance on small privately owned and inefficient generators.
d.   Route Selection
The proposed transmission line is routed along roads where feasible, with cross-country
diversions only to avoid specific difficulties. Routing the transmission line directly on a
cross-country route was evaluated. Its primary advantages are:
-    reduction in construction cost due to a shorter more direct transmission line length
-    fewer persons subjected in the short to medium term to electric fields due to
relative absence of housing outside the city limits.
The primary disadvantages of direct cross-country routes are:
-    more difficult access for repairs and maintenance
-    greater visual impact
-    greater construction impacts due to need to construct access roads
-    need to negotiate rights of way with attendant compensation costs
-    greater long term impacts as the city expands beyond its present limits, resulting in
the line running through built up areas.
On balance, the roadside route was considered to be the most desirable option, except
where local factors favor a cross-country diversion as having the lowest overall long term
impact.



- 67 -                           Annex I l
Page 4 of 6
e.   Mitigation Plan
The following design measures are proposed to mitigate the environmental impacts of the
proposed transmission line:
Yisual Impacts Visual impacts have been lessened by routing the transmission line
alongside existing roadways where feasible. Along roadways a high degree of
modification of the environment already exists, and the visual absorption capacity (VAC)
is greatest due to existing power lines and trees. A single concrete pole design has been
chosen instead of a steel tower, partly on aesthetic grounds. The poles have the capability
to support other lines, thus reducing visual congestion from multiple lines (high voltage,
medium voltage, and low voltage).
Impact on Trees. Impact on trees has been reduced by routing the transmission line
around the avenue of trees to the south of the radio installation. This route avoids the
need to trim or remove the trees which are an important visual component of the road and
which provide an area of shade in which roadside stalls have been established.
Impact on Radio/TV . Potential impacts on radio and television transmissions have been
reduced by routing the transmission line away from transmission masts.
Electric Fields. Concerns about impacts from electric fields have been addressed by
routing the transmission line away from houses, schools and the like as far as is
practicable.
There is no requirement for environmental monitoring in relation to the transmission line
and substations.
B. Environmental Audit of Power Stations
Environmental considerations of the present power stations focused on those impacts that
would be appropriate and cost-effective to treat during the period of implementation of
the project, bearing in mind the expected short remaining life of some of them.
Scope and Methodology
An environmental evaluation of the power stations presently in operation was undertaken
including inspection and audit of each plant, identification of retrofit works, and
evaluation of bill of quantities and costs estimates. Audits were confined to visual
inspections and interviews of staff. The descriptions of physical works, and estimated bill
of quantities and cost estimates are preliminary and subject to confirmation during the
detailed design phase to be undertaken by the EDC with the project consultant support.
Environmental Standards
In the absence of appropriate national criteria, it is possible to use any one of the
following standards for determining acceptable environmental discharges: (i) numerical
standards based on the assimilation capacity of the particular environment; (ii) numerical
standards adopted elsewhere; or (iii) good practice standards which identify suitable
treatment technologies based on accepted international practice.



- 68 -                                 Annex l l
Page 5 of 6
Adopting best practice standards puts the emphasis on installing appropriate facilities,
maintaining them, and operating them  correctly.   This was considered the most
appropriate approach in the circumstances, given the low level of knowledge about the
assimilation capacity of the receiving environment.
The adoption of this approach requires judgment as to what constitutes good international
practice. It is proposed that the standards adopted are those considered good practice in
neighboring countries, such as Thailand.
PCBs
The presence of PCBs in service on the network was addressed, although this possibility
was considered remote because (i) PCB did not come into general use until after the time
when the network started to fall into disrepair; (ii) PCB was generally used in capacitors
for which there is little need on EDC's underground cable system; and (iii) PCB was not
generally used in distribution transformers, except in special circumstances that do not
apply in EDC's case. Nevertheless, EDC carried out a random inspection program to
check for their presence on the network concluding that there is no PCB in service in
Phnom Penh's distribution network.
C. Proposed Measures
Environmental Retrofit and Safety Measures
1.0    STATIONNO. C]
The following environmental works are reconmmended:
Budget Cost
in USS
1.     Oil-water separator on discharge from under floor sump
- capacity 3 m3/hr                                      $15,000
2.     Remove oil coating from floor and stairs                 $2,000
3.     Supply hearing protection for workers, 14 @ $50 each
$700
4.     Restore integrity of bounded bulk fuel storage area;    $23,100
5.     Sample and analyse lagging from each flue for possible
presence of asbestos                                     $5,000
6.     Minor repairs to diesel engine fuel delivery systems to
reduce fuel leakage               Allow $5,000           $5,000
7.     Repair/replace leaking high pressure fuel pumps          $3,000
8.     Remove asbestos lagging (if confirmed in item 5 above)  $150,000
and bury in city landfill (Provisional Sum)
9.     Fire fighting system                                   $18,000
Total for Station Cl     S221,800



- 69 -                                  Annex 1I
Page 6 of 6
20     STATION NO. C2
The following works are recommended:
Budget Cost
in USS
1.     Rebuild truck to bulk tank transfer facilities (2 No.):
a      Reconstruct truck access to 20m each side of
the transfer facilities
b.     Lay two concrete pads for truck unloading          $20,000
c.     Install two new facilities for bottom emptying
of truck and modify truck :                       $10,000
d      Install new transfer pumps on concrete slab
and connected to existing oil/water separator     $15,000
$10,000
2.     Fire fighting system                                        $4,600
Total for Station C2         $59,600
3.0    STATION NO C3
Budget Cost
in USS
1.     Remove underground diesel bleed tank and replace
with and above-ground tank mounted on a concrete pad
with kerb and drainage to one of the oil/water
separators                                                 $5,000
2.     Supply hearing protectors for workers, 6 sets @ $50
$300
3.     Fit long stem outlet value from bounded areas and
access cat walk                                            $5,000
4.    Fire fighting systems                                        $4,300
$14,600
4.0    STATIONNO. C4
Budget Cost
in USS
1.     Install oil/water separator at outlet from machine hall
sump (3m3/hr) with water outlet drain to off-site
discharge, oil to storage tank                            $15,000
2.     Clean floors and stairs within machine hall to remove
oil film                                                     $300
3.     Provide hearing protection, 14 sets @ $50                    $700
4.     Fit long stem outlet valve from build area and access cat
walk                                                       $3,000
5.     Fire fighting system                                       $20,000
Total for Station C4                                              $39,000
Total Retrofit Program                                           $335,100



- 70 -                             Annex12
Page l of 8
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan
The Magnitude of Adverse Project Impact
1.    Project components that involve resettlement issues are: (i) the 23 km long right-
of-way for the 1 15 kV (high voltage) transmission line (T/L); and (ii) two 1 15/22 kV grid
substation (GS 2 and GS 3). The substation site for GS 3 will involve acquisition of about
8,000 square meters of privately owned land, and will affect nine households. The
substation site for GS 2 is located on unoccupied, presently submerged, government land.
Access road for this site requires the acquisition of 1,350 square meter, affecting four
households. The third grid substations (GS 1) do not require land, as EDC already owns
the plot.
2.    Since the T/L consists of single poles, and because of flexibility in positioning of
the poles, it is possible to minimize disturbance of land use. The right-of-way restrictions
imposed for safety reasons has been determined to be three meters on each side of the
line, i.e. a six meter wide corridor, where no structures, crops, etc. are allowed above
three meters. No access outside the poles are required for maintenance or repair work.
3.    As both the design and the routing of the T/L has consciously sought to avoid
adverse social impact, the magnitude of adverse social impact is much less than could be
expected in a urban environment.
4.    Table 11.1 gives an overview of the types of impact and the number of project
affected people in the project.
Table 11.1: Number of Project Affected People
Grid-Sub-    T/L      TOTAL
stations     ROW
Land to be acquired (ha)  7.6           0           7.6
Residence structures affected    9       6           15
Business structures affected  0          8            8
Number of families affected   13        19           32
Owning land         12            9           21
land Use Right Cert.    I         1            2
Illegal occupation  0             9            9
Families to relocate       9             6           15
Families affected, can stay  4          13           17
Persons to relocate       51            32           83
Persons affected, can stay  0           66           66
Persons, TOTAL            51            98          149



-71-                                 Anncx12
Page 2 of 8
5.     From the above it can be seen that, by following the existing right-of-way for half
of the 23 km and the right-of-way for the proposed road, for the remaining, it has been
possible to reduce adverse impact on people to a minimum. A total of 149 persons in 32
families will be affected. Only six households will have to move their residential houses
from the right-of-way of the 23 km transmission line. The impact is hardest on the 9
families affected by the grid substations, who will have to move away. The 6 families
affected by relocation in the right-of-way of the T/L only have to move their structures
out of the right of way zone, but can remain in the neighborhood. Most of the petty
businesses can remain in the vicinity.
Policy
6.     Legislation regarding ownership and usage of land has undergone major changes,
and had three laws during the last ten years. The Land Law of 1987 which reintroduced
the concept of private ownership also indicate that the state has the right to take back
privately held land for public projects. There is no clear procedure for expropriation and
for calculation of compensation for land, structures and crops. The law was modified and
reissued in 1992, and is currently under revision by the parliament.
7.     The 1992 Land Law states in Article 3, that in the case where the public is
required to take possession of land from a land user who has government permission to
own or use the land "must be given full compensation."
8.     The following policy has been adopted by EDC, and will apply to people affected
by transmission poles and lines (T/L) and grid substations (GS):
(a)  Project design. The transmission project and its components will be designed in a
manner which will minimize displacement and adverse impacts on lives and
incomes of affected people.
(b)  Compensation. All people affected by land acquisition and/or right-of-way for
transmission lines shall be provided fair compensation for lost assets - land,
houses/structures, crops and investments - based on replacement value.
(i)    The principles for compensation for land will be as follows:
a.  For land that is required for the project, compensation shall be paid at
replacement value. This includes land required for grid substations.
b.  To compensate for the restrictions introduced on the land use by a
new right-of-way, EDC will pay the owner an "easement fee" no less
than 2 percent of the replacement value of the land, or the free
installation of an electricity connection (consumption to be paid by
the consumer). The owner can continue to use the land for existing
purposes not interfering with the lines (i.e. crops, trees and structures
must be less than 3 meters in height). Land compensation for the
right-of-way for transmission lines will only be given, when EDC
will acquire the land and this will only happen in densely urban areas,
and is not relevant to this project.



-72 -                               Annex 12
Page 3 of 8
c.  In case of transmission poles, the compensation will be in the form of
a pole fee of Riel 10,000/square meter. This transaction will nornally
not involve formal 'acquisition' of the land.
(ii)    Affected houses and/or structures will be compensated at their
replacement value and EDC will also provide transfer costs. This will be
referred to as the Dismantling, Transfer and Reconstruction (DTR)
allowance.
(iii)   Trees and crops will be compensated at market value.
(iv)   Negotiation and grievance procedures. An agreement will be sought with
each affected household on the compensation derived from the above
principles. EDC will establish an independent Appraisal and Grievance
Committee for dealing with cases where an agreement with the affected
household can not be reached. Further negotiations will be based on the
committee's recommendations.
(v)    Resettlement Incentive Allowance. Affected people shall be paid
Resettlement Incentive Allowance (RIA) to cover initial income losses
during the transition period and to encourage people to relocate. This
allowance will be equivalent to about three months of income.
(Iv)   Replacement land/Resettlement for Displaced Households. Measures shall
be taken to help restore the standard of living of households that are
displaced as a result of land acquisition. These displaced households will
be offered equivalent replacement land in the vicinity. This land will be
identified jointly by the affected household and EDC, and will be financed
by EDC. The households who do not accept replacement land will instead
receive cash compensation for their land.
(vii)  Participation and Consultation. The process of determining compensation
and the process of relocation shall be transparent and participatory. The
affected people shall be included in planning and implementation of the
Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan, and provided with adequate
information regarding compensation entitlements, available options, and
procedures for grievance and appeals.
(viii)  The Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan will have a clear
implementation time frame and people will be compensated and will be
given sufficient lead time to move prior to commencement of construction
works.
(Ix)   EDC will provide all costs required for satisfactory implementation,
management and monitoring of the Land Acquisition and Compensation
Plan.



-73 -                               Annex 12
Page 4 of 8
Institutional Aspects
9.    EDC has prepared a Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan for the project.
This is one of the first attempts to deal systematically, and on a fair basis, with the
practical problems of land acquisition in post-war Cambodia. The plan was prepared
under the following conditions:
in an uncertain legal environment. Thus, most of the land in Cambodia either does
not have clear registration or is not registered at all. For example, the land
registration office estimates that only 17,000 properties in Phnom Penh are
registered whereas at least another 65,000 property registrations are pending. The
Land Law is under revision. Ownership disputes over land are not uncommon.
There is no established procedures for calculating compensation for fixed assets.
as a new task for EDC and the local govermment, which has no policy on land
acquisition and little experience or training in dealing with land acquisition and
compensation issues whichi has to conform to the World Bank's Operational
Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.
10.   In order to facilitate the implementation of the Land Acquisition and
Compensation Plan, this will be complemented by the preparation of a Due Process
Manual which will specify guidelines for implementation. This effort will be undertaken
with the support of a consultant to be funded by the Project Technical Assistance
component (Annex 12)
11.   EDC has sought the assistance from the Municipality and the government to
establish a procedure for a fair level of compensation to private owners of land for this
plan, A rapid survey of land market prices in the area of GS 2 and GS 3 has been initiated
by Department of the Cadastre in the Municipality at the request of EDC. The
Department of Cadastre has expressed interest to use this opportunity as a first step to
establish fair and realistic land valuation procedures in Phnom Penh. The procedures
adopted in this plan may thus provide valuable experience in developing adequate
procedures for asset valuation, negotiations, arbitration and grievances. Although EDC is
committed to the principle of fair negotiations, an element of realism and fairness to the
remaining public in the area must also be considered.
12.   EDC is responsible for the implementation of this land acquisition and
compensation plan. The Project Management Unit (PMU) will handle issues requiring
actions and coordination with the Municipality, and other local authorities, of Phnom
Penh. The Project Implementation Unit has overall control and management of the budget
for Land acquisition and compensation. For the organization of EDC and Ministry of
Industry, Mines and Energy.
13.   The Municipality of Phnom Penh is divided into seven districts (Khan or Srok),
within each district are a number (up to nine) quarters (Sangkat), within which are a
number of villages (Phoum). The smallest unit is the group (Krom) consisting of 20-30
households, where a semi-official is responsible for reporting accidents and liaison with
the local authorities.



-74-                                 Annex 12
Page 5 of 8
14.   Within their areas of responsibility the local authorities will carry out work related
to land acquisition and compensation, under the supervision of the Project
Implementation Unit in EDC.
15.   The following overview over the specific activities to be carried out as part of this
plan indicate the responsible agency and the specific person (position), who will carry out
the activity:
ACTIVITY                    Responsible          Implementing
Agency               Position
1. Physical Survey:        EDC                   Planning Dept.
Dept. of Cadastre
2. Loss assessment:         Joint EDC and        Plan Dist. Land Office
Municipality         Village Heading Dept.
3. Due Process Manual       EDC                  TA Consultant
4. Negotiation with         Joint EDC and        Planning Dept.
owners on level          Municipality         Dist. Land Office
of compensation:                              Village Head
5. Notification:            Municipality         Dist. Land Office
6. Establishment of
Appraisal Commit.:       EDC                  Proj. Impl. Unit
7. Transfer of land
ownership:               Municipality         Dist. Land Office
8. Payment of
compensation:            Joint EDC and        Proj. Impl. Unit
Municipality         Dist. Land Office
Village Head
9. Supervision visits:      EDC                  Deputy Director,
Proj. Impl. Unit
10. Progress reports:      EDC                   Proj. Impl. Unit
11. Monitoring and
Evaluation:             NGO                  Soc. cientist



- 75 -                          Annex 12
Page 6 of 8
Implementation
16.   During the physical mapping and the social assessment of losses likely to be
borne by people because of the project, each and every household along the proposed
route was visited, and information about the project given.
17.   EDC, the Planning and Design Department, will organize that a second round of
systematic information campaign (public meetings) be conducted along the ROW, with
special attention to those affected by the ROW, once the details of the route (e.g. placing
of poles) is known. At the same time an official announcement in local newspapers will
be issued, stating that any person having objections or comments to the assessment of
individual losses and their valuation, must submit those in writing before 30 days after
the publication.
18.   Where land is to be acquired for grid substations or where T/L crosses private
land, a process of negotiation has started during the survey, and will continue between the
owner and EDC until agreement on the level of compensation is reached. During this
process, expected to take two to three more meetings, information about the project will
also be given. Formal notification will be given by EDC, Planning and design
Department, at least two month prior to start of construction.
19.   No person or family will be asked to relocate unless the above steps have been
completed, an agreement on the compensation has been reached, and compensation
and/or allowances has been paid in cash or delivered in kind. The compensation
procedure must be finalized at least two month prior to relocation, and start of
construction. Construction of the trasmission line and substations is expected to start in
mid June and early July 1996, respectively.
20.   EDC will make an effort to reach an agreement with each affected household on
the compensation derived from the policy principles mentioned in paragraph 8, above. In
the event that EDC is unable to reach an agreement on asset valuation and compensation
with the affected household, EDC will establish an independent Appraisal and Grievance
Committee, which will include representatives of the legal authority of the Municipality,
an independent, reputed NGO, involved in urban development, and a village elder (Me
Phoum) from the area of dispute/complaint. EDC will not be part of this committee.
Further negotiations will be based on the committees recommendations. This committee
will also be called upon to deal with complaints arising up to three month after the
construction of the T/L and grid Substations.
21.   The PMU in EDC, which will be recipient of the Technical Assistance
Component of the project (Annex 12), will be responsible for carrying out all activities
related to this plan, unless otherwise mentioned. Supervision and internal monitoring will
be the responsibility of the Deputy Director heading the Unit assisted by the project
consultant, who will report progress and problems to the Director and the Board of
Directors, and if needed recommend on remedial actions.



- 76 -                             Annex 12
Page 7 of 8
22.   To facilitate this work, and because of the pilot nature of the land acquisition and
compensation procedures, a social science research organization (NGO) will be engaged
to do external monitoring and evaluation, i.e. carry out two rapid monitoring studies (up
to one week each): one, as a baseline, during November 1995, and one, one month prior
to start of construction (May 1996), to assess if all project affected people have been dealt
with fairly, and acceptable to them. Six month after finishing of construction, the same
organization will make an evaluation study to determine if project affected people have
maintained or improved their living standard. Each monitoring study will be submitted to
EDC no later than two weeks after field work and a final evaluation report will be
produced by end of 1997, which will also incorporate findings on the procedure adopted
by EDC for the implementation of this plan, and recommendations on procedural
improvements.
23.   An agreed timetable for the implementation of the Land Acquisition and
Compensation Plan is presented in Figure 11.1
Budget and Financing
24.   Table 11.2 gives an overview of the estimated budget:
Table 11.2    Budget and financing of Land Acqu_sition
TN US$
Quantity     Unit cost    Total Cost
Compensation for:
Land (sqm)                7622          20    152,440
Houses              15            4,000         60,000
Crops/trees                       lump-sum      10,000
Pole fee (sqm)             500           5             2,500
Easement fee lump-sum                                  15,000
DTR allowance             23            500           11,500
RI allowance              21            500            10,500
Services & contracts
Incentives (days)   200           5              1,000
Contract, NGOs 3          lump-sum        7,000
Appraisal/grievance Comm.        lump-sum        1,000
TOTAL in US$                                         270,940
25.   The basis for this budget are estimates. On the major cost for compensation, no
firm costing can be made yet, since the negotiations with the owners of the land and
houses have just started. The estimate for this has been set relatively high, at US$20 per
square meter. In addition, total cost estimates for the project consider a physical
contigency of 10% above the base cost.
26.  All compensation and allowances/fees are costs to be borne locally. Only the
services and contracts can be financed out of the IDA credit. It is therefore of vital
importance that local funds are made available for this activity, as it is a precondition for
start of implementing the physical part of the project.



CAMBODIA - Phnom  Penh Power Rehabilitation Project
Figure 12.1: Timetable for the Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan
1995                                             1                                            1996
ID    Task Name                        Apr    May    Jun       Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun               Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov    Dec
1    IDA Credit Effectiveness
2    Physical Survey
3    Loss Assessment
4    Land Market Survey
5    Hiring NGO's
6    Socio-Economic Baseline Survey                                    .___l
7    Establish. of Grievance Commite
8    Recruitment of TA Consultant
9    Preparation of Process Manual
10    Negotiation and Valuation
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
11    Public Information
12   Fixation of Compensation
13    Notification
14    Time Lapse for Grievance
15   Release of Funds
16   Transfer of Ownership
17    Payment of Compensation
18   Award of Substations Contract
19   Award of Transmission Contract
20   Supervision
28   Progress Reports
32   Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 1
'ooi



- 78 -                          Anex_1
Page I of 17
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
The technical assistance component of this project aims at improving the sector
operations and performance by transferring technical know-how, building institutional
capacity and supporting sector reforms. It has been designed to (a) address the most
pressing needs of EDC in the domain of project implementation, utility management and
commercial operations, and (b) assist MIME in initiating the reform process conducive
to an autonomous, financially viable power sector open to the private sector. The
proposed assistance will strengthen EDC's technical, managerial, commercial and
financial capabilities.
The technical assistance component has been designed to sustain and complement
the ongoing UNDP/World Bank and ADB's training and management support programs
for EDC and MIME. The project will assist EDC with:
(a)   technical, engineering and training support. Engineering assistance will be
provided in conjunction with the implementation of the project to support the
Project Management Unit (PMU) in procurement, supervision and engineering
activities, and training of EDC personnel on project management (terms of
reference attached);
(b)   commercial operations support. Consultancy services will be provided to
implement the computerization of accounting, billing and collection services and
develop the necessary customer management system; the project will also
continue the specialized technical support in engineering and commercial areas
initiated under the UNDP/World Bank technical assistance project thorugh the
provision of United Nations Volunteers (UNV).
(c)   compensation plan and environmental unit. Consultancy services will be provided
to help EDC implementing the project compensation plan for land acquisition and
to assess and define the scope for establishing an environmental unit within EDC.
The provision of an advisor to EDC's Board of Director, although not funded by the
Credit, is considered an essential part of the power sector reform process. Terms of
reference for that position are also attached.
The component to MIME will include:
(a)   regulatory framework and commercialization study (phase II!. consultancy
services to develop and implement a new regulatory framework consistent with



- 79-                                  Annex13L
Page 2 of 17
the electricity legislation currently under preparation and with the sector structure
envisaged in the phase I of the study (tenns of reference attached);
(b)    advisor to regulatory body. A regulatory expert will assist in the implementation
of the new regulatory framework and will assist in setting up the regulatory body,
starting its operations, advise and train its staff.
(c)    advisor to MIME. An energy advisor will assist the Minister in developing energy
policy, formulating and implementing the Ministry work program, supervising
staff.
(d)    a training program. Basic and advance training in energy economics, resource
management and energy planning will be provided to the staff of the Departmnent
of Energy.
The technical assistance program also includes provision for other unidentified
consultants, as required. The technical assistance will be provided to EDC and MIME
directly, and each institution, will be responsible for administrating the respective
component.
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project:
Technical Assistance Budget (US$ 000)
Consultant    Staff/mont   Total Cost  Local Cost
h
TA to EDC                                                              2,360    236
Engineering and Training    Firm                        1750    175
Commercial Operation Support & UNVs    Individuals    34              350      35
Compensation/Environmental Unit  Indivifual(s)    4               80       8
Other consultants    Individual     9              180     18
TA to MIME                                                              6400     64
Regulation/Commercialization Study   Individual(s)  6              120      12
Advisor to EAC    Individual       5              100     10
Advisor to MIME    Individual      10              200     20
Other consultants    Individual     3               60      6
Training      Firm                         160      16
TOTAL TA                                     3,030    303



- 80 -                           Annex13
Page 3 of 17
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consulting Services for the Project Engineering Services Supervision,
Coordination, Inspection, Monitoring and EDC Staff Training
Terms of Reference
I.   Project Scope
General Information
The Phnom Penh Distribution Rehabilitation Project involves the greater urban area of
Phnom Penh in Cambodia. Distribution in Phnom Penh comprises three electrically
independent systems operated and supplied from four old power stations having an
installed capacity of 73 MW, but only able to supply a maximum demand of 27 MW. The
northern system is supplied from Cl and C4 power stations and the southern system is
supplied from C2 and C3 power stations. The system is unable to meet the present
demand, estimated to be 55 MW, and therefore continuously scheduled load shedding is
enforced.
The existing medium voltage (MV) systems are all underground except for the suburban
perimeters of the city. Underground 15 kV cables were laid more than 25 years ago and
for various reasons are now in a poor and unreliable state. The 6.3 kV system is also old
and in need of replacement. The 4.4 kV system caters for the north-east part of the city,
which has the highest demand density. It has been in operation since the 1930's and is
overdue for replacement.
Project Objective
The objective of the project is to support the power sector rehabilitation, expansion,
restructuring, and institutional development processes which EDC and the Government of
Cambodia (GOC) have initiated. EDC has prepared a four-year transmission and
distribution system rehabilitation, expansion, energy efficiency (loss reduction)
improvement and institutional development for the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). It
gives the objectives to be reached, the actions needed to reach the objectives,
responsibilities for these actions and their timing.
Project Description
The items to be fully financed by IDA are high priority items for the Transmission and
Distribution (T&D) system rehabilitation of the backbone or core network and equipment
of the Phnom Penh area, necessary to improve EDC's institutional performance and to
reduce network losses. The project is expected to include the following components:



- 81 -Annex 13
Page 4 of 17
connection of 30,000 existing and prospective customers;
installations of three 1 15/22/15 kV grid substations;
installation of 100 MVA of 1 15 kV transformer capacity;
installation of about 26 km of single circuit 115 kV transmission line around the
perimeter of Phnom Penh;
installation of 40 MVA of 22 kV distribution substations;
installation of 50 km of underground 22 kV cables;
installation of 50 km of overhead 22 kV circuit;
installation of 300 km of LV bundled conductor;
installation of 20 MVAr of LV capacitor banks;
supply of associated tools and equipment;
construction of equipment storage facilities; and
training of EDC personnel
To further support the execution of the project, the Consulting firm will be required to
provide extensive training program for the EDC personnel, particularly in the field of
modem project implementation coordination, engineering supervision, inspection and
monitoring of construction activities, O&M practices of new tools and equipment,
environmental monitoring, management, and upgrading of existing power plants,
including greater computerization of various activities. The agreed training and
institutional development program, to be financed by the project.
Implementation Arrangement
The Project will be implemented by EDC. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established by EDC and remain in operation and fully staffed throughout execution of the
project. A Project Manager reporting directly to the Deputy Director of Project
Implementation Department (PID) has already been assigned to head the team including
supporting consultants and EDC's Project Officer (PO), other supporting staff will be
appointed shortly.
II.  Summary of Services
The Consulting Firm will assist EDC in the engineering supervision, inspection,
coordination, training, and implementation of the World Bank financed transmission and
distribution (T&D) system rehabilitation and expansion project. The proposed technical
assistance is expected to extend over 30 months for a resident Advisor to EDC's PMU
Manager. In addition, senior Project Officers, one for 115 kV transmission system project
and other one for distribution system rehabilitation programs will be required in-country
for shorter periods. Also, additional non-resident short-term consultants will be provided
by the Consulting Firm in various specialized fields.
The resident Advisor specialized in T&D project management and budget monitoring
will advise the EDC's Project Manager, and Project Officers in all activities related to this



- 82 -                           Annex 11
Page 5 of 17
project implementation program. He will also assist EDC in its Bid document evaluation,
contractor proposal evaluation and selection, on-site construction supervision, monitoring
progress of T&D works and will provide EDC staff training as required.
EDC's staff shall participate actively in all stage in the implementation of this project,
with supervision of the consultants, the objective being to develop EDC's institutional
capability for the engineering supervision and management of T&D projects.
III. Scope of Consulting Services
The Consulting Firm shall provide all services necessary for the fulfillment of the
objectives discussed above in Section II. The principal responsibilities of the resident
Advisor, assisted by the consulting firm's home office include, among others, the
following:
a)   Review of Bid Documents
The Consulting Firm shall review all Bid Documents prepared by EDC. These ICB
documents shall incorporate all Bank's rules and regulations and schedules for EDC's
approval.
b)   Evaluation of Bids and Implementation of the Project
The Consulting Firm shall assist EDC in the evaluation of bids to perform the
recommended work for the Project and prepare a contract documents covering each
component of work. The Consulting Firm shall also manage the contract and shall furnish
resident construction management advisor/personnel on each project component. The
project is to be completed thirty months after contract award to the Consulting Firm. In
addition, the scope of services provided by the consultant shall include but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
-    Assist EDC with answering of inquiries from bidders during the tendering phase,
evaluation of tenders and contract negotiations;
-    Assist EDC with the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) to
monitor the progress of this project and provide project management training for
EDC staff assigned to the unit;
-    Assist EDC with the purchase of substation sites and securing of rights-of-way for
construction of the 1 15 kV line and distribution lines and substations;
-    Assist EDC with construction supervision;



- 83 -                             Annex3
Page 6 of 17
In particular, the Consulting Firm shall:
a)   assist EDC with expediting the procurement and construction
program to ensure the timely completion of the project;
b)   review and approve manufacturer's drawings and designs including designs
for the 115 kV substations and transmission line;
c)   carry out factory inspections, witness factory tests and approve shipping
arrangements, packaging, etc.;
d)   help to expedite local transport and delivery arrangements;
e)   provide guidance to EDC to ensure that the procurement actions are carried
out in accordance with the requirements of the World Bank; and
f)   advice EDC on any modifications needed at existing installations for the
proper functioning of the project works (e.g. modifications to neutral
earthing, protection relays, protection settings or the like).
The Consulting Firm shall also assist EDC with the following:
a)   pre-qualification of contractors for installation of the distribution equipment;
b)   selection of overhead line and underground cable routes and distribution
substation sites;
c)   identification of suitable sites for pole mounted equipment (load-break
switches, distribution transformers, etc.);
d)   field survey and production of distribution construction drawings;
e)   preparation of staking sheets, bills of quantity and construction packages for
bidding by pre-qualified contractors;
f)   approval of pole positions for the 115 kV transmission line and checking of
field test results;
g)   coordination of construction activities, including coordination with the take-
over of electrical energy wholesaling arrangements in the areas being
rehabilitated;
h)   mapping of the rehabilitated work, including recording of the location of
customer service connections and other data required for the commercial
operations of EDC;
i)   review of as-built records; and
j)    preparation of construction and maintenance manuals.
The Consulting Firm shall identify in consultation with EDC further transmission
and distribution requirements for Bank funding. When instructed by the Bank and
EDC, the consultant shall then proceed to assist EDC with preparation of a further
project for Bank funding.
The Consulting Firm shall assist EDC with design, procurement and
implementation of certain environmental impact mitigation works, including the
installation of fire and safety works, at EDC's existing power stations as



- 84-                            Anex13
Page 7 of 17
documented under the provision of Technical Assistance for preparation of the
Project.
c)   Training Services
At every phase of this Project activities, the Consulting Firm shall arrange for the training
of EDC staff on T&D project construction management, supervision, operation and
maintenance and will ensure that all vendors provide adequate training on all new tools
and equipment procured/installed during the project. The training program shall include
training in network operations and maintenance, including the operation of the 115 kV
system to ensure that the full benefits of load dispatch and power system management are
achieved. In addition, the Consulting Firm provide training for:
-    survey and mapping works;
-    checking and approval of contractors' designs;
-    factory inspection and witnessing of tests;
-    expediting of shipping, local delivery and unpacking;
-    processing of contractor's payments in accordance with Bank procedures;
-    coordination, engineering supervision, inspection and monitoring of construction
activities;
-    establishing, arranging, checking and reviewing field tests; and
-    general contract administration.
To this end, the consultant shall propose and implement a comprehensive program of on-
and off-the-job training in all aspects of the work. This program shall be reported on the
monthly reports from the consultant to EDC and EDC's quarterly reports to the Bank.
d)   Work Program Development
Prepare within one month, and in collaboration with EDC's Deputy Director of project, a
detailed work program to achieve the objectives of the project as well as the criteria to
evaluate the contractor's and EDC's performance in the implementation of the project.
IV. Reporting
In addition to the reports on tender evaluations, factory inspections, testing, etc., the
consultant shall report monthly to the Director of EDC and assist in preparing EDC's
quarterly report to the Bank on the progress being made. The consultant shall present a
final report to EDC and the Bank on completion of the services.



- 85 -                           Annex 13
Page 8 of 17
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Advisor to EDC's Board of Directors
Terms of Reference
I. Background
Electricity supply in Cambodia is responsibility of Electricite du Cambodge
(EDC), a nationwide utility controlled by the Ministry of Industry Mines and Energy
(MIME). The Government is willing to undertake a reform of the power sector aimed at
achieving a more efficient operation and development, open to private sector
participation. As a first step, the Government committed to establishing EDC as an
autonomous corporation by 1995. MIME, with the support of the World Bank, is in the
process of drafting the legal documents establishing EDC as an autonomous company
and providing the general principles under which the power sector will operate.
Accordingly, EDC will be established as a state-owned corporation with limited liability,
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of electric power through the
country. The company will operate as a commercial business, and will have a Board of
Directors composed by representatives of the Government and the business community.
II. Objective
EDC has required technical assistance to implement the restructuring envisaged
above. The main objective of this assignment is to (a) assist the Board of Directors in
performing its tasks during the first year of operation and advise the Board on the
company management and policy decisions; and (b).assist the Director General in
implementing  the Board's directives and other administration and management
responsibilities.
III. Job Description
(1)   The advisor is expected to assist and facilitate the work of the Board of Directors
during its first year of operations. This would include:
provide advice to the Board members on the Board functions, roles and
responsibilities;
facilitate discussions among the Board members;



- 86 -                          Annex 13
Page 9 of 17
assist the Board in deciding on relevant issues under their responsibility such as:
help formulate and decide on EDC's business and investment plans;
advise on the implementation of the corporate plan and the performance
contract established between EDC and MIME;
assist in evaluating and deciding on annual financial budgets, company
accounts, profit distribution plans, financial requirements, changes in
EDC's registered capital, modification of the company structure and
organization;
advise on personnel issues;
help develop EDC's regulations governing the management and operation
of EDC.
(2)   The advisor is also expected to assist the Director General on all priority matters
concerning the implementation of the Board directives and on day-to-day management.
This would include:
-     help prepare EDC's Corporate Plan, the company annual budget and all other
written report regarding the performance and operations of the company to be
submitted to the Board of Directors;
-     assist in implementing decisions of the Board of Directors;
-     assist in formulating internal guidelines and rules of the company;
-     help implement the plan for the internal management organization, particularly as
concerns personnel employment and remuneration policies;
-     advise on technical, commercial, legal operations designed to accomplish the
company purposes;
-     assist in coordinating and facilitating the work of the department directors and
senior managers.
The Advisor will report to the Board of Directors.
The Advisor should have extensive corporate management experience, as director
general or equivalent and a broad-based operational experience in a power utility. The
assignment will be for one year.



- 87 -                          -Annex l3
Page 10 of 17
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Land Acquisition and Compensation and Establishing Environmental
Management Capabilities
Terms of Reference
I.    Background
Electricity generation in Cambodia is in small isolated systems. The largest
system (85% of national consumption) is in Phnom Penh. Only 32MW of a total of
71MW installed capacity are available in the city. Phnom Penh demand is estimated at
85MW, and assuming a moderate economic growth, electricity consumption is expected
to reach 100MW during 1996 and 150 MW by the year 2000. The need to alleviate
critical power shortages in Phnom Penh is immediate and urgent. The objective of the
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project is to provide the transmission and distribution
capacity necessary to a satisfactory standard of electricity supply in the southern and
western greater urban area of Phnom Penh and to meet the expected growth in demand
over the period 1995-1998.
Two components of the project involve land acquisition, and compensation and
may originate resettlement issues during implementation: (i) a 23 km long right-of-way
for the 115 kV (high voltage) transmission line; and (ii) two 115/22 kV grid substation
(GS2 and GS3). The substation site for GS3 will involve the acquisition of about 8,000
square meters of privately owned land, and will affect nine households. The substation
site for GS2 is located on unoccupied, presently submerged, government land. Access
road for this site requires the acquisition of 1,350 square meters, affecting four
households. Although the scale of land acquisition is small, the compensation issue
proves difficult to be addressed because of the lack or weaknesses of land
acquisition/expropriation legislation and registration system, and the very little
experience or training of both local government and EDC on these matters.
On a more general level, Cambodia lacks a set of environmental policies and the
capacity to manage environmental issues. The process of developing environmental
legislation and creating institutions is still at an early stage. The lack of environmental
institutions within EDC and the Ministry of Mines and Energy, legislation and manpower
reflects directly on the utility's operations, which are currently planned on the basis of
The Project Implementation Unit, which will be established as part of the technical assistance component
of the project, will be responsible for carrying out all activities related to the land acquisition and
compensation plan.



- 88 -                            Annex 13
Page 11 of 17
techno-economic considerations, without or with minor considerations for impacts on
resettlements and degradation of natural resources.
II.   Objective
The objective of the proposed technical assistance (TA) is twofold: (i) assist and
support the land acquisition and compensation procedures related to project
implementation; and (ii) assist EDC in establishing environmental management
capabilities and corporate environmental policies.
The first objective will be achieved by assisting EDC in the preparation of a Due
Process Manual for Land Acquisition, Compensation and rehabilitation, assessing the
need for remedial actions and drawing lessons for future EDC's land acquisition
operations. The second objective will be achieved by preparing a plan for setting up and
developing an environrmental unit within EDC.
III.   Scope of Work
Land Acquisition and Compensation
The consultants will carry out:
(i)   assist in the preparation of a Due Process Manual, specifying guidelines for the
implementation of the compensation plan. The manual must clarify, inter alia, the
definition of such concepts as 'affected' and 'displaced' person, define all types of
losses/impacts covered by the policy, the corresponding entitlements and entitled
persons, and the mechanism for the land-for-land option. The manual must also
prescribe the procedures of registration, verification, quantification and valuation
of such losses/impacts, and how to determine/negotiate and deliver the
entitlements;
(ii)   assess the need for staff, organizational responsibility, training and equipment for
ensuring institutional capacity in EDC for dealing with land acquisition and
compensation issues; and
(iii) prepare a plan for institutional capacity regarding land acquisition, compensation
and rehabilitation, based on the above assessment.
The monitoring and evaluation of the land acquisition and compensation should
be carried out by local consultants as prescribed in the plan, and be reported to the TA
consultant, who will report to IDA.



- 89 -                           Annex 13
Page 12 of 17
EDC's Environmental Unit Development Plan
The consultant would be responsible for preparing a development plan of the
environmental unit to be established within EDC, for the first three years of operations.
The plan will include, but not limit to, the following:
(i)   identify a set of priority objectives and activities for EDC  management, with
specific performance criteria for each activity;
(ii)   prepare a staffing plan for hiring skilled environmental staff;
(iii)  design a training program for all levels of the environmental unit covering
environmental management. natural resources, pollution control, monitoring R&R
and community development data collection and processing, EIA preparation,
safety and environmental audit and legal aspects and government regulations;
(iv)   prepare a financial plan setting out the costs of routine environmental
management activities, purchase, installation and operation of pollution control
technology, costing of training activities.
Prior to preparing the development plan, the consultant would survey the
regulatory framework for pollution control in the energy sector in Cambodia, and would
identify key existing regulations and possible gaps therein. Such survey, together with the
technical assessment of key issues, would be the basis for identifying the priority
objectives and activities of the environmental unit.
The assignment will require about 10 staff-weeks. The exact amount of work in
the field should be agreed with the World Bank and approved by EDC. The consultant
will prepare a report summarizing findings and recommendations along the above lines.
The report will be submitted to EDC and the World Bank for review along with all the
data collected and analyses carried out.
The consultants expertise should include: sociology resettlement and
rehabilitation, corporate environmental management, computerized data management,
office management, and training.



- 90 -                           Annex 13
Page 13 of 17
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Power Sector Regulatory Framework
and Commercialization Study
Terms of Reference
I.    Background
Cambodia's power sector is in a situation of crisis characterized by severe power
shortages, high energy losses, poor cash collections, weak management and an
unmotivated labor force. Electricity supply is responsibility of Electricite du Cambodge
(EDC), a nationwide utility reporting to, and under strict control of, the Ministry of
Industry Mines and Energy (MIME). EDC's financial situation constitutes a serious
constraint for an efficient operation of the power system and a burden to public finances.
Electricity tariffs are relatively high but with high production costs, high technical and
non technical losses, and a poor collection record, EDC runs a large cash deficit which is
covered by Ministry of Finance contributions. The current organization of the energy
sector provides for a dual role for the state (MIME) as both policy maker and regulator,
and operator. This implies a conflict of functions that prevents an efficient operation of
power utilities on a commercial basis. MIME is aware of this situation and is willing to
undertake a reform being committed to establish EDC as an autonomous corporation by
1995. The Government is also interested in promoting private sector participation as a
way of mobilizing additional financial resources and inducing efficiency. MIME, with the
support of the World Bank, has started the process of drafting the legal documents which
will establish EDC as an autonomous company, and will provide the general principles
under which the power sector will operate. To create the enabling environment for an
efficient development and operation of the power sector, and to attract private sector
participation, it will be necessary to set up a suitable legal and regulatory framework to
define clearly the role of MIME, its relationship with EDC and EDC's functions and
responsibilities, as well as to introduce efficiency incentives, while protecting the
interests of investors and consumers. This requires an examination, and subsequent
reform, of the sector structure and EDC's organization.
II.   Objective
The main objective of the study is to help the Government of Cambodia increase
sector efficiency by defining and implementing a suitable structure for the power sector,
and promoting participation of the private sector. The study is aimed at helping the sector
to become financially autonomous, thus reducing previous burden imposed on
Government's finances, develop decentralized and eventually privately owned utilities,
and support a competitive self-sustained process of economic growth. To this end the



-91 -                              Annex l3
Page 14 of 17
study will support the Government in defining options for sector structure and regulatory
framework, and the formulation of an action plan for establishing EDC as an autonomous
corporation. This will require:
-     evaluation of options for restructuring the power sector taking into account
relevant experience in countries that have undergone reforms in the power sector;
-     designing an organization for EDC consistent with the proposed sector structure;
-     formulating an action plan for the commercialization of EDC;
-     establishing a regulatory framework aimed at providing incentives for an efficient
and reliable supply of electricity at least cost, attract foreign capital, and promote
efficient operation.
III.   Scope of Work
The study will be undertaken in two phases. Phase I would (i) review the existing
power sector organization, legal and regulatory arrangements; (ii) identify Government
objectives for the sector; (iii) assess options for restructuring the sector to achieve
government objectives; and (iv) develop a strategy and implementation plan for the
proposed structure and ommercialization of EDC. Phase II would comprise the
preparation of a new regulatory frarnework and a plan for its implementation.
Phase I - Proposed Organizational Structure and Commercialization Plan
For Phase I of the study the consultants will be expected to perform the following
tasks:
(i)    discuss Government's power sector objectives;
(ii)   review  current status of the power sector based on available studies and
information from other sources, including the following aspects:
-     laws and institutional arrangements for regulation and operation of the
sector;
-     current organization of power entities, including their legal status and
organization;
-     staffing and management of existing power entities;
-     existing current commercial and accounting practices;
relative roles of other producers or distributors in Cambodia, such as
captive power, "wholesalers", village electric organizations;



- 92 -                            Annex1
Page 15 of 17
(iii) based on the experience of other countries, assess alternative organizational
structures for the Cambodian power sector. The following aspects should be
considered:
-     ownership options for generation, transmission and distribution;
-     role of independent power producers;
-     extent of vertical or horizontal integration needed to achieve the
Government's objectives;
-     evaluation of pros and cons of different structural arrangements, and
propose most suitable structure;
approaches for the provision of power services in provincial and rural
areas;
(iv)   based on the recommended structure of section (iii), propose a suitable
organization for EDC taking into account the following:
-     role and degree of autonomy of the utility, specially for setting salaries and
employment conditions and procurement;
-     define in detail the organizational structure and functions of each
department;
-     review  the job descriptions of all line management positions and
recommend appropriate changes;
-     review draft performance contract between MIME and EDC and propose
recommendations for its effective implementation;
(v)   develop an implementation plan for the commercialization of EDC with public
ownership, including detailed time tables and an action plan, and define the
following aspects:
-     separation of finances including the transfer of existing assets and
liabilities to the new entity;
-     develop detailed specifications adopting fully new commercial approaches
including the application of international accounting and auditing
standards;
-     review the 10 years financial projections for EDC as an autonomous
corporation;
-     staffing implications, specially any issues with respect to: salaries and
compensation conditions, pension arrangements, redundancy provisions,
and the formulation of a staff reduction program coordinated with a
program for promoting local private participation in sector activities;
prepare a development plan for the process of commercialization of EDC
(i.e. reorganization of the entity into an autonomous company responsible
for its investment and operation decisions), including an identification of
required legal and regulatory measures.



- 93 -                            Annex 13
Page 16 of 17
Phase II - Regulatory Framework
Based on the recommended structure for the power sector, the consultant should provide
a detailed outline of the required regulatory regime. In doing so, the following points
would be addressed:
-     identify the regulatory institutional arrangements necessary to address the sector
needs;
-     propose the relationship between the regulatory body and the existing government
entities;
-     define tariff setting principles and tariff mechanisms to encourage efficient
allocation of resources, energy conservation and financial self-sufficiency, while
responding to the needs of consumers;
-     define principles and mechanisms for pooling, energy dispatching and wheeling;
-     recommend functions of the regulator with respect to: provision of reliable
supply, licensing, safety, environment protection and dispute resolution;
-     define procedures for the approval and selection of proposals for private power
generation;
prepare detailed guidelines and procedures for each of the foregoing functions,
identifying the criteria, periodicity, participants and procedures to be involved in
ratemaking and investment proposals;
-     determine the rights and obligations of the power sector entities vis-a-vis the
regulatory institution, to other governmental entities and to the public;
-     propose modifications to existing legislation and procedures to implement the
recommended regulatory framework;
-     prepare drafts of new laws and regulations required for establishing the regulatory
framework;
-     propose an action plan for the implementation of the regulatory framework.
IV.   Organization of the Study
The study would be conducted by a consultant(s) with extensive practical
experience in the restructuring, regulation and commercialization of public enterprises,
including the power sector. The following expertise should be available:
-     power sector regulation and pricing;
-     utility finances, operation and maintenance;
-     personnel management;
-     commercialization and corporatization of public enterprises;
-     legal aspects of power regulation, commercialization and corporatization.
It is expected that the consultant will work closely with a task force to be set-up in
MIME. At the conclusion of each phase, study results and recommendations will be
presented in a seminar. Throughout the study the consultant(s) should report to MIME
and the World Bank.



- 94 -                           Annex 13
Page 17 of 17
V.    Reports and Timetable
Phase I
Draft report to be discussed with Government officials in one-day seminar: 90
days;
Review and comments of MIME and World Bank: 15 days;
Final report: 30 days.
phase 1I
Draft report to include proposal for discussion with Govermment officials in one-
day seminar: 100 days;
Review and comments of MIME and World Bank: 15 days;
Final report including draft laws and regulations: 50 days.



- 95 -                                 Annex 14
Page 1 of 9
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
EDC Finances
Table 14.1: Estimated Traig Results 1989-1994, M  Rls
Item             1989     1990     1991     1992      1993      1994
Electricity sales         407    1,140    5,833   16,926    16,818   24,037
Other revenue               29       41      124      364        73       240
Total Revenue            436    1,181    5,957   17,289    16,891   24,277
Operating Expenses
Fuel & oil                 553    1,212    5,344   13,011    26,403    22,164
Operations &                72      147      558    1 511      2,280     1 994
Maintenance
Depreciation                34       35      178      178        196    9,350
Staff costs                26        91      213      495       612       663
Turnover tax                                          403       339       243
Bad debts                                                                 375
Total Operating          686    1,485    6,293   15,598    29,830   34,789
Expenses
Operating Profit         -250      -304     -336    1,691   -12,939   -10,512
Interest                   38        56       79       33         -6
Exchange Loss(Gain)                            5     -110        -55
Net Profit              -288      -361     -419    1,768   -12,878   -10,512
Bad debts and Government subsidies are not included in the above figures
Riels/dollar         |    268 |    537 |    818|  1,520 |  2,275 |  2,550|



- 96 -                                     Annex 14
Page 2 of 9
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 14.2: Estimated Balance Sheets 1993-1994, Mrls
Years Ending 31 December            1993            1994
Assets                 Reconstructed
Fixed Assets
Plant at Cost/Valuation                      254,907         258,911
Depreciation Provision                      205,650          215,000
Filed Assets in Service                      49,257          43,911
Current Assets
Cash & Bank                                     753
Inventories                                    2,852           3,313
Receivables                                    5,504           14,711
Prepayments etc                                 861              904
Total Current Assets                          9,970          18,927
Total Assets          M Rls                   59,227          62,838
Equity & Liabilities
Equity
Capital                                       56,987          56,987
Grant Capital                                                  3,900
Retained Profit                                               -10,511
New Capital
Total Owner's Funds                 56,987           50,376
Current Liabilities
Short term borrowing                            662            9,078
Proven for Income Tax & Dividend
Accounts payable                               1,577           3,384
Total Current Liabilities                    2 ,239          12,462
Total Liabilities                  2,239           12,462
Total Equity & Liabilities M Ris              59,227          62,838



-97-                                Annex 14
Page 3 of 9
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 14.3: Sources of Capital Funds 1995-2003k
Source              MRiels    k$ @ Ris
3300
Long Term Credits
IDA Nol                        109,865      33,292
IDA No2                          1,196         363
Asian Development Bank          38,597       11,696
Total Long Term Loans          149,659      45,351
Soft Loans (Grants)
IDA Emergency Credit            35,780       10,843
Asia Development Bank E. C.     53,279       16,145
Total Soft Credits (Grants)     89,059      26,988
Foreign Grants
JICA                            48,466       14,687
EDF France                      10,371       3,143
Austria                         35,010       10,609
Ireland/Belgium                 10,322       3,128
Sweden                          35,010      10,609
Total Foreign Grants           139,179      42,176
Local capital inputs            54,564       16,534
Total Capital Financing        432,461      131,049
All Credits and Grants considered in this table have
already been secured or are part of projects/programs
under preparation.



- 98 -                             Annex l4
Page 4 of 9
Financial Planning Assumptions
1.   The balance sheet at I January 1994 is reconstructed in accordance with commercial
principles and opening balances derived from EDC's books adjusted or
consolidated.'  Fixed assets have been capitalised at 1994 valuation.  Generally
accepted accounting principles are followed thereafter.
2.   Sales and load projections and plant procurement plans are as made by EDC
consultants and presented in Annex 2.
3.   Riels are converted to $US at 2600=$1.00 in 1994 and at the following rates in
subsequent years: 2902, 3128, 3296, 3376, 3459, 3543, 3630, 3718, and in 2003,
3809.
4.   Domestic inflation is put at 10.5 per cent in 1995, 8 per cent in 1996 and 5 per cent
per annum in all subsequent years. International inflation is taken at 2.5 per cent
per annum all years.  Fuel prices and indexed components of IPP contracts are
assumed to change in line with international inflation.
5.   Revenue yield per kWh sold is based on the actual mix of sales and revenue for
October-December 1994 and is increased (a) over FYs 1996-2000 as distribution is
progressively taken over from wholesalers as the network is rehabilitated and (b)
according to international inflation for as long as necessary to achieve a target return
of eight per cent on average fixed assets in service.
6.   For calculation of fuel and purchased power costs, loads have been dispatched to
generating plants in merit order, commencing with fPP's and other new plants after
despatching not less than 10 per cent of the average annual requirement to EdC
plant. Capacity ratings and availabilities have been adjusted to reflect the condition
of existing plant and future wear and tear. EdC is assumed to retain ownership of
existing stations; some plant is moved from C2D to C3.
7.   IPP costs have been based on the contract for the No. I plant but for Nos. 2 and 3,
the capacity charge is assumed to be fixed. The table sets out the assumed costs
per kW per month of available capacity.
Plant      Commissioned        Initial $/lW/month    2003 $/kW/month
No. 1           FY 1996               25.84               30.72
No. 2           FY 1999               25.05               25.05
No. 3           FY 2002               26.97               26.97
Any prior balances between Government entities are assumed to be written off; and any old
balances which should be paid to or collected from other bodies are assumed to be the
responsibility of the organisation under which they were incurred.



99...                           Annex 14
Page 5 of 9
8.   Additions to fixed assets are at estimated current values and are assumed to be
commissioned progressively during the years of expenditure. In addition to known
projects the following other amounts (in 1995 prices) have been included in the
projected capital expenditure:
-    $8 million for completion of rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution
system in FYs 1998-2000
-    $2 million for construction of a new grid substation in FYs 1988-1999
-    $85 per new connection in FYs 1997 and 1998
-    $340 per kVA of annual increased peak load from FY 1999 for augmentation
and reinforcement of the network
9.   The financing schedule sets out expected and identified sources of external finance
and the balance remaining. $5 million of the WB credit is advanced in 1995 and
treated as equity, the remainder is treated as long term debt. Other 'toft" loans and
grants have been treated as equity.
10.  Operations and maintenance expense is provided at one per cent of opening fixed
assets at replacement cost rising to 1.8 per cent and escalated in accordance with
international inflation. (New assets are capitalised at the values current in the year
of commissioning but are not revalued during the forecast period.)
11.  Staff costs are directly estimated for 1996 allowing for resumption of LV
distribution and billing and subsequent growth and escalation are provided for at 10
per cent per annum. (Total employees at the end of FY 1994 were 1177.)
12.  Bad debts are allowed at 2.5 per cent of revenue in FY 1994 declining to one per
cent by 1998 and thereafter.
13.  Long term loans from ADB are assumed to be onlent at 7.5 per cent and repaid over
15 years after five grace years. WB loans are assumed to be at 10 per cent and
repayable on the same terms. Short term cash balances or borrowings are assumed
to earn or incur interest at 12 and 18 per cent per annum respectively.
14.  Working capital other than trade debtors:  fuel, one month's supply;  O&M
materials, three months' usage; prepayments, opening balance x 1.05; creditors,
1.5 months' nonwage cash expenditure plus taxes.
Trade debtors are approx. 7.3 months' average revenue at 31 December 1994; they
are assumed to be brought down in successive years to 6.5, 5.5, 4.5, 3.5, 2.5, and 2
months by 2000 and to be maintained at not more than 2 months' thereafter.
15.  Asset lives for valuation and depreciation are:
-    generation plant and institutional assets, 25 years
-    transmission and distribution systems, 40 years
-  4 head office buildings and associated assets, 20 years



-100-                                Annex 14
Page 6 of 9
miscellaneous plant and equipment, seven years.
16.  The following payments to Government have been provided for in addition to any
taxes and duties levied on fuel and materials at date of projections:
-    turnover tax at one per cent of electricity revenue
-    income tax at nine per cent of net income, commencing when all past years
losses have been recouped
-    dividends equal to 60% of net income (profit) after tax once past years' losses
are recouped.



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 14.4: Financial Statements 1989-2003
Income Statements
M Ris
Years ending 31 December                                1994         1995         1996         1997         1998           1999         2000         2001         2002         2003
International inflation                 % pa                         2.5%         2.5%         2.5%         2.5%           2.5%         2.5%         2.5%         2.5%         2.5%
Domestic inflation                     % pa                         10.5%         8.0%         5.0%         5.0%           5.0%         5.0%         5.0%         5.0%         5.0%
Exchange rate                          Rls/S           2,600        2,902        3,128        3,296        3,376          3,459        3,543        3,630        3,718        3,809
Generation                             GWh              114.8        163.3         59.0         29.3         81.0          73.4         87.9         99.4        109.3         116.5
Station consumption                   GWh                6.3          9.0          3.2          1.6         4.5            4.0          4.8          5.5          6.0           6.4
Sent out                               GWh              108.5        154.4         55.8         27.7         76.5          69.4         83.0         93.9        103.3         110.1
Purchases                               GWh                                       146.4        248.9        254.0         317.5        361.9        405.5        442.8         470.2
Energy available                        GWh             108.5        154.4        202.2        276.6        330.5         386.9        445.0        499.5        546.1         580.3
Distributionlosses(EDC)              %Avail           24.2%        24.4%        21.2%        19.1%        16.9%          15.4%        15.5%        15.5%        15.5%        14.7%
ditto                   GWh              26.3         37.7        42.87        52.83        55.85          59.58        68.8          77.4        84.8          85.1
Sales                                  GWh               82.2        116.7        159.3        223.8        274.8         327.4        376.1        422.1        461.3         495.2
Average revenue yield                 S/kWhS          0.11241      0.12546      0.13564      0.14624     0.15729        0.16881      0.18080      0.18080      0.18080       0.18080
ditto                 Rls/kWhS           292          364          424          482          531            584         641           656         672           689
Average purchase price               Rls/kWhP                                      284          329         342            385          431          425          478           534          1
ditto                /oRs/kWhS                                   85.0%        88.3%        79.3%          78.5%        79.6%        76.7%        84.2%        90.9%          -
Total Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                0
Electricity sales                                     24,037       42,506       67,589      107,860      145,904        191,190      240,928      277,000      310,093      341,028
Other revenue                                            240          425          676        1,079        1,459          1,912        2,409        2,770        3,101        3,410
Total Revenue                          M Ris          24,277       42,931       68,265      108,939      147,364        193,102      243,337      279,770      313,194      344,438
Operating Expenses
Power purchases                                                                  41,621       81,931       86,984        122,275     155,896       172,397     211,807       251,205
Fuel & oil                                             22,164       30,420       10,042        5,376       15,616         3,510        6,765         9,679      12,474        14,883
Operatiors & Maintenance                                1,994        2,654        3,971        7,710        9,661         12,508       14,415       16,139      16,810        17,417
Depreciation                                            9,350       10,256       14,073       18,590       21,706        22,964       24,717        25,512      25,602        25,639
Staff costs                                              663         1,683        2,815        3,097        3,406         3,747        4,122        4,534        4,987         5,486
Turnover tax                            1%               243          429          683         1,089        1,474          1,931       2,433        2,798        3,132         3,444
Bad debts                                                375         1,073        1,365        1,634        1,474          1,931       2,433         2,798       3,132         3,444
Total Operating Expenses               M Rls           34,788       46,515       74,570      119,427      140,321        168,867     210,781      233,855      277,944       321,519
Operating Profit                                      -10,511       -3,584       -6,305      -10,489        7,042        24,235       32,556       45,915       35,250        22,919
Interestoncashbalances             -ve=expense                       -708         1,569        1,692                       -796        2,517         6,810       9,049        10,158
Interest expense (Debt Capital)    -veexpense                                    -624        -4,383       -9,762        -13,207       -3,343      -12,108      -10,846       -9,584
Nettprofitbeforetax                                   -10,511       -4,292       -5.360      -13,180       -2,719         10,232      31,729       40,618       33,453        23,493
Income tax                              9%                                                                                             2,856         3,656       3,011         2,114
Tax Paid Profit                                       -10,511       -4,292       -5,360      -13,180       -2,719         10,232      28,874        36,962      30,442        21,379
Dividend                                60%                                                                                                         22,177       18,265       12,827
Retained Profit                        M Rls          -10,511       -4,292       -5,360      -13,180       -2,719         10,232      28,874        14,785       12,177        8,552
CDt
CDX



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 14.4: Financial Statements 1989-2003
Balance Sheets
M Rls
Years Ending 31 December            1993         1994        1995         1996        1997         1998          1999         2000        2001         2002         2003
Assets                Reconsbumcfd
Fixed Assets
PlantatCostNValuation                  254,907     258,911      314,990      477,325     583,503      614,199       690,541      754,267      766,497     774,775      780,347
Depreciation Provision                205,650      215,000      225,255     239,328      257,918     279,624        302,588     327,305      352,817     378,419      404,058
Fixed Assets in Service                49,257      43,911       89,734      237,997     325,585      334,574       387,952      426,962     413,681      396,356      376,289
Current Assets
Cash&Bank                                 753                     1,819       24,336       3,856                                  43,258       70,250      80,570       88,734
Inventories                              2,852       3,313        3,198        1,830       2,376        3,717         3,420        4,167        4,841       5,242        5,594
Receivables                              5,504       14,711      23,254       31,288      40,852       42,981        40,230       40,556       46,628      52,199       57,406
Prepayments etc                           861          904         949          996        1,046        1,098         1,153        1,211        1,272       1,335        1,402
Total Current Assets                    9,970       18,927      29,221       58,450      48,130       47,796        44,802       89,193      122,991     139,346      153,136
Total Assets        MRIs                59,227      62,838      118,955      296,447     373,715      382,370       432,755      516,155      536,672     535,702      529,425          1
Equity & Liabilities                                                                                                                                                           0
Capital                                 56,987       56,987      56,987       56,987      56,987       56,987        56,987       56,987       56,987      56,987       56,987
Grant Capital                                        3,900       54,015      162,118      162,118     162,118       196,708      232,138     232,138      232,138      232,138
Retained Profit                                     (10,511)    (14,803)     (20,163)     (33,343)    (36,062)      (25,830)       3,044       17,829      30,006       38,557
New Capital                                                      11,173       27,282      27,282       27,282        27,282       54,564       54,564      54,564       54,564
Total Owner's Funds            56,987       50,376      107,372     226,225      213,045     210,325        255,147     346,733      361,518     373,695      382,246
Long Term Liabilities                                               386       42,891     135,385      146,025       149,659      136,162      122,666     109,169       95,672
Curent Liabilities
Short term borrowing                      662        9,078                                              7,966           878
Provn for Incme Tax & Dividend                                                                                                     2,856       25,833      21,276       14,942
Accounts payable                         1,577        3,384      11,198       27,332      25,286       18,054        27,071       30,404       26,655      31,563       36,565
Total Current Liabilities               2,239       12,462      11,198       27,332      25,286       26,020        27,949       33,260       52,488      52,838       51,507
Total Liabilities             2,239       12,462       11,584      70,222      160,670     172,045        177,607     169,422      175,154     162,008      147,179
Total Equity & Liabilities MRIs         59,227       62,838     118,955      296,447     373,715      382,370       432,755      516,155      536,672     535,702      529,425
1t



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 14.4: Financial Statements 1989-2003
Funds Flow Statements
M Rls
1994        1995         1996         1997         1998          1999         2000         2001        2002          2003
Sources of Funds
Intemal Sources
Operating income + depreciation                       (1,162)      6,672        7,768        8,101      28,748         47,200       57,273       71,427      60,852        48,559
Interest eaned                                                      (708)       1,569        1,692                       (796)       2,517        6,810       9,049        10,158
Internally Generated Funds            MRIs           (1,162)       5,964       9,337        9,793       28,748        46,404       59,789       78,237       69,901       58,717
Grants                                                3,900       50,115      108,104                                  34,590       35,430
Capital contribution                                              11,173       16,109                                               27,282
Long term borrowing                                                  386       42,505       92,494       10,640         3,634
Capital Funds                         M Rls           3,900      61,673       166,718      92,494       10,640         38,224      62,712
Total Funds Available                  M Ris          2,738       67,637      176,055      102,287       39,389        84,628      122,501       78,237      69,901        58,717
Application of Funds                                                                                                                                                              _
M Rls          4,004       56,079      162,336      106,178       30,696        76,342       63,727       12,230        8,277        5,572          0
Debt Servicing
Interet expense                                                                 624        4,383        9,762        13,207        3,343       12,108       10,846        9,584
Principal                                                                                                                         13,497       13,497       13,497       13,497
Total Debt Service                     M Rk                                       624        4,383        9,762        13,207       16,840       25,605      24,343        23,081
Tax & Dividend paid                                                                                                                               2,856      25,833        21,276
Change innoncashsworking capital                      7,903          661       (9,421)      12,206       10,754       (12,011)      (2,202)      10,556        1,128         624
Change in cash balancea                               (9,169)     10,897       22,516      (20,479)     (11,823)        7,089       44,136       26,991       10,320        8,164
Change in Working Capital              M Ris          (1,266)     11,558       13,095       (8,274)      (1,069)        (4,922)     41,935       37,547       11,448        8,788
Total Funds Applied                   M Rls           2,738      67,637      176,055      102,287       39,389        84,628      122,501       78,237       69,901       58,717
I..'.



- 104 -                               Annex 15
Page 1 of 6
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER RERABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.    The economic rate of return is calculated on the basis of the incremental economic cost
and benefit strearns associated with the project. The cost stream comprises: (a) investment in the
115 kV line and 115/22 kV substations under the project; (b) investments in the downstream
distribution network to support the demand growth and refurbishment of the existing system; (c)
incremental cost of energy purchased from IPP suppliers and produced by EDC's own plant
associated with the project; and (d) incremental operation, maintenance, billing and administration
costs due to the project. No shadow price was used for foreign exchange since the exchange rate
is set by the market. The principal benefit stream is associated with incremental electricity sales to
be supplied by the project. Additional benefits arise from the reduction of technical losses, and
improvements in the reliability of the system as a whole. All costs and benefits remain constant in
real terms (1994 values).
2.    The flow of incremental electricity demand is computed for six years, with a one-year time
lag after commencement of the first investment. The incremental demand is then served through
to the end of the economic life of the investment, which is 35 years from the commissioning of the
last item. The average growth rate of electricity demand is estimated at 28% p.a. for 1994-1999,
as the system is rehabilitated and suppressed demand is taken up, and 10% p.a. for 2000-2004.
Electricity sales are valued at the present average retail tariff of UScentsl6/kWh, ignoring
consumer surplus. The improvement in the system reliability is valued as reduced unserved
energy at UScents 1 8/kWh, which is the estimated cost of self-generation in Phnom Penh, and is
applied to total sales. Technical losses are assumed to decline from 14% to 8.6%. The reduction
in non-technical losses is assumed to be replaced gradually by legitimate consumption, and is
incorporated in the forecast sales. Generation cost is estimated at UScents9.2/kWh, which is the
average cost of supply; incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 3% of the
capital cost of the investment; incremental billing and administration cost are assessed at 5% of
incremental sales.
3.    The internal economic rate of return of the project is 21.5%. The economic viability of
the project is tested for the cases stemming from project risks, namely cost overrun (+10% capital
cost), project implementation delay (up to 1 year), and a poor operation and maintenance
performance (higher O&M costs and higher losses). The project is not expected to be sensitive to
variations in demand growth because there is currently a large suppressed demand. The results of
the ERR computation and sensitivity analysis are summarized in the following table. Details of
the calculation are given in Tables 15.2 to 15.6.
Table 15.1. Results of Sensitivity Analysis
ERR                  NPV      ($ million)
10%       12%        15%         18%
Base case                      21.5       30.31      19.93      10.04      4.11
One-year delay                 21.1      26.89       17.36      8.43       3.20
10% capital cost increase      19.3      26.79      16.74       7.25       1.64
Delay + cost overrun           18.9       23.58      14.41      5.89       0.98
Poor O&M performance           18.7       23.28      14.27      5.78       0.79



CAMBODIA
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project
Table 15.2: Economic Rate of Return (Base Case)
Investmnwt    Year      Total Inanemen    Non-Tech  Technical lncremenrt System Retiability              Costs (S m)                                 Benefits (S m)                       Net    Year      Sales
Program             Forecast    Sales     Losses    Losses Purchases                                                                                                                  Beneft           Stream for
in Base Year            Sates                (Illegal                          CIT  Xtra Dmd   lnvestmt  Incramentt  Inrrement  Inremen8  Incremental Incremental   System    System     Stream           Relabifty
Costs                                  Consmptn)                                   Served                  O&M   Purchases  Blig/Admin       Sales      Other       CIT      Loss                       Benefits
(Sm)                (GMh)    (GWh)          ) (        (%)    (GWM)   (hrs pa)    (GMW)                        (Gen-rTmns)                          Consmptn Improvemt Reduction      (5 m)             (GWM)
0.0   1994     111.9        0.0        0.0      14.0        0.0       300       0.0        0.0                                                                                     0.0    1994       112
3.9   1995     119.6        7.7        0.0      14.2        9.0      300        0.0        3.9        0.1        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0      (0.0)      (4.0)   1995       120
6.8   1996     167.9       56.0        0.0       11.5      63.3       250        1.0       6.6        0.3         2.2        0.2        3.6         0.0       0.2       0.1       (5.6)   1996       168
24.2   1997     240.5      128.6        0.0       9.5      142.1       150       4.1       24.2        1.0        4.8         0.4        8.2         00        0.7       0.3      (21.2)   1997       241
2.9   1998     296.1      184.2        0.0       8.6      201.5       50        8.5        2.9        1.1        6.9         0.6        11.8        0.0       1.5       0.6        2.4    1998       296
0.0  1999      351.0      239.1        0.0       8.6      2616         30      108         0.0        1.1         8.9        0.8       15.3         0.0       1.9       0.7        7.1   1999        351
2000     406.7      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9       18.9         0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2000        351
2001     456.5      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9       18.9         0.0       1.9        0.8       8.8   2001        351
2002     499.1      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9       18.9         0.0       1.9       0.8        8.6   2002        351
2003     530.4      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2003        351
2004     563.1      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.8   2004        351
2005                294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.S                  1.1        11.0        0.9       18.9         0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2005        351
2006                294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2006        351
2007 Forecast       294.6        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        08        8.6   2007        351
2008 entered        294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        19        08        8.6   2008        351
2009 onlyfor        294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2009        351
2010 thefirst       294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2010        351        _
2011 sevenyrs       294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2011        351       O
2012 since          294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2012        351       LA
2013 inaementl      294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.8   2013        351
2014 sales are      294.8        0.0        8.8     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2014        351
2015 takentfor      294.8        0.0       8.6      322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2015        351
2016 sxyears        294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2016        351
2017 with a         294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2017        351
2018 one year       294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2018        351
2019 bmelag.        294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.8   2019        351
2020                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2020        351
2021                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2021        351
2022                294.6        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2022        351
2023                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2023        351
2024                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        19        0.8       8.6    2024        351
2025                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2025         351
2026                294.8        0.0        8.8     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2028        351
2027                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1.9       0.8       8.6   2027         351
2028                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       108                    1.1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1 9       0.8       8.6   2028         351
2029                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                   1.1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1.9       0.8       8.6    2029        351
2030                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                   1.1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       19         08        8.6   2030         351
2031                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                   1.1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        19        0.8       8.6   2031         351
2032                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                   1.1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1.9       0.8       8.6    2032        351
2033                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.9        0.8       8.6   2033         351
2034                294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       10.8                  1.1        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1.9       0.8       8.6   2034         351
CIT Cumulatve tntemrupbon Time (Average hours pa per customer)                                                                                                      ERR      21.5%
NPV
10%      30.31
12%      19.93
15%      10.04
18%       4.11
BASECASE.XLS612195



CAMBODIA
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project
Table 15.3: Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity: One-Year Implementation Delay
Investment    Year     Total Incrementg  Non-Tech  Technical Incremend System Reliability               Costs (S m)                                Benefits (S m)                      Net    Year      Sales
Pgrogam            Forecast     Sales     Losses    Losses Purchases                                                                                                               Benefit         Stream for
in Base Year            Sales               (Illegal                         CIT  Xtra Dmd   Investmt  Increment  Increment  Incrementi Incremental Incremental   System    System   Stream           Reliability
Costs                                 Consmptn)                                   Served                 OSM   Purchases  Blig/Admin      Sales      Otler       CIT      Loss                      Benefits
(Sm)                (GWh)    (GWh)         (%)        (%)    (GVVh)   (hrs pa)    (GVVh)                     (Gen+Trans)                         Consmptn Improvemt Reducton       (S m)             (GWh)
00   1994      111.9       00         0.0       140       0.0       300        0.0       0.0                                                                                    0.0    1994      112
20   1995      119        4.0        0.0       142        4.7      300        00        2.0        01          0.0        0.0       0o0          0        0         (O0)      (21)   1995        116
4 0   1996     1448       329         00        13 0      37.       275        0 4       4.0        0 2         13         0.1        21         00        01        01        (33)   1996        145
145   1997      203.5      91.e        0.0      11.5      103.5      225        1.7      14.5        0 6        35         03          sB         00        0.3       02       (126)   1997       204
12 3   1996     261.3     149 4        0.0       6.5      165 1      150        4 5      12 3        1 0        9 6        0 5         9 6        0.0       0.8       0.4      (8 6)   1996       261
5.0   1999     313 2     201.3        0.0       6.6      220.2       50        69        5.0         11         7.5        0.6       12.9        0 0       1.6       0.6        0.8   1999       313
0   2000      360.1     248.2        0.0       8.6     271 8        30        9.7                  1 1        9.2        0 8        16.9        0.0       1.7       0.7       7.2   2000        313
-               2001     406.7     294.6         0.0       8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   11        11.0        09        18.9        00         17        0.7       8.3   2001        313
2002               2948         00         8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   11        110         0.9       169         00         17        0.7       8.3   2002        313
2003               294.8        0.0        86      322.5       30        9.7                   11        110         09        189         00         1.7       0.7       8.3   2003        313
2004               2948         0.0        86      322.5       30        97                    11        110         09        18.9        00         17        0.7       8.3   2004        313
2005               2948         00         86      3225        30        97                    11        110         09        18.9        00         17        0.7       83    2005        313
200e               294.8        0.0        86      322.5       30        97                    11        11.0        0.9       189         00         17        0.7       8.3   2006        313
2007 Forecast      294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   11        110         0.6       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2007        313
2008 entered       294.8        0.0        86      322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       07        8.3   2008        313
2009 ontyfor       294.8        0.0       86.8     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        00         1.7       0.7       8.3   2009        313               C,
2010 heh first     294.8         a.n       8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   11        11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2010        313
2011 sevenys       294.8        0.0        86      322.5       30        9.7                   11        11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2011        313
2012 since         294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2012        313
2013 incremeni     294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        17        0.7       8.3   2013        313
2014 sates are     294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2014        313
2015 taken for      294.8        0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1 1       11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0       1.7       0.7       8.3   2015        313
2016 sixyears      294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       189         0.0        17        0.7       8.3   2018        313
2017 wvh a          294.8        a.o       86      322.5        30       97                    11        11.0        0.9        189         0.0       1.7       0.7       8.3   2017        313
2018 one year      294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9        189         0.0       17        0.7       6.3   2018        313
2019 bme lag.       2948         0.0       6.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1 1       11.0        0.6        16.9        0.0       17        0.7       8.3   2019        313
2020               294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9        18 9        0.0       1.7       0.7       8.3   2020        313
2021               294.8         0.0       8.8     322.5        30       97                    1.1       110         0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2021        313
2022               294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1 1       11.0        0.9       18 9        0.0        1 7       0.7       8.3   2022        313
2023               294.8         0.0       8.6     322.6        30       9.7                   1.1       110         0.6       16.9        0.0        17        0.7       8.3   2023        313
2024               294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       97                    1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2024        313
2025               294.8         0.0       8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2025        313
2026               294.8        0.0        86      322.5        30       97                    1.1       110         0.6      1i9          00         17        07        8.3   2026        313
2027               294.8        0.0        s.6     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       1 0         0.9       1a9         0 0        17        0 7       6.3   2027        313
2028               294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.8       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2028        313
2029               294.8        a.n        8.6     322.5        30       9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2029        313
2030               2948         0.0        8.8     322.5       30        9.7                   1 1       11.0        0.6       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2030        313
2031               2948        0o0         8.      322.5       30        9.7                   11        11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2031        313
2032               294.8        a.o        s.e     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.6       18.9        00         1.7       0.7       8.3   2032        313
2033               294.8        0.0        8.6     322.5       30        9.7                   1.1       11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0       17         0.7       83    2033        313
2034               294.8         0.0       8.6     3225         30       9.7                   11        11.0        0.9       18.9        0.0        1.7       0.7       8.3   2034        313
CIT Cumulative Interruption Time (Average houn pa per customer)                                                                                                  ERR      21.1%
NPV
10%      26.89
12%      17.36
15%       8.43
18%       3 20
DELAYED3.XLSBE295I9O
q.Ah



CAMBODIA
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project
Table 15.4: Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity: 10% Capital Cost Increase
kwe__,u       Yew       TOS 1              Non-Te     Tel scst     m l System AsRB4ity                      Coass (S4             8_di  Sn)                                                    Not    YeW        son
Pragren             FaFcist      Sites     Lasses    LasS  Puses                                                                                                                           Osni            Swafnr
hi ses Yew               Sd.                                                     CIT  XS. Cud    bwisb    buimad _wmnl  hb               s    bwimiet  k_sm             Syste      SYim       S*               Rs
Cat                                     CTg                                           SeMd                    0      Pwdcs.s  BIWgAd.           Sou         Oh,r        CIT       Las                           _
(len)               (OwM )     (OW)           M6         N)     (GO       (tM4   Pa)    (GM)                      (OsTI)                               ConihM  bIywavu    R educain        (S no
0.    1994      111.9       0.0         0.0       14.0       0.0       300         0.0       0.0                                                                                       00      1994       112
3.9   1995      119.6       7.7         0.0       142        9.0       30D         0.0       4.3         0.1        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       (0.0)      (4.4)   15         120
6.6   12s9      107.2      16.0         0.0       I1.1      63.3       250         1.0       7.5         0.4         2.2        0.2         3.6        0.0        0.2        0.1      (6.3)   1996        1go
24.2   1997      240.5     126.6         0.0        9.5     142.1      10          4.1      26.6         1.2        4.6         0.4         8.2        0.0        0.7        0.3     (23.7)   1997        241
2.9  1tn        291       164.2         0.0        L6      201.5        so         .5        3.2         1.2        6.9         0.6        111         0O0        1s         0.8       2.0    1StO        296
0.0   199       31.0      239.1         0.0        .6      261.6         30       10.9       0.0         1.2        6.9         0.6        15.3        0.0        1.9        0.7        7.0    1996       361
2000      406.7     234.9         0.0        6.6     3225         30        10.6                   1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6         S    2000        351
201       416.      2941          0.0        6.o      322.5       30       1OJ                     1.2        11.0        0.9        *6s         0.0        1.9        0.e       *.5    201         351
20a2      499.1     201           0.0        6.6     322.5        30        10.6                   1.2       11.0         0.9        169         O.0        1.9        0.6       6.5    209         361
2am       530.4     2946          0.0        .6      322m.        30        10.6                   1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6       6.S    2003        361
2004      56.1      294.8         0.0        .6      322.5        30        10.6                   1.2       11.0         0.         16.9       o0          1.9        0.6       6.     2004        361
a0m6                294.6         0.0        6.6     322.5        30        106                    1.2       11.0         0.6        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6       6.5    2096        361
209                 294.8         0.0        .6      322.5        30        10.                    1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.6        0.6        6s    2006        351
200  Psacd          29.           0.0        6.6     322.         30        106.                   1.2       11.0         09         1.9         0.0        1.1        0.6       65    200?         351
26   sA              MA41         6.o        am      m.s          30        10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9       O          6.6    20         351
20o9  ** 4t         2946          0.0        *A      322          30        10.6                   1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        11J        0.6       *6    20eo         361
2010 ln             294           00o                 M2          30       1o0                     1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0J        VA     2010        361
2011 lwsn           294.1         00        6.6       m           30        101                    1 2        11.0        0.6        16.9        0.0        1.9        01        6.5    2011        361
2012  m             24.6          O.0                362.5        30        101o                   1.2        11.0          9        1.9         0.0        J.9        O           S    2012        361
2013    .iA         2941          6o         6.      322.S        30        10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.         0.6       L5     2013        361
2014 id" s.         2941          0.0        .6      322m.        30       10                     1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9       O         91    2014         361
2015 010            2961          6.4. 0     6.      322.5        30        10.3                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.         0.0        1.9        0.        6.6    201S        361
201  NWwa           29e 1         6.0        6.6     3m2          30        1O0                    1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        01.       65     2016        351
2017  _e            2941          0.0        La      322.5        30        101                    1.2        11.0       o0.         In.9        0.         1.9        0.6        6.s    2017       3S6
2016 oU w           2941          0.0        6A      3.5          30        101o                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9       O          1.9        0.8        as    2016        351
20g9    in.         296           0.0       6.       322.5        30        10.                    1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        01.       LS     2019        3s1
2090                294A          0.0       *J       322.1        30        10.6                   12         11.0        0.9        16.6        0.0        .9         0.6       6.1    220         361
2021                234.8         6.0       *.6      322s         30        10                     1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6        6.5    2021       351
2992                2S41          0.0        6.      3.5          30        10J                    1.2       11.0         0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        01        *.5   2062         361
2306                294.6         0.0        6.6     122.5        30        10.6                   1.2       11.          0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6       65     2023        361
2324                294A          0.0        6.      32.5         30        101                    1.2        11.0        0.6        16.         0.0        1.9        0.6       6.5    2024        351
2021                24.           0.0       6.6      322.6        30        1o0                    1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.        6 S5    2065       361
20                  204.1         0.0        6.6     322.5        30        10.8                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6       6.5    2026        361
20M7                294.6         Oo         6.6     322.S        30        10.5                   1.2        11.0        0.9        18.9        0.0        1.9        0.6        as    2027        361
20                  294.8         0.0        6.      322.1        30        10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6        .s    2026        36S
2029                294.          0.0        6.6     322.6        30        101                    1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.        6.5    2029        361
2030               231            0.0        66      322..        30        101.                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        0.6        8.5    2030       361
2031                24.1          0.0        .6       =32.5       30        10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9        0.0        1.9        01        6.5    2031        361
2032                294.6         0.0        6.6     2.s           30       10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9         0.0       1.9       o0.         6.     2032       3S1
2033                3.            0.0        61      3A22.5        30       10.                    1.2        11.0        0.9       1s.9          0.0       1.9        0.6        6.5    2033       3S1
2034                294.          0.0        61.     322.5        30        10.6                   1.2        11.0        0.9        16.9         0.0       1.9        0.6        6.5    2034       351
CIT Cumlowe haw,WUan Tb, (A         hn r  ps pw r*Rlni)                                                                                                                 Et        19.3%
NPY
10%      26.79
12%      16.74
15%       7.25
16%       1.64
OVERRUN2.XL5612195                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0%lA



CAMBODIA
Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project
Table 15.5: Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity: One-Year Implementation Dalay+10% Capital Cost Increase
brw,4        Yew       ToW  WmOIU i   Nor-Tlh  T.der4  hlrrmm    Sy*1m  R_A&by                          Ccow (S no                                 0 _aw (S m)                          Net    Year      sd.
Pmpan              FiFechl      Swas      Losee    Lasm   Pwdies                                                                                                                    sow'-e1 S.el 5k
omYw                    SUwn (Osi                                             CT  X5a DmW    kwehsl h_wemui  hownW              wn        pm         m           Syslm      SyNan    S- Rmfay
Cub                                   Co_ 4                                       SeM a                          Pu_dm    OIA&h5'         S1n         OSir       aT                                   m Bt
(Sm)                0GWe      fW4          (7)        (        G6)    (VWi    (lv pa)   (cWm                 (omT )                              Com_en lIwom         Readon        (Sm)              (GtGV
0.0  4364      111.t       0.0        0.0       14.0       0.0       20        0.0        0.0                                                                                   0.0   1994        112
2.0   IWM      115.        4.0        0.0       14.2       4.7       20        ao         2.2        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      (0.0)     (2.3)   19s        116
4.0   16       144.5      3259        D         12o 0 n    7.1      275        0.4        4.4        0.2        1.3        0a1        21         0.0        0.1       0.1      (3.6)   16         145
145   *e7       203.5       1.6        0.0      11.5      103.5      225       17       16.0        0.7        235         0.3        a.9        0.0       0.3        0.2     (14.1)   1667       204
12.3   1M       261.3     143.4        0.0       9.5    165.1        ISO        4.5      135         1.1         5.6        0.5        9.6        ao        ae8        0.4      (9.3)   1w         261
Lo   1663      S1W2      20.3         0.0       a        220.2       s0        a0e        5.         1.2        7.1        0.6       12.3        0.0        1.6       0.        0.2   1666        313
0   2000      xa1       242          0.0       8.0     271.0        30        0.7                  1.2       952          0.a       16.1        0.0       1.7       0.7        7.1   20eo        313
2001     4es.7     264.8        ae         ae      322.5        30       9.7                   1.2       11.0        ae3        10.6        0.0       1.7       0.7       6.2   2001        313
2002               204.6         0.0        .        2.6        30         .7                  1.2       110         0.6        1ts         0o        1.7       0.7       8.2   2002        313
21W                264.e         0.0       8.e     322S         31        3.7                  1.2       11.0        0.9       1.6         0.0       1.7       0.7        62    200         313
2034               264.8         0.0       a6       22.5        20       *.7                   12        11.0        0.a        1"          0o        1.7       0.7       0.2   2004        313
2tes               264.8        0.0        0.6    322.5         30        07                   1.2       11.0        0.3        103         0.0       1.7       0.7       8.2   2000         312
2000               2ke           0.0       3.6    322.5         2D        0.7                  1.2       11.0        0.9        13.3        0.0       1.7       0.7       8.2    2o0S        313
200 13s1           264.6         0.0       to ae     2S         30       0.7                   1.2       1.0         0.6        1ts         0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2   2007         313
2ameWe o           294.8         ao 0       .6      ms          20       9.7                   1.2       11.0         3o        Is          t0o       1.7       0.7       0.2   2000         313
2008 G* mOK                      0.0       0.e ao    s25        30        17                   1.2       11.0        0.6       1s0.         0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2    2           313         O
261  UbL"          234.6        0.0       La       222.1        20       0                     1.2       11.0        0.6       1ts          co        1         0.7       8.2   200          312          0
20M  aSe v         24 .8         0.0                22          20       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.a        10.         0.0       1.7       .7        0.2   2011        213
2e           a      26 a e a o4.3  ms0     8        22          20      0S.                    1.2       11.0        0.9        i0.         0.3       1.7       0.7       0.2   2012        313
2am    _omm        26.           0.0       to      32           20        0.7                  1.2       11.0        0.3        1A          to        1.7       0.7       8.2   2013        313
2am4    m          264.          0o        as      322S         20        0.7                  1.2       11.o        0.3        1.          0.0       1.7       0.7       02    2014        313
20   _.be          294.6        e0o         0         5 a0                0.7                  1.2       11.         0.a       1t8         0.0        1.7       .7        6.2   2011        213
20   ONem          264           0.0       0.      32           20        0?7                  1.2       11.0        0.3        10.3        OL0       1.7       0.7       6.2   201         213
2017VM             264J          0.0      a0.s  e               20        0.7                  1.2       11.0       a0         10.          a0        1.7       0.7       0.2   2017        312
2a1  muw           234.6         0.0       to      322.5        20       0.7                   1.2       11s         0.3        1S6         0.        1.7       0.7       6.2    21         313
201e  gms          2K6           0o        to      3W.S         20        8.7                  1.2       1to         0.3         8.         0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2   20          313
020                264.8         0.0 0o             222.5       20        0.7                  1.2       11.0        to         10.         0.0 o.7             0.7       02    2000        313
2001               264.3         0.o       0.0    322.          30        0.7                  12        11.0        0.         1            0        1.7       0.7       0.2   2021        31
21W                264.8         0.0       0.0      222         20        3T7                  1.2       11.0        0.3        103         0.0       1.7       O.7       0.2   2022        313
2423               26.           0.0       0.      3222.5       20       I7                    1.2       11.         0.3 1e.3              ao         1.7       0.7         2    2023       313
2e2                2348         0.0        0.6     32e5         30       0.7                   1.2       11.0       a0         10.         0.0        1.7       0.7       8.2   2024        313
200                264.3         a0       3*J       m           20        0.7                  1.2       11.0       a0         10.          0.0       1.7       0.7       02    2025        313
2026               264.6         0.0 ae             222.5       20       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.6       10.         0o         1.7       07        0.2   2006        313
2027               264.8         0.0       0.      322.5        20       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.3        18.3        0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2   2027        313
2003               264.0         0.0   a 0o   322.5             20        0.7                  1.2       11.0        0.         103         ao        1.7       0.7       0.2   200         313
2023               264.5         0.0       0.o     * 22.5       20       9.7                   1.2       11.0         .         1            0        1.7       0.7       62 -22            313
2030               264.8         0.0       as      322.5        20       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.9        13s        0o.        1.7       0.7       8.2   2030        313
2021               264.8         0.0       0.      3?25         30       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.9        103         0.0       1.7       07        82    2031        313
2022               294.8         0.0 o      .0     322.5        20       9.7                   1.2       11.0        0.3        10.         0.0       1.7       0.7       8.2   2032        313
2023               294.8         0.0               3 22.5        0        9.7                  1.2       11.0        0.3        103         0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2   2033        313
2034                264.8        0.0   a .0        322.5        30        07                   1.2       11.0        0.3        103         0.0       1.7       0.7       0.2   2034         313
CIT Cumdabs h ul_-" TfRR(Avuage Iowapp   Se)                                                                                                                      O       19.3%
10%      23150
12%      14.41
15%       5.86
00L80V62                                                                                                                            18%       066~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i% 09



CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 15.6: Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity: Poor O&M Performance
Investment    Year     Total Incrementi  Non-Tech  Technical Increment] System Reliability            Costs (S m)                               Benefits (S m)                      Net   Year      Sales
Program            Forecast    Sales     Losses    Losses Purchases       ----             -----                ----       ---                                                  Benefit        Stream for
in Base Year            Sales               (Illegal                        CIT  Xtra Dmd   Investmt  Incrementl  Incrementl  Incrementl Incremental Incremental   System    System    Stream     Reliability
Costs                                Consmptn)                                  Served                 O&M   Purchases  BlIg/Admin     Sales      Other       CIT      Loss                     Benefits
(Sm)               (GWn)   (GWh)           (%)       (%)    (Gvvh)  (hrs pa)   (GWh)                      (Gen+Trans)                         Consmptn Improvemt Reduction      (S m)            (GWMh)
00   1994      111.9       0.0        0.0     14.0       0.0       300       0.0       0.0                                                                                  0.0   1994        112
3.9  1995      119.6       7.7       0.0       14.2      9.0       300       0.0       3.9        0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      (0.0)     (4.1)   1995       120
6 8   1996     167.9      560        0.0       13.0     64.4       250        1.0      6.8        0.6        2.2        0.2        3.6        0.0       0.2       0.1      (6.0)   1996       168
24.2  1997      240.5     128.6        0.0      11.0     144.5      150       4.1      24.2        1.6        4.9        0.4        6.2        0.0       07        0.2     (21.9)   1997       241
29   1998      2961      184.2       0.0       10.0    204.7        50       8.5       2.9        1.7        7.0        0.6       11.8        0.0       1.5       0.4       1.6   1998        296
0 0   1999     351 0    239 1        0 0       10.0    265.7        30      10.8       0.0        1 7        9.0        0.8       15.3        0.0       1.9       0.5       6.3   1999        351
---------------  2000   406 7     294 8        0 0      10 0     327.6        30      10.8                  1 7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2000       351
2001     456.5     2948         00       100      3276        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9       0.0        1 9       0.6       7.7   2001       351
2002     499.1     294.8        0.0      10.0    3276         30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2002       351
2003     530.4    294.8         0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1 9       0.6       7.7   2003       351
2004     563.1     294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       108                   1.7       11.1        0.9       189         0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2004       351
2005               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1 9       0.6       7.7   2005       351
2006               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       189         0.0       1.9       06        77    2006       351
2007 Forecast      294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0 6       7 7   2007       351
2008 entered       294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       189         00        1.9       0.6       77    2008       351
2009 only for      294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  17        11.1        09        18.9        00        1.9       06        77    2009       351      0
2010 thofirst      294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       77    2010       351
2011 seven yrs     294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  17        11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2011       351
2012 since         294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        1.9       0.6      7.7   2012        351
2013 incementl    294.8         0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.6                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        1.9       0.6       77    2013       351
2014 salesare      294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        1.9       0.6       7.7   2014       351
2015 takenfor      294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        19        0.6       77    2015       351
2016 sixyears      294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2016       351
2017 wdh a         294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       77    2017       351
2018 oneyear       294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2018       351
2019  nimelag.     294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2019       351
2020               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2020       351
2021               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2021       351
2022               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2022       351
2023               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       111         0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2023       351
2024               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2024       351
2025               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2025       351
2026               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       111         0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       06        7.7   2026       351
2027               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2027       351
2028               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2027       351
2029               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2029       351
2030               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6        30      10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1 9       06        7.7   2030       351
2031               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2031       351
2032               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6        30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        0.0       1.9       0.6       7.7   2032       351
2033               294.8        0.0      10.0     327.6       30       10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        1.9       0.6       7.7   2033       351
2034               294.8        0.0      10.0    327.6         30      10.8                  1.7       11.1        0.9       18.9        00        1.9       0.6       7.7   2034       351
CIT Cumulative Interruption Time (Average hours pa per customer)                                                                                              ERR     18.7%
NPV
10%     23.28
12%      14.27                        O 
15%       5.76                        cO
18%       0.79



-110-                             Annex 16
CAMBODIA
PHNOM PENH POWER SECTOR REHIABILITATION
List of Documents in Project File
1.    Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project -- Conceptual Report. Worley International
Limited, March 1995.
2.    Human Resources Development Master Plan -- Power & Water Utilities (Cambodia).
ESB International, April 1995.
3.    Development of the Energy Sector in Cambodia. Position Paper for the Energy Sector
Donor Coordination Meeting. Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy, October 1994.
4.    Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan for Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project.
Draft Report. Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy. Electricite du Cambodge. April
1995.
5.    UNDP Technical Assistance for the Rehabilitation of Power Utilities of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville, Medium Term Investment Prioritization. Terotech Consulting, Ltd., April
1994.
6.    UNDP Technical Assistance for the Rehabilitation of Power Utilities of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville, Cambodia Power Sector, Institutional and Regulatory Framework. Juan
Barnes G., June 1994.
7.    Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Country Department 1, East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, May 1995.
8.    Cambodia: From Rehabilitation to Reconstruction. Country Department 1, East Asia and
Pacific Region, The World Bank, February 1994.
9.    Cambodia Rehabilitation Program: Implementation and Outlook. Country Department 1,
East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank, February 1995.






MAP






IBRD 26880
CAMBODIA                                                              CHINA
K
PHNOM PENH POWER
LAOS,        2
REHABILITATION PROJECT
THAILAND
VIET '5
CNAMBODIA NAM
Phnon,
10 Penhk'
t'sSENtt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nes
| 0_< 0lnd0
Phnom Penh         V               TI "    LI NE\ 
fl ~  K LA M5P  
Zr.|
To Airport~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~ 
$   - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     -I -EpstinHl
%rn     A   \~~~~~    e
T~~~~V
vC$(P   2~
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EliS
A"w~~~-Z-I
%y
115 kVTRANSMISSIONLINE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4-
SCOPE~ ~ ~~~~~~~nano-  OF IDADISTRHUTIO
_     LOMETVP
App-,-t
S n  -   -~~~~~~~~~~ -P L19












