T "I 4  ai   w
CREDIT NUMBER 2782 KI
Development Credit Agreement
(Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    4eC,b b .   ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2782 KI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          , 1995, between KINGDOM OF
CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Dfinitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms, wherever used, in this Agreement have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)    "EDC" means Electricit6 du Canibodge, the electricity utility of the
Borrower established and operating under the responsibility and supervision of MIME
pursuant to the Decision No. 205/OD issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Industry on
March 11, 1989, and such term includes any successor thereto;
(b)    "Fiscal Year" means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of the
Borrower's or EDC's Fiscal Years, which period commences on January I and ends on
December 31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively, more
than one Fiscal Year;
(c)    "Investment Program" means EDC's annual investment program and
related financing plan for each Fiscal Year, beginning with Fiscal Year 1996, referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(d)    "Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan" means the plan, adopted by
the Borrower pursuant to its Decision No. 939/EDC, dated June 21, 1995, setting forth the
modalities, arrangements and procedures necessary for acquiring the land required for,
and/or compensating all persons whose livelihood is to be adversely affected by, the
Project, or any part thereof, so as to ensure the restoration or enhancement of livelihood
and standard of living of all such persons up to or beyond the levels enjoyed by them prior
to the commencement of the Project, referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(e)    "MIME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy,
established pursuant to the Borrower's Royal Decree dated November 1, 1993;
(f)    "NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower's central
bank;
(g)    "Performance Plan" means the plan agreed upon between MIME and
EDC, dated August 9, 1995, setting forth the necessary measures for achieving the
medium-term objectives, operating targets, performance indicators and financing and
staffing requirements for EDC;
(h)    "Project Implementation Plan" means the program for implementing the
Project, referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)    "PIU" means the project implementation unit established pursuant to the
Borrower's Decision No. 90/MIME, dated January 18, 1995, referred to in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)    "Riel" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(k)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(1)    "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(m)     "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EDC pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 25,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
United States dollars a special deposit account in NBC on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)     at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii)    without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and
(iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
select(d pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at tho rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay
the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing January 15, 2006 and ending July 15, 2035. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on July 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined
by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them
of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall


﻿-5-
have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall:
(i)     carry out Part B.2 of the Project through MIME with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, engineering, financial, managerial,
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds (including foreign exchange), facilities,
services and other resources required for such Part B.2 of the
Project; and
(ii)    carry out Parts A and B. 1 of the Project through EDC with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, engineering, financial, managerial,
public utility and environmental practices, shall take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds (including
foreign exchange), facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable EDC to carry out such Parts A
and B.1 of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out
of Parts A and B.1 of the Project by EDC.


﻿-6-
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) carry out Part B.2 of the Project through MIME in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) carry out Parts A
and B.1 of the Project through EDC in accordance with the Project Implementation
Program and Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Within three (3) months after the Borrower shall have established
EDC as an autonomous juridical entity possessing the attributes provided therefor in
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement (the "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"), under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such a manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that EDC
carries out the Performance Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Performance Plan, or any part thereof, shall not be amended or waived.
Section 3.04. For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without
any limitation or restriction thereto, the Borrower shall:
(i)     prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association,
and furnish to the Association not later than sLx (6) months after
the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for
the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. (a) Not later than October 1 in each Fiscal Year, beginning in Fiscal
Year 1996, the Borrower shall exchange views and review with the Association the
adequacy of the structure or levels of EDC's electricity tariffs and the progress achieved by
EDC in implementing the Investment Program during the preceding Fiscal Year.


﻿-7-
(b)    Based upon said review, the Borrower shall propose for the Association's
comments any proposed adjustment to the structure or levels of EDC's electricity tariffs,
and those actions necessary for improving the Investment Progam, and EDC's
implementation thereof, in respect of the following Fiscal Year.
(c)    Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall, taking into account the
Association's views and recommendations, adjust said tariffs as needed and, through EDC,
update the Investment Program and otherwise carry out, or cause EDC to carry out, the
recommendations of said review with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall carry out, the Land Acquisition and
Compensation Plan in accordance with a time bound program acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE PV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, separate
records and accounts edequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i)
its electricity operations under EDC and EDC's financial condition; and (ii) the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower (including, but without limitation, MIMEE and EDC) responsible for carrying out
the Project, or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section (including those for the Special Account), and the
financial statements in respect of its electricity operations
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
statements of sources and applications of funds) for each Fiscal
Year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited by said auditors, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such bther information concerning
such records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    EDC shall not have been established by the Borrower as an autonomous
entity possessing a separate juridical personality with attributes, powers and
responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, at the latest by December 31, 1995.
(b)    (i) An Electricity Act for the regulation of all electric utilities and related
provision of power services throughout the Borrower's territory shall not have been
enacted, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, at the latest by June 30,
1996; or (ii) An autonomous regulatory body for the regulation of the Borrower's power
sector shall not have been established, with powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, at the latest by September 30, 1996.
(c)    EDC or MIME shall have failed to carry out the Performance Plan, or any
part thereof.
(d)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that EDC will
be able to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EDC, or for the suspension of any of
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, and
(b)    Any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 (a) (i) of this
Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate, or on the date
twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is hereby
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd Street
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 CMPP


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                             248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.                     82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                       Authoie R-e sn-t
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Alocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     280,000             70%
(2) Goods and                     21,450,000            100% of foreign
installation works                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                   1,700,000            100%
services under
Part B.1 of
the Project
(4) Consultants'                    430,000             100%
services under
Part B.2 of
the Project
(5) Unallocated                    1,940,000
TOTAL                        25,800,000


﻿- 13 -
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I hereinabove, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and
works valued at less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent each; (b) the
employment of consulting firms valued at less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent each; and (c) the employment of individual consultants valued at
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each, all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in strengthening its power
sector institutions, including EDC, and rehabilitating the electricity distribution system of
its capital city Phnom Penh, through the financing of priority investments and provision of
technical assistance services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Rehabilitation of the Phnom Penh Electricity Distribution System
1.     Construction and installation of about twenty-three (23) kilometers of one hundred
fifteen (115) kilovolt transmission circuits around the perimeter of Phnom Penh to connect
three (3) primary one hundred fifteen/twenty-two (115/22) kilovolt substations.
2.     Construction and installation of about one hundred (100) circuit kilometers of
twenty-two (22) kilovolt underground and overhead transmission lines and three hundred
(300) kilometers of low voltage iiansmission lines; and installation of forty (40) megavolt-
ampere of distribution transformers, twenty (20) megavolt-ampere-reactive power factor
correction equipment, and about forty thousand (40,000) consumer electricity connections.
3.     (a) Provision of tools and equipment, communications gear for system operations,
and logistics control; and (b) construction of storage facilities.
4.     Improvement of the environmental and safety conditions at existing power plants
located within Phnom Penh, including installation of appropriate facilities, implementation
of appropriate maintenance and operating procedures, and improvement of fire fighting
systems.
Part B: Institutional Strengthening of EDC and MIME
1.     Strengthening of EDC's capability for the efficient procurement of goods and
services, engineering, importation of management services, conduct of commercial
operations and establishment of an environmental protection unit and associated
procedures through provision of consultants' services and training.


﻿- 15 -
2.     Strengthening of MIME's ability to formulate and implement an appropriate
electricity sector structure and related regulatory framework through the provision of
consultants' services and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: OGeneral
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the "Guidelines") and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Civil works for the construction of storage facilities under Part A.3 of the
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000), may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A.2 of the Project for the construction and installation of low
voltage transmission lines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), may be procured under lump sum fixed price


﻿-17-
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least five (5) pre-qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Reviews
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Association
in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments,
such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.


﻿- 18 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent each, or
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply.to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) equivalent or above.


﻿-19
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation Plan
1.     The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, until completion of the
Project, the PIU with terms of reference and resources as shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and shall ensure that the PIU is at all times headed by a project director and
staffed with qualified staff in adequate numbers disposing of all necessary resources.
2.     The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1996, take all measures necessary to
approve the reconstituted and duly audited balance sheet of EDC as at December 31, 1995.
3.     The Borrower shall, through EDC, not later than February 28, 1996, prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for: (i) the collection of any of EDC's accounts
receivable outstanding as at December 31, 1995; and (ii) the reduction of EDC's accounts
receivable to the equivalent of (A) three (3) months' of sales revenues as of December 31,
1998 and (B) two and one-half (2 1/2) months' of sales revenues as of December 31, 1999.
4.     The Borrower shall, through EDC, implement procedures satisfactory to the
Association for the timely monitoring of progress achieved in carrying out -the Project,
including the submission to the Association of quarterly progress reports in such detail and
of such scope as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.     Promptly after the Borrower shall have established EDC as an autonomous
juridical entity possessing the attributes provided therefor in Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure that a duly
qualified advisor is recruited to assist EDC's board of directors, according to terms of
reference and conditions of employment which shall have been previously approved by the
Association.
6.     The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure that: (i) not later
than March 31, 1996, EDC shall have prepared a time-bound action plan, acceptable to the
Association, for terminating all then existing arrangements between EDC and electricity
wholesalers and entering into alternative contractual arrangements as may be required; and
(ii) EDC carries out said action plan prior to beginning the implementation of the low
voltage transmission line construction activities under Part A (2) of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and EDC's Financial and
Performance Requirements
Part A: Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the following principal terms and
conditions:
1.     EDC shall repay to the Borrower the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, from time to time, for carrying out Parts A and
B.1 of the Project less an amount equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) which shall
constitute the Borrower's capital equity contribution to EDC (the "Subsidiary Loan") over
a period not to exceed seventeen (17) years, including a grace period not to exceed five (5)
years from the date of the establishment of EDC as an autonomous juridical entity
possessing the attributes provided therefor in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement.
2.     The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in United States dollars and repaid by
EDC to the Borrower in Riels, at least semi-annually at the official rate of exchange as
determined by NBC on the respective dates on which the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
are repaid by EDC.
3.     EDC shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan, withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate per annum equal to the Libor rate plus one-half
of one percent (1/2%).
4.     EDC shall pay to the Borrower the commitment charges payable under Section
2.06 of this Agreement, allocable to the part of the proceeds of the Credit relent but not
withdrawn by EDC.
5.     The provisions set forth in paragraphs I through 8 of Part B of this Schedule.
Part B: Financial and Performance Requirements
The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that: (i) from the date of this
Agreement, the following provisions shall be complied with by EDC; and (ii) these
provisions shall also be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
1.     That EDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, economic, engineering, financial, managerial, public utility and


﻿- 21 -
environmental practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.     That EDC shall, at all times, operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, economic, engineering,
financial, managerial, public utility and environmental practices.
3.     That EDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consitent with appropriate practice.
4.     That, after its establishment as a autonomous juridical entity possessing the
attributes provided therefor in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, EDC shall maintain its
existence and right to carry on its operations, and to acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise
exercise any and all rights (including, but without limitation, land rights), powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its operations and
its carrying out of its obligations pursuant to the provisions of the Performance Plan and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
5.     That, except in the ordinary course of its business, EDC shall not, without the
Association's prior consent, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its operations or the carrying out of
the Project.
6.     That EDC shall reduce its outstanding accounts receivable to three (3) months of
sales revenues by December 31, 1998, and to two-and-a-half (2 1/2) months of sales
revenues by December 31, 1999, all in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the
Association.
7.     That: (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for each Fiscal Year
after the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1995, revenues in respect of EDC shall be
generated from internal sources at least sufficient to cover all of its expenses;
(b)    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for each Fiscal Year after
the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1998, an annual return shall be earned in respect
of EDC of not less than six percent (6%) of the average current net value of EDC's fixed
assets in operation in Fiscal Year 1999 and thereafter;
(c)    Before November 1 in each of its Fiscal Years, EDC shall, on the basis
of forecasts prepared by EDC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether the
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) would be met in respect of such year and


﻿- 22 -
the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review
upon its completion; and
(d)    If any such review shows that the requirements set forth in paragraphs
(a) and (b) would not be met for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower
and EDC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of EDC's tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
8.     (a) For the purposes of sub-paragraph 7 (a) above:
(i)     The term "revenues" means the sum of revenues from all
sources related to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating income
and any reduction in working capital other than cash.
(ii)    The term "expenses" means the sum of all expenses related to
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance,
major repairs, and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash
operating charges), debt service requirements, all cash
dividends and other cash distribution of surplus, increases in
working capitLJ other than cash and other cash outfows other
than capital expenditures.
(iii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
above.
(iv)    The term   "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and current
liabilities at the end of each Fiscal Year.
(v)     The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts


﻿-23-
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the
next Fiscal Year.
(vi)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will
become due and payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including
accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt   service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
dividends.
(vii)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(viii)  The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.
(ix)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
(b)    For the purposes of sub-paragraph 7 (b) above:
(i)     The annual return shall be calculated by dividing EDC's net
operating income for the Fiscal Year in question by one half of
the sum of the current net value of EDC's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.
(ii)    The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues
less total operating expenses.
(iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to operations.


﻿- 24-
(iv)    The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 3%
per annum of the average current gross value of EDC's fixed
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)     The average current gross value of EDC's fixed assets in
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross
value of EDC's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
the end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)    The term "current net value of EDC's fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of EDC's fixed assets in operation less the
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time
in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods
of valuation satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of four million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 26 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 27 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account:
(i)     was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)    was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
(A)    provide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or
(B)    deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


