Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18751
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROJECT
(YTEPP)
[LOAN 3328-TRI
December 28, 1998
Sector Management Unit
Human Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit   =    Trinidad & Tobago Dollar (TT$)
US$1.00            TT$6.29
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CEO                Chief Executive Officer
GORTT              Government of the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LLC                Limited Liability Company
LMIS               Labor Market Information System
MOE                Ministry of Education
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NTA                National Training Agency
NTB                National Training Board
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SBDC               Small Business Development Company
YESS               Youth Enterprise Support System
Vice President           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director    Orsalia Kalantzopolous
Country Sector Leader    Jamil Salmi
Task Manager - Proj.     Joel Reyes
Task Manager - ICR       Jennifer Leach



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..............................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................. ii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................. 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .............................................................I
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................................2
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................4
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................................................6
BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................................7
BORROWER PERFORNLANCE .........8....................................................8
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMIE ...........8..................................................8
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS .............................................................9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................9
PART  11. STATISTICAL  ANNEXES  ............................................................ 11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................................................ 11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................................ 12
Table 3: IBRD  Project Timetable ............................................................ 12
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................... ............. 13
Tables 5-6: Key Indicatorsfor Project Implementation  and Operation .......................................... 13
Table 7: Studies Completed ............................................................                                                  23
Table 8B: Global Project Financing ............................................................ 24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................................ 25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................                                        26
Tabk  I1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................................................... 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual) ............................................................ 27
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................................                                        28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP
PROJECT (LOAN 3328 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Youth Training and
Employment Partnership Project (YTEPP), for which Loan 3328-TR in the amount of
US$20.7 million was approved on May 21, 1991, signed on August 29, 1991, and
declared effective on October 18, 1991. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998. It was
not fully disbursed: US$1.50 million was canceled; the last disbursement took place on
August 19, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Jennifer Leach, Consultant, with extensive input from
Joel Reyes, Operations Officer, and able assistance from Ada Rivera, Task Assistant.
The ICR was reviewed by Jamil Salmi (LCSHD) and Raj Nallari (LCC3C). The
Borrower prepared a separate report in two parts: one prepared by the Ministry of
Education, the other by Project staff. Both are included as an appendix to the ICR;
further technical appendices, listed on page 30, are available in the project files.
Preparation for this ICR is based, inter alia, on the Bank's final supervision/ICR
mission, which took place in June, 1998; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
interviews with relevant Bank staff; the mid-term review; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; tracer studies (conducted each year of the project); and YTEPP
reports.



YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROJECT
(LOAN 3328-TR)
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This project was approved by the Board on May 21,1991, signed on August 29,
1991, and declared effective on October 18, 1991. At the time of appraisal total project
costs were estimated at US$31.9 million equivalent, of which US$20.7 million was to be
financed by the IBRD loan, with the balance to be financed by the Government of
Trinidad & Tobago. This project required 6 years and 9 months for completion, which is
somewhat longer than the average completion period for social projects. The final
disbursement was effected in August, 1998.
Project Objectives
ii.   The project was to assist the Government to improve the design, delivery and
effectiveness of YTEPP, which offers education and training and other support services
to youth to enhance their employability and self-employment prospects. This was
achieved by pursuing four key objectives: (i) to improve the quality and relevance of
education and training for employment through the development of curriculum, training
of instructors and provision of equipment for training facilities and various training
programs; (ii) to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work experience in
private enterprises or public agencies to facilitate their first entry into the labor market;
(iii) to promote self-employment initiatives of youth through self-employment and small
business training and the linking of a network of credit institutions capable of providing
loans for small businesses; and (iv) to strengthen the management of the YTEPP Program
to enhance the effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to program, monitor
and evaluate training and post-training support operations and their impact on youth
employment.
iii.   Project Content: To achieve the objectives described above, the project included
three core components: (i) "Education and Training" (US$19.0 million), to assist YTEPP
in improving the design of its education and training courses, upgrading the quality of its
teaching staff, and providing supplementary instructional equipment and materials; (ii)
"Post-training Assistance" (US$3.3 million), to support, with parallel co-financing by the
private sector, work experience placements for trainees in order to facilitate their first
entry into the labor market, and promote youth self-employment initiatives; and (iii)
"Program Management Strengthening" (US$9.6 million), to strengthen management of
YTEPP's training programs, establish project monitoring and evaluation systems and
support a labor market information system (LMIS) to assist with planning of training.



Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   During its implementation, and as a result of the mid-term restructuring of the
project, YTEPP fully met its quantitative targets. Over the course of the project, YTEPP
established 29 part-time centers, plus 5 full-time centers and various community-based
programs on both Trinidad and Tobago. On average, 5,000 students per cycle were
accepted, with between 3,000-4,000 graduating. A total of 49,064 clients graduated over
the life of the project, 41,066 from center-based programs, 5,203 from community-based,
and 2,726 in microentrepreneurship (of which 69 were trained in community-based
centers). 2,076 clients received work experience placements, or about 5 percent of all
graduates. Of the total number of vocational skills graduates, 35,446 also graduated from
the Career Enhancement training subcomponent; 6,566 received special tutoring in
literacy and numeracy over the life of the project. In addition, the management capacity
of YTEPP increased steadily over the course of the project, and its programming,
monitoring and evaluation activities were consistently of high quality. The other two
development objectives were partially met-the shortfall is primarily due to the fact that
these objectives were out of the control of the project. Despite these shortcomings, the
project's record of success led to an overall rating of satisfactory.
v.    As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the
project was rated satisfactory in every major area. The project maintained satisfactory or
highly satisfactory ratings since its approval. The project was well targeted to the
neediest clients (80 percent of participants have been drawn from uneducated/unskilled
groups), and has been largely demand-driven and locally executed. The technical
operation of the project management and the training centers was good and largely free
from political interference (see below for discussion of local political pressures). YTEPP
was well managed, with highly qualified and dedicated staff, and a very active Board of
Directors under the Limited Liability Company structure that has kept the YTEPP
Company outside of the normal political channels. Despite early, stringent targets for
project performance, the design of the project appears to have been appropriate to achieve
the stated objectives. This statement is further supported by the results of the four tracer
studies carried out by the project, which provide evidence to the project's success.
Nonetheless, the project started slowly and required two extra years to reach its
objectives.
vi.   Four tracer studies were carried out over the course of the project, beginning in
1991, the results of which further indicate the successes of YTEPP's efforts. The studies'
findings include the following: (i) unemployment rates of YTEPP graduates are
consistently lower than the rate in the same cohort of the general population; (ii) 58
percent of YTEPP graduates aged 15-19 participate in the labor market, as opposed to
32.4 percent of the same group in the general population; (iii) the absorption rate of
female YTEPP graduates increased 46.7 percent between 1993-96, a 32.8 percentage
point gain over the 13.9 percent rate of the control group; (iv) likewise, over the same
period, the absorption rate of male YTEPP graduates increased 51.8 percent, a 20.3
percent gain over the control group's increase (31.5 percent); (v) post-YTEPP earnings



iv
are directly linked to participation in the program (with the most significant impact on the
least educated and least skilled group); (vi) a higher proportion of YTEPP graduates opt
for self-employment as compared to the control group; (vii) YTEPP's gains are especially
notable given that the average YTEPP applicant has a marginally lower academic
background as compared to the control group; and (viii) YTEPP has been successful in
attracting two of the most vulnerable groups in society and enhancing their
employability: women and incarcerated men.
vii.   With the combination of government and private sector interest in the future of
the project, prospects for the sustainability of the YTEPP are good. YTEPP has
developed very good managerial capacity, and has proven its ability to diversify training
to cater to market needs without a major increase to recurrent expenditures. It is able to
service a range of different groups in a variety of sectors. The GORTT has apparently
recognized YTEPP's success, and the continuing demand for its services, with the
inclusion of YTEPP in the newly-created NTA under the newly-created Ministry of
Information, Communication, Training and Distance Learning. Despite the importance
given to training by the government, the future success of YTEPP as part of the NTA will
depend on the extent to which the government retains the most successful aspects of the
project. Key among these is the institutional structure of the YTEPP as an LLC,
providing a great deal of necessary independence and flexibility to adjust to a changing
market, new technologies, and new management practices.
viii.  Bank performance was satisfactory at every stage of the project cycle, despite a
certain optimism in the project design, in terms of targets set. It should be noted,
however, that strong performance and collaboration by YTEPP facilitated Bank
involvement. The relevant technical assistance was provided as needed, and a very
cordial relationship has been maintained with project staff and with the GORTT.
Particular mention is due to the mid-term mission, which provided a thorough, balanced,
and constructive analysis of the project's past performance and options for the future.
Despite the fact that YTEPP had not met original targets, the mission found the project to
be successful; building on the positive aspects identified, the joint actions of the mission
and the GORTT sparked a restructuring of the project. It was on the basis of this work
done by the Bank and the project that YTEPP was positioned for the continued growth of
its success.
ix.   Borrower performance was satisfactory for both identification/preparation and
implementation. YTEPP staff has been consistently highly qualified and dedicated, and
its managerial capacity has steadily increased over the course of the project. Despite the
lack of a formal framework in which the project could operate, the GORTT proved a
reliable supporter of YTEPP and its activities. Most remarkable is that, in spite of
political pressure, YTEPP was allowed to remain a corporate body outside the normal
governmental and ministerial channels. Audits, monitoring indicators, and evaluation
reporting were generally complete and punctual. Visiting missions were given full
support and extensive field visits were encouraged and well facilitated.



v
Summary of Key Findings and Lessons Learned
Some of the key lessons learned from YTEPP's experience and recommendations for
future operations may be summarized as follows:
• The expansion of linkages with private industry, government departments, and public
companies is key for project sustainability, both in terms of hiring YTEPP graduates,
and in contracting YTEPP services. Coordination is also important with related line
ministries (e.g., the MOE, which provided access to facilities, equipment, human
resources and technical expertise).
* It is important to delineate areas of responsibility for the vocational-technical training
field, particularly with the creation of the NTA and the increasing training activities
of private groups. Absence of institutional framework probably limited the advances
that YTEPP could have made; a national training policy would be useful in
establishing the players and their respective roles.
* The YTEPP's structure as an LLC was vital to its success, allowing it to take decisive
action, remain flexible and creative, and avoid the bureaucratic red tape of normal
ministerial operations. Furthermore, the constant strengthening of the YTEPP
management, as well as its flexible, adaptive, and creative nature, created conditions
that make the sustainability of the project quite likely.
* The Career Enhancement program, with its emphasis on increasing literacy and
numeracy skills, as well as lifeskills development and behavioral change, is probably
the most vital aspect of the YTEPP's success. Evidence, both from employers and
clients, repeatedly points to this importance. This program should be further
strengthened in future projects, and the NTA should take this lesson into account
when developing and implementing its training policy.
* The lack of consistent financial and technical assistance for graduates of the
Microenterprise Development Program hindered the success of those graduates, as
did a lack of institutional support from outside of YTEPP. Despite those hurdles,
though, the program has continued to grow. Future operations, particularly in areas
where self-employment is not a popular option, should allow substantial time for
microenterprise development to take off.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROJECT
(LOAN 3328-TR)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Project Objectives and Description
1.    Project Objectives: The project was to assist the Government to improve the
design, delivery and effectiveness of YTEPP, which offers education and training and
other support services to youth to enhance their employability and self-employment
prospects. This was achieved by pursuing four key objectives: (i) to improve the quality
and relevance of education and training for employment through the development of
curriculum, training of instructors and provision of equipment for training facilities and
various training programs; (ii) to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire
work experience in private enterprises or public agencies to facilitate their first entry into
the labor market; (iii) to promote self-employment initiatives of youth through self-
employment and small business training and the linking of a network of credit institutions
capable of providing loans for small businesses; and (iv) to strengthen the management of
the YTEPP Program to enhance the effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to
program, monitor and evaluate training and post-training support operations and their
impact on youth employment.
2.    Project Components: The objectives of the project were to be attained through
three components. The first component, "Education and Training" (US$19.0 million)
would assist YTEPP in improving the design of its education and training courses,
upgrading the quality of its teaching staff, and providing supplementary instructional
equipment and materials. The second component, "Post-training Assistance" (US$3.3
million) would support, with parallel co-financing by the private sector, work experience
placements for trainees in order to facilitate their first entry into the labor market, and
promote youth self-employment initiatives. The third component, "Program
Management Strengthening" (US$9.6 million) would strengthen management of
YTEPP's training programs, establish project monitoring and evaluation systems and
support a labor market information system (LMIS) to assist with planning of training.
3.    Linkage with Sector Strategies: IBRD's overall strategy for Trinidad and Tobago
supports the Government's program of broad-based economic diversification as the basis
for sustainable reductions in poverty and unemployment. The YTEPP fits nicely within
the government's development agenda, which includes the challenge of strengthening the



2
human resource base and reducing unemployment and poverty. The IBRD strategy for
assistance in the social sectors strongly emphasizes human resource development, as
poverty reduction is closely related to job creation through broad-based growth and
increased labor productivity. As part of this strategy, IBRD is currently financing loans
for the Basic Education Project (US$50 million), the Water Sector Institutional
Strengthening Project (US$25 million), and the Business Expansion Project (US$27
million). YTEPP is the cornerstone institution for the GORTT's vocational-technical
(voc-tech) training efforts. These efforts are being centralized under the National
Training Agency (NTA), only recently launched by the newly-created Ministry of
Information, Communication, Training, and Distance Learning. The Government's plan
is to capitalize on YTEPP's experience to inform other levels of training, while YTEPP
continues as the primary provider of Level I-II skills training.
4.    Background: YTEPP was created by the Government in 1988 as an emergency,
temporary program to prepare youth for employment. This program was part of a wider
Government response to the economic crisis of the 1980s, which saw a decline in output,
reductions in real per capita income and in Government expenditures in the social sectors,
and a sharp increase in unemployment. Despite growth in the informal sector, which
absorbed a large number of workers, youth employment remained one of the country's
most serious social problems, with large numbers unemployed. The unemployed and idle
youth were less employable than retrenched workers because of their lack of skills,
experience, and poor attitudes towards work. These attitudes, as well as the high rates of
youth idleness and withdrawal from the labor market, are partially explained by the poor
job prospects open to youth. However, it was also widely held in Trinidad and Tobago
that many youth were reluctant to do menial work for low wages. Many youth are able to
hold out for better jobs because of the support given by family networks. Despite
difficulties for youth in finding wage employment, many had jobs in the service, trade,
agriculture and manufacturing sectors; youth also made up about 25 percent of self-
employed workers in the late 1980s.
II.   Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    During its implementation, and as a result of the mid-term restructuring of the
project, YTEPP fully met its quantitative targets. Over the course of the project, YTEPP
established 29 part-time centers, plus 5 full-time centers and various community-based
programs on both Trinidad and Tobago. On average, 5,000 students per cycle were
accepted, with between 3,000-4,000 graduating. A total of 49,064 clients graduated over
the life of the project, 41,066 from center-based programs, 5,203 from community-based,
and 2,726 in microentrepreneurship (of which 69 were trained in community-based
centers). 2,076 clients received work experience placements, or about 5 percent of all
graduates. Of the total number of vocational skills graduates, 35,446 also graduated from
the Career Enhancement training subcomponent; 6,566 received special tutoring in
literacy and numeracy over the life of the project. In addition, the management capacity
of YTEPP increased steadily over the course of the project, and its programming,
monitoring and evaluation activities were consistently of high quality.



3
6.    The other two development objectives were partially met-the shortfall is
primarily due to the fact that these objectives were out of the control of the project. It is
the YTEPP's creative initiatives in the face of these problems, though, that convert these
potential problems into successes. Originally, it was intended that YTEPP graduates
would be placed through the National Training Board (NTB) for work experience or
intemships. However, in the face of negative economic growth, the NTB was unable to
place the projected number of clients. In response, YTEPP created its own Employment
Bureau, seeking out linkages with public and private agencies to place an increasing
number of graduates. In the case of the promotion of self-employment initiatives, the
project called for the Small Business Development Company (SBDC) to provide
financial and technical support to graduates through the Youth Enterprise and Support
Systems (YESS). The rapid elimination of the YESS, however, required YTEPP to step
into the breach and seek other ways to support graduating micro-entrepreneurs. While
the activities designed to achieve these two development objectives were not carried out,
the YTEPP managed to preserve the intent of the activities, providing very viable
alternatives to those originally planned. These creative responses lead to a satisfactory
achievement of the development objectives.
7.    As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the
project was rated satisfactory in every major area. The project maintained satisfactory or
highly satisfactory ratings since its approval. The project was well targeted to the
neediest clients (80 percent of participants have been drawn from uneducated/unskilled
groups), and has been largely demand-driven and locally executed. The technical
operation of the project management and the training centers was good and largely free
from political interference (see below for discussion of local political pressures). YTEPP
was well managed, with highly qualified and dedicated staff, and a very active Board of
Directors under the Limited Liability Company structure that has kept the YTEPP
Company outside of the normal political channels. The Chairman of the Board and the
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), along with the Board and staff, have been freed of much
of the bureaucratic red tape that might limit occur if the project was located under a
government ministry. Despite early, stringent targets for project performance, the design
of the project appears to have been appropriate to achieve the stated objectives. This
statement is further supported by the results of the four tracer studies carried out by the
project, which provide evidence to the project's success. Nonetheless, the project started
slowly and required two extra years to reach its objectives.
8.    The Mid-term Review (November 1994) concluded that original targets were too
ambitious or too stringent (SAR figures, for example, did not factor attrition into its
projections). While the YTEPP had not met the original targets, the mission nonetheless
viewed the project as a success: demand exceeded projections; participation in YTEPP
increased income of the lowest decile of income earners; over 40 percent of YTEPP
graduates surveyed chose to continue their studies; and graduates improved their morale,
motivation, and literacy and numeracy skills. Furthermore, project management had
steadily improved, gaining greater organizational efficiency and an impressive ability to
collect and analyze data. Building upon these very positive aspects of the project, the



4
mission sparked a restructuring of the project with its recommendations that the YTEPP
address, among other things, high attrition rates, the low percentage of job placements for
graduates, linkages with the public and private sectors, a strategy for sustainability, and
the need to offer more market-oriented courses.
9.    Four tracer studies were carried out over the course of the project, beginning in
1991, the results of which further indicate the successes of YTEPP's efforts. These
studies were designed to provide the YTEPP, its Board of Directors, the GORTT and
international financiers with informnation on the labor market absorption of YTEPP
graduates as compared to a control group. (For detailed information on the methodology
and results, please refer to the Appendices to this report.) The studies' findings include
the following: (i) unemployment rates of YTEPP graduates are consistently lower than
the rate in the same cohort of the general population; (ii) 58 percent of YTEPP graduates
aged 15-19 participate in the labor market, as opposed to 32.4 percent of the same group
in the general population; (iii) the absorption rate of female YTEPP graduates increased
46.7 percent between 1993-96, a 32.8 percentage point gain over the 13.9 percent rate of
the control group; (iv) likewise, over the same period, the absorption rate of male YTEPP
graduates increased 51.8 percent, a 20.3 percent gain over the control group's increase
(31.5 percent); (v) post-YTEPP earnings are directly linked to participation in the
program (with the most significant impact on the least educated and least skilled group);
(vi) a higher proportion of YTEPP graduates opt for self-employment as compared to the
control group; (vii) YTEPP's gains are especially notable given that the average YTEPP
applicant has a marginally lower academic background as compared to the control group;
and (viii) YTEPP has been successful in attracting two of the most vulnerable groups in
society and enhancing their employability: women and incarcerated men.
XII.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors generally subject to government control.
10.   Despite general government support to the YTEPP and its activities, the project
has lacked an institutional framework, virtually since its inception. In its earliest
incarnation, the YTEPP was responsible to four different ministries, which provided
budget and other support. This unworkable arrangement eventually was superseded by
other arrangements, and the YTEPP has spent the last several years under the Ministry of
Education, for policy purposes. Only weeks prior to the end of Bank financing, the
YTEPP was moved over to the Ministry of Information,
Communication, Training, and Distance Learning. While the GORTT has made
advances in developing a plan for its National Training Agency, of which YTEPP will be
a key part, the lack of this type of infrastructure probably limited the advances that
YTEPP could have made.
11.   The majority of YTEPP's activity took place in part-time centers, primarily
schools rented from the Ministry of Education (MOE) for TT$500,000 per year. While
the MOE facilitated the YTEPP's access to these facilities, this situation created frequent



5
problems, as school principals required the YTEPP to hire their staff, often in positions
for which they were not qualified. While teacher-trainers may have enjoyed greater
access to the facilities than an outsider may have had, given the trust that the principal put
in them, the quality of instruction sometime suffered-particularly in skills training.
These human resource issues became even more complicated in small communities,
where it was possible to fire employees, but virtually impossible to replace them and
have the replacement be able to do their job. This situation, along with the YTEPP's and
the GORTT's inability to find solutions, is pushing the YTEPP to concentrate more on
full-time centers (which are normally loaned to YTEPP by various private and public
agencies), where they are able to have greater control over the facility and the activities
within.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
12.   Institutional. YTEPP staff has been highly qualified, very committed to the
institution and its goals, and has experienced relatively low turnover in key positions,
providing critical continuity. The framework within which the YTEPP staff works,
however, is particularly important. The project was set up as a limited liability company
(LLC), a corporate body in its own right. In this structure, the Board of Directors, under
the direction of the Chairman of the Board, provide the policy direction of the agency,
which is seen as a parastatal organization. The Board also advertises, interviews, and
recommends the CEO, who is the head of the management structure of YTEPP. The
Board itself is appointed for a two-year term by the shareholders, and generally changes
with the govermnent; they meet monthly. Under this arrangement, YTEPP has been able
to avoid the red tape normally associated with location within a ministerial department,
for example. As such, YTEPP has been able to act decisively in setting its course, and
making alterations when necessary. It has also been able to set its own salary scale and
do its own hiring, firing, promotions-all with relatively little government intervention.
13.   Skills Training. Initially, the LMIS was intended to allow the project to program
its skills training to meet market demand. However, with the demise of the LMIS,
YTEPP developed its own study through the Research Unit. While not foolproof, the
system assisted the project in selecting courses that would nearly meet the demands of
clients and the marketplace. Additionally, partially in response to the variable
qualification of trainers, YTEPP developed training programs for voc-tech instructors to
ensure a more uniform quality of instruction. The level of quality achieved by YTEPP
was such that a number of private firms have approached YTEPP to carry out skills and
career enhancement (see below) training for new and current employees. YTEPP sees
both the private sector and governmental agencies as potential new clients for their
activities. Furthermore, the shift from nine-month cycles to six-month cycles (both part-
time with 240 contact hours) utilizing modules for training aided in the reduction of
attrition from the program. Clients preferred a shorter, more intensive program of study
to the longer one.
14.   Career Enhancement: Training in both skills and career enhancement is provided
to clients in tandem. While the skills training introduces clients to the basics necessary to



6
begin in their particular field, counselors in career enhancement focus on practical skills
and the development of self-esteem in each client. Applicants to YTEPP are given
entrance examinations to determine their educational level. Those scoring at a literacy
level of 10 years or below, or those scoring less than 40 percent on the numeracy exam,
are placed in the Special Version Program, which provides more intensive and individual
instruction-which program also has seen large increases in the mean literacy scores of
participants. Other clients are placed in the Core Program. Both focus on literacy and
numeracy skills, as well as lifeskills development and behavioral change. Counselors
must deal with a wide variety of social problems, including drug abuse, domestic
violence, and a lack of motivation and self-esteem. Responses from employers and
clients alike indicate that career enhancement training is successful, and even more
important than skills training. Anecdotal evidence from those hiring YTEPP graduates
reflects that employers would rather hire someone punctual and with a positive attitude,
even if they had fewer skills than another employee. Skills may be taught by the
employer, they indicate, but attitude cannot.
15.   Microenterprise Development. There is a bias in Trinidad & Tobago towards
wage employment, leaving self-employment as a last resort. YTEPP, therefore, faced an
uphill battle in the development of its program to encourage microentrepreneurship. The
Entrepreneur Development Service offered training in the development of business plans
and in how to approach financial agencies. However, the structure intended to support
and coordinate youth microenterprises, YESS, only lasted about ten months. In 1994,
YTEPP named a Business Development Officer, a Support Services Officer, and a Field
Project Officer to facilitate activities. Despite YTEPP's best efforts, challenges remain,
particularly financing. Traditional means of financing via commercial banks are not very
viable; the SBDC provides support of up to 85 percent of the cost, but it requires 15
percent up front-an impossibility for most YTEPP clients. FundAid, however, has
proved to be a useful source of financing, providing group guarantees, allowing YTEPP
clients to apply in groups of two. Despite weaknesses in financing, there continues to be
demand for YTEPP training in microenterprise development; training is provided in two
programs per year, with 144 contact hours. YTEPP has also opened this program to non-
YTEPP clients, which has proven to be a successful experiment.
16.   Private Sector Linkages. YTEPP has been both resourceful and creative in its
efforts to develop relationships with the private sector in Trinidad & Tobago. Several
companies have requested that YTEPP provide training for their staff, including the
yacht-service industry in the northwest peninsula. Furthermore, several companies who
have previously hired YTEPP graduates have provided the facilities for full-time training
centers, frequently also providing technical support and equipment. It is in these ways
that YTEPP is seeking to broaden and make more sustainable its operations.
IV.   Project Sustainability
17.   With the combination of government and private sector interest in the future of
the project, prospects for the sustainability of the YTEPP are substantial. YTEPP has



7
developed very good managerial capacity, and has proven its ability to diversify training
to cater to market needs without a major increase to recurrent expenditures. It is able to
service a range of different groups in a variety of sectors. In fact, it has delivered
customized training programs to state agencies (including the National Energy Skill
Centre, for which it upgraded and operates the center), non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), and other groups. The GORTT has apparently recognized YTEPP's success,
and the continuing demand for its services, with the inclusion of YTEPP in the newly-
created NTA under the newly-created Ministry of Information, Communication, Training
and Distance Learning. Despite the importance given to training by the government, the
future success of YTEPP as part of the NTA will depend on the extent to which the
government retains the most successful aspects of the project. Key among these is the
institutional structure of the YTEPP as an LLC, providing a great deal of necessary
independence and flexibility to adjust to a changing market, new technologies, and new
management practices. Given the project's survival as an LLC, however, it seems likely
that the government would allow it to continue, and better still, use it as a model for other
levels of training within the NTA.
V.    Bank Performance
18.   Bank performance was satisfactory at every stage of the project cycle, despite a
certain optimism in the project design, in terms of targets set. It should be noted,
however, that strong performance and collaboration by YTEPP facilitated Bank
involvement. The relevant technical assistance was provided as needed, and a very
cordial relationship has been maintained with project staff and with the GORTT.
Particular mention is due to the mid-term mission, which provided a thorough, balanced,
and constructive analysis of the project's past performance and options for the future. It
was on the basis of this work done by the Bank and the project that YTEPP was
positioned for the continued growth of its success.
19.   The total time allocation on pre-board activities was 148.5 staff weeks (SW)
during the FY 90-91 period, above the Bank-wide average of 87 for project preparation.
The average time allocated to supervision from both headquarters and the field was 24
SW per year, including pre-board and completion activities (as compared to the LAC
average of 19.5 in social projects). The cost of supervision was below the Bank-wide
average-the average supervision cost for YTEPP was US$25,546 per year, as compared
to the Bank-wide average cost of social sector supervision of roughly US$65,000 per
year. On average, one supervision mission per year was carried out, in which the task
manager was accompanied by various staff and consultants, including a financial
specialist, technical and vocational education specialists, and impact evaluation
specialists. Supervision missions examined an array of administrative and technical
issues, though special attention was granted to the tracer studies, quality of instruction,
sustainability, and coordination of the project with line ministries.



8
VI.   Borrower Performance
20.   Borrower performance was satisfactory for both identification/preparation and
implementation. YTEPP staff has been consistently highly qualified and dedicated, and
its managerial capacity has steadily increased over the course of the project. Despite the
lack of a formal framework in which the project could operate, the GORTT proved a
reliable supporter of YTEPP and its activities. Most remarkable is that, in spite of
political pressures, YTEPP was allowed to remain a corporate body outside the normal
governmental and ministerial channels. Audits, monitoring indicators, and evaluation
reporting were generally complete and punctual. Visiting missions were given full
support and extensive field visits were encouraged and well facilitated.
21.   YTEPP personnel have been particularly flexible and creative, not only in
response to client and market demands, but also in response to Bank recommendations.
The Research Unit was a very reliable source of information on project performance,
labor statistics, and even national economic information. Financial management of the
project strengthened, and was able to overcome delays in reimbursements from the
Special Account that had been plaguing the project for some time.
22.   One primary reason for the two-year extension of the project, in addition to
allowing further time for revised implementation of training activities, was to allow the
development of a plan for the sustainability of tech-voc training activities. The Bank and
the GORTT agreed that some of the remaining balance of the loan could be used to
finance activities designed to further sustainability, and to create the NTA. This
financing, however, was dependent on the GORTT, via the MOE, developing a detailed
plan of action satisfactory to the Bank. Unfortunately, this plan was not developed on a
schedule that allowed the Bank to provide financing, which was thus sacrificed. It
appears, previous delays notwithstanding, that the GORTT is dedicated to developing the
NTA and preserving the experiences of YTEPP in this new context. A Board of
Directors for the NTA has now been named, including YTEPP's Chairman of the Board;
the NTA Board Chairman has also been named, and the CEO position has been
advertised.
VII. Assessment of Outcome
23.   The outcome of this project is judged to be satisfactory. The project achieved its
major development objectives with few shortcomings, albeit not always in the manner
first projected and with some significant delays. Shortfalls were generally outside the
control of the project, and YTEPP itself proved able to correct these in a creative manner.
The project was crucial in supporting the GORTT's poverty alleviation efforts by
enhancing the employability and earning potential of a segment of the market not
previously considered employable. It has also increased the acceptability of self-
employment as an alternative to wage employment, thus further increasing employment



9
opportunities. A high proportion of resources reached poor communities and individuals,
due to the very nature of the training program and the location of centers. Finally, the
project successfully supported the creation of stronger managerial capacity, not only for
central and local project staff, but also for center managers and instructors.
VIII. Current and Future Operations
24.   Trinidad and Tobago's Basic Education Project (Ln. 3956-TR) was approved in
1995, and there was a previous education sector loan for US$20 million in 1979. Despite
its clear linkages to education, and despite the fact that the responsible ministry for the
project was the MOE for much of YTEPP's life, the project was never really considered
an education project. Part of the reason for this may have been its nature as a Limited
Liability Company, and its operational independence from the MOE. Still, according to
the GORTT at the time, the MOE had responsibility for policy making for the training
field. The MOE's success at this important task was limited at best, thereby placing
some limitations to YTEPP's development, and losing an interesting opportunity to
establish linkages between training and education-particularly secondary education.
Neither did the Bank strenuously seek out these linkages with the preparation of the Basic
Education Project, however. With the creation of the Ministry for Information,
Communication, Training, and Distance Learning, the GORTT has again separated
training from education, but the founding of the NTA provides exciting opportunities for
the consolidation of the country's training efforts.
IX.   Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Operations
25.   Some of the key lessons learned from YTEPP's experience and recommendations
for future operations may be summarized as follows:
*  The expansion of linkages with private industry, government departments, and public
companies is key for project sustainability, both in terms of hiring YTEPP graduates,
and in contracting YTEPP services. Coordination is also important with related line
ministries (e.g., the MOE, which provided access to facilities, equipment, human
resources and technical expertise).
*  It is important to delineate areas of responsibility for the vocational-technical training
field, particularly with the creation of the NTA and the increasing training activities
of private groups. Absence of institutional framework probably limited the advances
that YTEPP could have made; a national training policy would be useful in
establishing the players and their respective roles.
*  The YTEPP's structure as an LLC was vital to its success, allowing it to take decisive
action, remain flexible and creative, and avoid the bureaucratic red tape of normal
ministerial operations. Furthermnore, the constant strengthening of the YTEPP
management, as well as its flexible, adaptive, and creative nature, created conditions



10
that make the sustainability of the project quite likely.
*  Accurate and timely labor market inforrnation would have facilitated the selection of
courses that better responded to demand from clients as well as industry.
* Alternatives to hiring unqualified secondary school teachers should be explored with
the MOE to allow the continuation of some part-time YTEPP centers.
*  The shift from nine-month to six-month cycles (both part-time with 240 contact
hours) aided in the reduction of attrition from the program. In addition, the adoption
of modules made training more flexible, and facilitated the movement from one level
to another.
*  The Career Enhancement program, with its emphasis on increasing literacy and
numeracy skills, as well as lifeskills development and behavioral change, is probably
the most vital aspect of the YTEPP's success. Evidence, both from employers and
clients, repeatedly points to this importance. This program should be further
strengthened in future projects, and the NTA should take this lesson into account
when developing and implementing its training policy.
•  The lack of consistent financial and technical assistance for graduates of the
Microenterprise Development Program hindered the success of those graduates, as
did a lack of institutional support from outside of YTEPP. Despite those hurdles,
though, the program has continued to grow. Future operations, particularly in areas
where self-employment is not a popular option, should allow substantial time for
microenterprise development to take off.



11
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives      Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
(if)           (v')        (if)            (if)
Macro policies                    O              O                           El
Sector policies                   O0 El                      O        
Financial objectives              O              O                           0
Institutional development         0              O           O               Ol
Physical objectives               O              O           Ql              0
Poverty reduction                 0              O           O               O
Gender issues                    01              0           0               0
Other social objectives           0              a           al             ol
Environmental objectives          O              O           O               0
Public sector management          0              O           O               O
Private sector development        O              0           [1              0
B.   Project sustainability                 Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
(if)           (if)           (if)
Sustainability                          0              O              O
Highly
C.   Bank performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(if)           (if)           (if)
Identification                          E              0              El
Preparation assistance                  El             0E 0
Appraisal                               E              0              E
Supervision                             E              0              E
Highly
D.   Borrower performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(if)           (if)           (if)
Identification                          E              E0             O
Preparation assistance                  E0                            El
Appraisal                               E              El             E
Supervision                             O              0              E
Highly                                   Highly
E.   Assessment of outcome          satisfactory     Satisfactory  Deficient   unsatisfactory
(if)           (if)        (if)           (if)



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title               Purpose                 Year of         Status
Approval                    l
Preceding
Operations in
lending program:                                                                  l
Loan 1722-TR         Education III                      1979           Closed
Loan 3152-TR         SAL                                1990            Closed
Loan 3153-TR         Technical Assistance Loan          1990            Closed
Following operations
in lending program:                                                               l
Loan 3432-TR         Business Expansion                 1991         In operation
Loan 3784-TR         Water Sector Institutional         1994         In operation
Strengthening
Loan 3956-TR         Basic Education Project            1995         In operation
Table 3: IBRD Project Timetable
Date Planned     Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     11/14/89         02/12/90
Preparation                                                     5/01/90
Appraisal                                                       10/22/90
Negotiations                                                    03/15/91
Board Presentation                                              5/21/91
Signing                                                         8/29/91
Effectiveness                                                   10/18/91
Midterm Assessment                                              9-10/94
Loan Closing                                   6/30/96          6/30/98
Final Disbursement                                              8/19/98



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91        FY92        FY 93      FY94      FY95       FY 96     FY97       FY98
Appraisal estimate               2.1         5.4         9.6        13.8      18.0       20.7       n/a       n/a
Actual                            0          4.8         9.1        9.8       11.7       15.5      17.3       19.2
Actual as percent of estimate     0         88.9%       94.8%      71.0%     65.0%      74.8%       n/a       n/a
Date of final disbursement: August 19, 1998
Tables 5-6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(Cycles IV-XII)
GENERAL INDICATORS                    Cycle IV                Cycle V                 Cycle VI               Cycle VII*
Total Number of Applicants      Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected      Actual    Projected    Actual
Center-based (VST)              13000      11198       12000       12883       12000        9970        12000       10125
Community Based                 1000        1701       1000         1279        1000         538        1000    _
Microentrepreneurship             2000       1047        1000        1098        2500         1747        2500
Total Number of Trainees
Center-based (VST)              10000      8700        10000       9850        10000        8240        10000       8837
Community Based                 1000        1701       1000         1279        1000         538        1000                 I
Micro-entrepreneurship          1500        1252       2500         1098        2500        1747        2500         410
Total Number of Graduates                                                                                                     I
Center-based (VST)              8500        5314       8500         5133        7500        5597        7500        5683
Community Based                  750        897         750         336         800         290         1000                 l
Micro-entrepreneurship           700         0         2000          0          2000         862        2000         151
*Data for Cycle VII are limited and unreliable, due to data lost in a change of government and management.



0ENERCAL INDICTORS                   Cycle VIII              Cycle IX                 Cycle X
,otal Number ofApplicants       Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual
Center-based (VST)              6000       6062        6000        5716         6000        6749
Community Based                 1120        592        1120        2029*        1120
Micro (Community Based)          110        n/a         110         35*         110          *
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-    500      289         500        416*         500
based)
Total Number of Trainees
Center-based (VST)              5000       4674        5000        5103         5000        5229
Community Based                  975        523         975        1272*        975
Micro (Community Based)          90         n/a         90           35          90          34
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-    400      289         800         891         400         674
based)                                                                                              I
Total Number of Graduates
Center-based (VST)              3500       3765        3650        3829         3750        4429
Community Based                  634        132         653         238         672         957
Micro (Community Based)          59         n/a         60          35           62          34
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-    300      193         616         341         316         506
based)                      I           I_I                                             I
*Figures represent Cycles IX and X combined



GENERAL INDICATORS                    Cycle XI                Cycle XII
Projected    Actual    Projected     Actual
Total Number of Applicants
Center-based (VST)               6000        6513        6000        5728
Community Based                  1120        1539        1120
Micro (Community Based)           110         48         110
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-  500         234         500          659
based)
Total Number of Trainees
Center-based (VST)               5000        5614        5000        4839
Community Based                  975        1539*        975           *
Micro (Community Based)           90          -           90          740
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-  800         759         400          715
based)
Total Number of Graduates                                                                                                             @
Center-based (VST)               3750        3881        4000        3435
Community Based                  692         2203        712          150
Micro (Community Based)           64          0           66           0
Micro-entrepreneurship (Center-  648         504         332          100
based)
*These figures represent Cycles XI and XII combined



CAREER ENHANCEMENT TRAINING AND JOB SKILLS SUBCOMPONENTS
I (i.E. TRAINING/JOB SKILLS            Cycle IV               Cycle V                 Cycle VI                Cycle VII
V_ _______________l:_Projected   Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual
Career Enhancement Training
# of Counselors hired/trained      200        169        200          146         200          72         200
# of Applicants given diagnostic  8000       8451        9000        6499        10000       7819        10000
test
| # of trainees completing:      .___._.                                                                                   -
Career Enhancement Core         9000        5283       9000        4226         6750        3523        6800        4705
_[program                      _____               _
Special tutoring in             1000        175        1000         550         750         770         700           -
literacy/numeracy
# oftutors hired and trained        450        368         450         400         450         450         500          382
(Cycle IV-VI)
ft of Graduates Career            8500       5458        8500        4776        7500        4293         7500        4705 
Enhancement                                                                                                                       a'
Job Skills Training                                                  ___
# of tutors hired and trained      570        446         580         475         580          -          n/a
(Cycles IV-VII)
# of new curriculum guides and job  570        0          35           0          500         434          0           521
sheets produced_
| of centers provided equipment    n/a         0          42          42          42          42           43          42
L (percent installation)
# of trainees certified           7500       4945        7500        5155        7500         1813        7500        2449
|# of Graduates Vocational Skills  8500      5314        8500        5133        9000        5597         9000        5683
Training                                                                               _



CGE. TRAINING/JOB SKILLS            Cycle VfII*              Cycle IX                 Cycle X
Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projeced      Actual
Career Enhancement Training                                                                           l
# of Counselors hired/trained
# of Applicants given diagnostic  5500       6062        5500        4408        5500        4565
test
# of trainees completing:                                                                             l
Career Enhancement Core         3080        4495       3212        3150         3300        4565
program                                                                                             l
Special tutoring in              420        1349        438         945         450         1370
literacy/numeracy                                                                                   l
# of tutors hired and trained     280         232                                                     l
# of tutors hired                                        280          222         280         230
# of tutors trained                                       280         149         280          26
# of Graduates Career             3500       3349        3650        3150        3750         3861
Enhancement                                                                   _                                                   _
Job Skills Training                                                                      _
# of tutors hired (Cycles VIII-X)  333        318                                                     l
# of tutors hired                                         333         331         333         296
# of tutors trained                                      333          289         333          58
# of trainees certified             -         1671         -         2272          -          2547
# of Graduates Vocational Skills  3500       3765        3650        3829        3750         4429
Training                                                                                              l
*Indicators were somewhat altered as of this cycle, as a result of the YTEPP's "Proposal for Unused Funds," June 1995.



C,E. TRAINING/JOB SKILLS             Cycle XI              Cycle XII
.___________________________  Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual
Career Enhancement Training                                                 I
# of Applicants given diagnostic  5500      4517        5500        3278
test                                                                        l
# of trainees completing:                            _
Career Enhancement Core         3300       2353       3520        1994
program
Special tutoring in             450        767         480        640
literacy/numeracy                                                         l
# of tutors hired and trained     280        230        280         292
(Cycle IV-VI)                                                             l
#of Graduates Career             3750       3120        4000        2734
Enhancement
Job Skills Training
# oftutors hired                  333        341        333         292            .c
# of trainees certified            -        2388         -          2083
# of Graduates Vocational Skills  3750      3881        4000        3435
Training                                                    =



COMPONENTS
COMPONENTS                    |       Cycle IV                Cycle V                Cycle VI                 Cycle VII
Community Based Training        Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual    Projected      Actual    Projected    Actual
#of trainees                       825       1701        1000        1279        1500         538         1000         n/a
#of projects                       55         104         150         90          100          41         150          n/a
#of tutors                         55         179         150         91          300          54          150         n/a
#of graduates                      500        897         750         336        1125         290         800          n/a
Post-Training Support: Work
Experience Subcomponent
# of work experience placements   1500        307        1500         355         1500        138         1500
Post-Training Support for Self-
Employment Subcomponent
# of trainees                     2000        1252       2500        1098        2500         1747        2500         151
# of tutors hired and trained      60         72          158         74          158          87          158         31
# of trainees completing course    700        955         700         994        2000         862         2000          -
with self-employed pr???                                                                               _    _
# of financial institutions providing  5       2           5           0           5           0            5           0
credit for youth entrepreneurs
Management Strengthening
LMIS reports produced              2*          2           4           1           4           0           4            0
Tracer studies completed            2          2           1           0           1           1           0            0
Special evaluation studies          2          4           2           8           -           9            -           6
completed
*The Social Sectors Unit, the responsible body, was dismantled in 1992



CIMPQNENS SCycle VIII                                        CyclenX                  CycleX
Commnty Based Training          Projected    Acual    Projected    Actual    Projected      Actual
# of trainees                      975        523         975        1272         975         957
# of projects                      65         35          65          41          65           37
# of tutors                        195        95          195         47          195          37
# of graduates                     634        656         653        1148*        672
Post-Training Support: Work
Experience Subcomponent
# of work experience placements    250        247         250         187         250         154
# of work experience placements    60         78          75          126         75          135
via YTEPP Support Services
Post-Training Supportfor Self-
Employment Subcomponent
# of trainees                      500        193          -
# of tutors hired and trained      40         31          40          35          40           35
# of trainees completing course    300         -          616         715         316         482
with self-employed proposals
# of trainees successfully using    -          -          50           7          60           4
business incubators
Management Strengthening
Full-time Managers                  4          2           2           4           0           0
Project Officers                    I          0           1           2           1           0
Field Supervisors                   I          I           I           0           0           0
Manager, Information Technology
Monitoring and Evaluation
Tracer studies                      1          I           -           -           1           I
Special evaluation studies         2           2           1          2            2           0
completed
LMIS Reports                        1          0           2           0           0           0
*Figure represents Cycles IX and X combined



I COMPONEM7S                          Cycle XI               Cycle XHI
Cominity Based Training         Projected    Actual    Projected    Actual
# of trainees                      975       1539*       975                 l
# of projects                      65         100*        65                 l
# of tutors                        195       200*         195                l
# of graduates                     692       2203*        712                l
Post-Training Support: Work
Experience Subcomponent
# of work experience placements   250          -         250           -
# of work experience placements    75         184         85          165
via YTEPP Support Services                                                   l
Post-Training Support for Self-
Employment Subcomponent                                                      l
# of tutors hired and trained      40         34          40           -
# of trainees completing course    648        281         332         154
with self-employed proposals   _          _
# of trainees successfully using   75          1          75           1
business incubators
Management Strengthening
Manager, Information Technology    n/a        n/a          1           1
LMIS reports produced               0          0           0           0
Tracer studies completed            0          0           0           0
Special evaluation studies          -          -      
completed                                 I    I    I
*These figures represent Cycles XI and XII combined



QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENTS
Cycle VIII               Cycle IX                  Cycle X
Curriculum Unit                   Projected    Actual    Projected      Actual    Projected      Actual
Tutor Manual:
YST                                84          84          4            78           -           90
CE                                  2          2            1           0            -            2
MEP                                .-           -                        0           -
Safety Manuals - General             7                        7           1            -
Operation Work Sheets (VST)           -          -          1680          0            -            0
Diagnostic Tests:
VST                                14          14          14           13           -            0
CE                                 2           2            -           0            -            0
Occupational Information - VST       42          13          42           77           -            0
Audio Visuals                        10          2           10           0            10           0
Trainee Personal Record:
VST                                84          84          77           0           77            0                                    PQ
CE                                  -          -            2           0            2            0
MEP                                 -           -           I            0           1            0
Resources Guides (per course)        42          33          42           77          77           77
Performance Tests (per modular        -          I           13           0            12          12
unit)                                                                                                      l
Training Centers
Full-time Training Centers           42                                   4            5            5



23
Table 7: Studies Completed
January 1994 - June 1997
1TVITMTL STA TED 
STUDY                   PlJP U .0SE           STATUS                   OUTCOME
The Effectiveness of      To evaluate the           Study and      Revised Promotional Strategy
Promotional Strategies    effectiveness of the various  document on
(June 1994)               promotional strategies used  most
for the registration of  successful
Cycle V.                  promotional
strategies
Field Audit of the        Determination of the      Utilized by    Instrumental in promoting
Implementation of the     success of the tutors in the   Vocational  accountability as it pertains to the
Continuous Assessment     implementation of the     Skills (VST)    utilization of proper Assessment
Instruments & Attendance   continuous Assessment   and Career      Instruments.
Registers (June 1994)     procedures with the correct  Enhancement
instruments.             Departments
Needs Assessment Report   To provide a Description    A supplement   The decision making process of the
(Cycle VI] - August 1994)   of the Macro-Economic    to the in-house   YTEPP program as it pertains to course
Context in which the      Labor Market   selection proceeded to stem from
organization and the      Study for      responses to market signals.
upcoming Training Cycle    Cycle VI
l  re located and identify the  (19:43-1994)
specific industries,
occupation and products
for training emphasis both
at National and Local
levels.
Proposal for the YTEPP to   To assess the           A position     Extension granted.
continue and utilize     implementation of the      paper on the
"unused funds" for the    program and chronicle the   status of the
period 19%-1998 (July    structural changes         Educational
1995)                    recommended by the        System in
World Bank. Furthermore,  Trinidad and
YTEPP's response to these   Tobago
recommendations was
outlined. A case was made
for accessing the unspent
balance of the Bank loan.
Labor Market Information   To determine trends in the   The Tripartite    YTEPP's labor market studies
System (LMIS) (October    Labor Market, employment  Labor Market   provided key labor market information
1994)                    and earnings prospects for   System was   on the macro economy, advertised jobs
all levels of graduates  discontinued.    for YTEPP trainees and graduates.
entering the job market.  YTEPP began
conducting its
own Labor
Market
Studies.
Attrition: Cycle IV (1991)   To define YTEPP's      Facilitated the   Established the proportions of dropouts
definition of "attrition" and  establishment   due to the Career Factor.
to determine attrition levels  of "realistic"
for Cycle IV.            projections for
enrollment and
graduates.                                         l



24
.    INITIAL STATED
STUDY                   PURPOSE               STA TUS                  OUTCOME
Report of a Needs         To map company            Established     Led to the establishment of the
Assessment Study of       manpower needs to         areas of       Curriculum Unit.
manpower and skill       facilitate the development   prospective
requirements for YTEPP    of new curricula To map   employment
curriculum development    national manpower         and compared
(October 1991)            requirements and survey   wage and self-
the needs of the informal    employment
sector.                  prospects.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                        Actual
(US$ nillion)                        (US$ nillion)           l
Item                Local       Foreign                   Local       Foreign
costs       costs       Total       costs        Costs        Total
Technical Assistance             0.7          0.2         0.9         0.7           0.2         0.9
Equipment/Furniture              0.6          2.6         3.2         0.5           1.6         2.1
Training                         0.9                      0.9         0.5            -          0.5
Materials and Supplies            1.4         0.8         2.2         2.3           1.3         3.6
Salaries                         12.4                     12.4        13.3           -          13.3
Administration                   3.8                      3.8         3.0            -          3.0
Supervision                      2.8                      2.8          1.6           -           1.6
Stipends                          1.4                     1.4         0.8            -          0.8
Total Baseline Costs             24.0         3.6         27.7        22.7          3.1         25.8
Prince Contingencies             3.9          0.4         4.3                                          l
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              28.0         4.0         31.9        22.7          3.1         25.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                         Actual
(USS mfiUion)                         (USS milion)
Local costs   Foreign                Local      Foreign
Item                           costs       Total      costs       Costs           Total
IBR.D                             <20.7                 20.7       _             15.5            15.5
GovernmentofT&T                 11.2                    11.2       9.5                            9.5
TOTAL                           11.2_       20.7        31.9       9.5           1 l5.5 |        25.0



25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Cost per Enrollee presented in US$)
CYCLE X               CYCLE XI              CYCLE XII               CYCLE X                CYCLE XI               CYCLE XII
l_________________  Enrolled   CostlEnr   Enrolled   CosttEnr   Enrolled   CosttEnr   Enrolled   CostlEnr   Enrolled   CosttEnr   Enrolled   Cost/Enr
Applied Arts             419        $146        357        $196        240        $212        345        $177        265        $265        196        $260
Auto Mech. & Repair      358        $199        392        $200        336        $208        308        $232        226        $347        246        $285
Beauty Culture           599        $165        621        $172        495        $135        497        $198        407        $262        398        $168
Construction             289        $188        426        $178        214        $223        243        $224        238        $318        156        $306
Crafts                   163        $208        166        $253        124        $308        144        $236        139        $303         85        $449
Electronics              698        $200        775        $177        661        $183        578        $241        561        $245        519        $233
Family Services          160        $106        141        $219        32         $697        147        $116        103        $300         30        $743
Food Preparation         534        $255        565        $208        420        $265        469        $290        409        $288        334        $334
Garment Construction     652        $250        762        $188        579        $253        538        $303        524        $273        472        $310
Metal Des. & Fab.        411        $198        476        $147        403        $190        352        $232        322        $218        304        $251
SmallBus.Mgmt.           845        $193        839        $160        824        $162        728        $224        634        $212        634        $211
Tourism                   99        $137         94        $119         79        $161         80        $170         53        $212         56        $228
Micro (post-training)    674        $171        759        $148         0         .           506        $228        504        $223        715        $147
Career Enh: Core         4565       $113        3750         -        2895        $168       2900        $178        2353       $199        1994       $244
Career Enh: Basic         0            .        1191       $108         0           -         961        $134        767        $168        640        $174
Career Enh: Cnsing.      605         $84        800         $53        937        $51         n/a          -         n/a          -          n/a         -
Comm. BasedAgric.        975        $300        1419       $154        1539       $159        1900       $154        2180       $100        2203        $99



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Trinidad & Tobago: Youth Training and Employment Partnership Project
Loan 3328-TR
Original       Revised
Covenant               Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Section    type         Status    date            date          Description of covenant   Comments
3.03           9           C         06/30/95                   Semi-Annual Report        In compliance
3.04(a)        9           C         12/07/91                   Report on community       In compliance
based training
3.04(c)         9          C         5/12/95                    Annual training report    Included in the follow-up
to the Mid-Term Review
Recommendation
3.05           10          C                                    MOE to make facilities    No comments.
available to YTEPP
3.06          .5           C                                    YTEPP to be assisted by   No comments.
a procurement agent
3.07            5          C                                    NTB to assist YTEPP in   No comments.
placing 1500 graduates
annually in AIM
program
3.08            5          C                                    Contract YTEPP/SBDC    No comments.
- YESS
3.08            5          C                                    LMIS                      No comments.
3.10(a)        9           C      09/01/91                      Format and schedule for   No comments.
YTEPP internal
reporting
3.10(b)         9          C      09/01/91                      Detailed Monitoring       No comments.
Indicators
4.01            1          C                                    Appointment of auditor    No comments.
6.01(a)        11          C                                    Subsidiary Agreement      No comments.
entered into between
Ministry of Finance and
YTEPP, Ltd.
6.01(b)         5          C                                    Agreement with            No comments.
procurement agents
Key
Covenant types:                                                          Status:
I Accounts/audit                    8  Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/revenue     9  Monitoring, review, and reporting  C  =  covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries     10 Project implementation not covered by  CD =  complied with after delay
3 Flow and utilization of project funds  categories 1-9                  CP =  complied with partially
4 Counterpart funding                I I Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC =  not complied with
5 Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation
executing agency                  12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 Involuntary resettlement          13 Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All Operational Manual Statements were complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
Stage                                        FY
90     91    92   93   94   95   96   97    98    Total
Preparation     83.1   25.4                                             108.5
Appraisal              30.8                                              30.8
Negotiations            5.2                                              5.2
Supervision             4.   15.7  8.2  4.4  13.3  1.6  3.9             74.2
Completion                                                       23.1   51.1
TOTAL           83.1   65.4  15.7  8.2  4.4  13.3  1.6  3.9  23.1   218.7



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                                        <-Performance Rating ->
Month/        of     Days in    Specialized Staff Skills   Implementation   Development
Stage of Project Cycle      Year      Persons    Field          Represented             Status         Objective         Type of Problems
Through Appraisal             11/89        4         10     Economist
Identification/Preparation                               Sr. Training Spec.
Consultant
Sr. Country Officer
Pre-Appraisal                No data
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ available _ _ _ _ _
Appraisal through Board       10/90         4         8     Technical Educ. Analyst
Approval                                                    Sr. Training Spec.
Social Sector Consultant
Negotiations                   3/91
Board Approval through         5/91
Effectiveness
Supervision 1                 09/91        6         10     Technical Specialist             2                1        Project launch workshop
Management Training                                       carried out.
Disbursement Officer
Institut. Dev. Spec.
Bus. Tm. Ent. Dev.
Human Resource Spec.
Supervision 2                 09/92       NO       DATA   AVAILABLE                          2                1        Change of govemment
raised concemns about
commitment to the project.
Supervision 3                 11/92        3         5      Technical Specialist             2                1        Preparation of 1993
Financial Specialist                                      workplan to focus on
Human Resource Spec.                                      quality, supply and
Human______________________  Resource_ Spec._________ management issues.
Supervision 4                 11/93        2         5      Technical Specialist             2                1        Concern about quality,
Human Resource Spec.                                      preparation of materials,
curriculum development,
financing of self-
employment program.
Supervision 5               09-10/94       5         10     Human Resource Spec.             S              HS         Extension of closing date
(Mid-Termn Review)                                          Microenterprise Spec.                                      recommended to allow for



29
Number                                       <-Performance Rating 
Monthl       of      Days in   Specialized Staff Skills   Implementation   Development
Stage of Project Cycle     Year      Persons    Field         Represented             Status        Objective        Type of Problems
Training Specialist                                      redesign and the
Evaluation Specialist                                    development of a
Consultant                                               sustainability plan.
Supervision 6                05/96        4         10    Mission Leader                   S               S        Review of status of the
Impact Evaluation                                        reorganized project.
Tech./Voc. Ed. Spec.
Consultant
Supervision 7                01/97        5         5      Mission Leader                  S               S        Review of 1996 operations
Impact Evaluation                                        which were satisfactory.
Tech./Voc. Ed. Spec.
Financial Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 8               06-07/97      2         5      Mission Leader                  S               S        Focus on project's financial
Financial Mgmt. Spec.                                    management and readiness
for closing.
Supervision 9                01/98        3         5      Mission Leader                  S               S        Preparation for
Financial Analyst                                       implementation completion
Sr. Economist                                            evaluation; sustainability
plan preparation discussed.



30
APPENDICES
A.    Borrower Contribution: Presented in two reports: one by the Ministry of Education,
taking a more macro view of the project; and one by the YTEPP, presenting a more detailed
discussion.
B.    There are no contributions by cofinanciers.
C.    Miscellaneous Appendices: there are none attached. A detailed Statistical Annex and
report on the Tracer Studies (methodology and results) are available from Ms. Ada Rivera,
LCSHD.
D.    Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IN RELATMON To
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME
(YTEPP) IIMITED
SUTBMITTD BY:
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ON BEHALF OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
1998 May 28



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IN RELATION TO
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME
(YTEPP) LIMITED
SUBMITTED BYt
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ON BEHALF OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
1998 May 28



LIST OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Main Findings                                              (i)
Executive Summary                                          (ii)
Background                                                  1
Implementation Completion Report - The Ministry's Approach  2
Structure                                                   2
Curriculum                                                  3
Programming                                                 5
Resourcing                                                  6
Target Groups                                               7
Products                                                    7
Linkages                                                    8
Special Projects                                            8
Public Relations                                            8
Spin-offs                                                   9
Conclusions and Recommendations                             9



MAIN FINDINGS
The main findings are that YTEPP Ltd. has been, in the main, successful in relation to its
objectives. Its area of weakness has been management of curriculum delivery and the services
suppordve thereof The finctions performed by YTEPP Ltd. are still required and YTEPP Ltd. in
its institutional forn is best placed to perform them. YTEPP Ltd. should be continued to cany out
its existing remit and any other responsibilities as may be determined in the future, subject to:
(i)  review of the expertise and experience requirements of technical
management staff;
(I{) review of the technical management system with a view to improving
effectiveness and internal accountability so as to inpact directly on the
instructor-trainee interface;
ili) establishment in the overall system of management the necessary
feedback and other information channels to inform all levels of
management regarding need for interventions
i



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    BACKGROUND
The Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme (YTEPP) was a response in
1988 to the high levels of unemployment and unemployability which prevailed at the time among
youth under 25 years of age. The loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT) and the World Bank commenced in 1991 after YTEPP has
existed for approximately 3 years and had become a limited liability company. Under the loan
agreement the principal objectives were:
*  to improve the quality and relevance of education and training for employment and
self-employment provided by YTEPP through the development of cuniculum,
training of instructors and provision of equipment for training facilities and various
training programmes;
*  to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work experience in private
enterprises or public agencies which will facilitate their first entry into the labour
market;
*  to promote self-employment and small business training and the linking of a
network of credit institutions capable of providing loans for small businesses; and
-  to strengthen the management of the YTEP Programme to enhance the
effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to programme, monitor and
evaluate training and post-training support operations and their impact on youth
employment.
2.    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION  REPORT -THE MINISTRY'S
APPROACH
Except where the Ministry's Report indicates otherwise, the findings and conclusions of the
YTEPP ICR are, by and large, endorsed by the Ministry. Beyond this, the Ministry's approach has
been to identify the dimensions of YTEPP which have been exemplaty or distinctive, or which
YTEPP pioneered, popularized, entrenched or "perfected", and, in particular, those dimensions
that lend themselves to replicability and transferability to other institutions or to the wider TVET
system.
To this end, focus has been placed on structure, curriculum, programming, resourcing,
target group, products, linkages, special projects, public relations and spin-offs.
ii



2.1   Structure  -  The corporate structure allows for degrees of autonomy, proactivity and
flexibility which have facilitated many dimensions of system organisation and operation, while the
relationship with other Ministries ensures that corporate autonomy remains witliin the ambit of
Government policies. As regards the corporate nature of a public sector training institution,
YTEPP is pioneering and exemplaty. The model should be considered for other institutions,
2.2    Curriculum   -  The curriculum employs the holistic development approach embracing
vocational skills, career enhancement and micro-entreprencurship towards the goal of producing
graduates with a basket of employable skills in preparation for both wage and self-employment.
While other programmes have included non-vocational components, YTEPP  has
mainstreamed the attitudinal / personal development dimensions into compulsory, certifiable
components. The vital ingredients of the Career Enhancement Module are personal and attitudinal
development (work ethic, coDnfidence huiildincg, financial antid cnci2l ifp skil), n11 .mmracy and
literacy skills and counselling. In addition to the positive commentary regarding benefits of the
Career Enhancement Module, there is need for a systematic evaluation, employing psychometric
and otner rigorous metuods.
The Micro-enterprise Module is delivered through methodologies including role play and
experiential learning. It is required that each centre-based class and conmnunity-based project
generates a micro-business. There is much to be learned and transferred to the wider TVET
system.
Curriculum development for YTEPP provided an opportunity for experiencing the full
curriculum development process. This capacity and experience has already benefitted the wider
TVET system. Curriculum development for YTEPP has helped to advance the process of
structuring the TVET s,ystem iLnto appropriate levels.
2.3   Programming   -  On account of the scale and distribution of programming, there is
good potential for managerial efficiency based on decentralisation and the divestment of relative
autonomy to regional offices and individual centres. The system has performed well in many
respects, but the full potential has not always been realised. There is evidence to suggest some
extent of shortfall in achieving effective curriculum delivery, which in the final analysis, is the
ultimate determinant and indicator of programiing success. The Reports of Extemal Validators
give mixed reviews in the area of curriculum delivery. The comment that some trainees have not
demonstrated adequate practical skills was made in reference to some centres and courses. More
stringent centre-based management (technical and administrative) may be required to ensure that
tutors follow the prescribed curricula and provide adequate opportunity for trainees to repeat and
reinforce competencies. The External Validators of the National Examinations Council have
revealed the need for strengthening the technical supenrision at all levels as well as the day-to-day
admniirstration at the level of centre managers.
YTEPP's valuable experience in the widespread use of continuous assessment as the
primary basis for certification is transferable.
i.i



2.4   Resourcing  -  YTEPP has distinguished itself for maintaining a large stock of
equipment and supplies for its training centres. In the main, the arrangement has served well, but
there have been areas of weakness, suggesting the need for more efficient management. The
policy of maintaining a stock of resources for training centres is worthy of emulation.
2.5   Target Group  -  YTEPP's policy of catering to those with no identifiable or certified
educational attainment helps to salvage persons with the least hope or opportunitv. This is a very
valuablc social contribution. So too is the provision of second chanQcs to thosc who did not
benefit maximally from formal school. In these respects. YTEPP has blazed a trail.
2.6   Products  - A number of useful cuniculum materials have come out of the Programme.
Both the experience of producing them and the materials themselves can redound to the benefit of
the wider TVET system. These products, being the property of the Government, should be
available to Ministries and public sector institutions.
2.7    Linkages  -   A network of linkages and valuable wynergies have been establiMhed
between YTEPP and the public school system. Tnese have been mutually beneficial. Tney
provide sound bases and represent useful models for continued partnership.
2.8   Special Projects  - YTEPP conducted a project in school furniture repair in some 62
schools, which afforded work experience to YTEPP graduates and furniished useful products for
the Ministry of Education.  YTEPP served as the implementing agency for the Ministry's
Advanced Welding and Fabrication Programme.
2.9   Public Relations -  YTEPP has successfully used the public relations medium  to
promote its image, profile and credibility as a training institution and this has served the Institution
well. It has attracted support and requests for services and has made YTEPP a household "word".
This strategy is worthy of emulation system wide.
2.10  Spin-offs   -  In addition to other identified benefits, YTEPP has helped to spawn the
nucleus of a fledgling educational services industry through its mobilisation of curriculum and
other expertise to address its needs. On the other hand, YTEPP has itself developed the capacity
to provide and procure services, -dtilisinga combhintion of in-hoiie and external experfise.
YTEPP has also contributed to entrenching the culture of continuing, lifelong education and
training.
3.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
In addition to utilising approaches and practices inherited from existing programmes,
YTEPP has pioneered, popularized, mainstreamed, entrenched and "perfected" a number of
approaches and practices that have potential for useful application elsewhere, including system
wide aprnlication. VTPP has been quiite cucrPesf61 in estnblishing Crct#.m for dirchanbrgno its
responsibilities. In many areas, performance, too, has been commendable. But the fUll potential
of these systems has not always been realised. Performance shortfalls in the critical areas of
iv



curriculum delivery, continuous assessment and centre-based management have resulted in some
graduates not achieving Programme objectives and not demonstrating the vocational competencies
required for participating in a work situation. There is a need to strengthen centre-based
management (technical and administrative), including accountability of centre to regional office
and regional office to head office. It must be ensured that technical managers bring to bear the
expertise, experience and practicc required to lead and manage the technical functions at the
various levels tight down to the instructor-trainee interface, which, is the final analysis, is where
effectiveness matters most.
Barring the identified areas of shortfall, YTEPP has been, in many respects, a success
story. The functions performed by YTEPP need to continue to be performed, the services need to
be provided and the clients need to be served. Having considered altemative strategies for carrying
out these responsibilities and mindful of the institutional structure, system organisation and
institutional memory as well as the reservoir of acquired expertise and experience exisfing at
YTEPP, the most plausible option is to retain YTEPP as an institution, subject to: (I) review of the
expertise and experience requirements of technical management staff; (ii) review of the technical
management system with a view to improving effectiveness and intemal accountability so as to
impact directly on the instructor-trainee interface; and (iii) establishment in the overall system of
management the necessary feedback and other information channels to inforrn aU levels of
management regarding need for interventions.
It is recommnended, subject to the considerations and proposals contained in this Report,
that YTEPP Ltd. be continued as a company to canry out its existing remit and any other
responsibilities as may be determined in the future. To this end, continued financial support by the
Govemment will be necessary in the short-to-medium term. During this petiod YTEPP will be
expected to assume increasing responsibility for its own funding and become less dependent on
Government funding. This goal should be pursued in a manner compatible with YlEPP's
responsibility in relation to target group, access, equity and quality.
It is further recommended that YTEPP be located under the technical purview of the
National Training Agency and be given clear responsibilities within that system of governance.
v



1.    BACKGROUND
YTEPP originated in 1988 as a response to high unemployment among youth under 25
years of age, a substantial percentage of whom were virtualy unemployable on account of
inadequate preparation for the workplace. There was clearly a need to provide, on a mass scale
and in as short a time frame as practicable, basic training for wage employment and self-
employment. YTEPP was part of the response.
The loan agreement between the GORTT and the World Bank in respect of YTEPP
Limited commenced in 1991. By then YTEPP had existed for approximately three years and had
been transformed from a project within the Ministry of Youth and Sports into a limited liability
company. Under the loan agreement the principal objectives were:
•  to improve the quality and relevance of education and training for employment
and self-emn.ployment provided by YTEPP through the development of
curiculum, training of instructors and provision of equipment for training
facilities and various training programmes;
*  to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work experience in
private enterprises or public agencies which will facilitate their first ently into the
labour market;
.  to promote self-employment and small business training and the linking of a
network of credit institutions capable of providing loans for small businesses; and
*  to strengthen the management of the YTEP Programme to enhance the
effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to programme, monitor and
evaluate training and post-training support operations and their impact on youth
employment.
In addition, certain challenges were identified, as follows:
* improved career guidance and personal counselling for youth
*  increased training in attitudinal development and basic literacy and numeracy
*  improved training and support for self-employment
* improved quality and relevance of job skill training
*  overcoming  constraints  on  implementation  of  work  experience  and
apprenticeships
* better labour market information to deternine short-term training needs
* improved management of YTEPP.
1



2.    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION  REPORT - TBE MINISTRY'S
APPROACH
The Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by YTEPP deals with YTEPP's
performance in relation to a number of objectives and challenges and conforms to the format
proposed at Attachment 1 of the Aide Memoire based on the Mission of 1998 January. Except
where the Ministry's Report indicates otherwise, the findings and conclusions of the tTEPP ICR
Report are, by and large, endorsed by the Ministry.
The Ministry's Report has not sought to follow orthodox approaches to evaluation.
Rather, it has identified the dimensions of YTEPP which have been exemplary or distinctive,
whether by virtue of YTEPP's having pioneered, popularized, entrenched or "perfected" such
dimnensions, or by virtue of the scale of the activities, their replicability or multiplier effect, and
where, furthermore, such dimensions have been signally effective. Focus has been placed, in
particular, on those dimensions that lend themselves to transferability to other institutions or to
the wider TVET system or its sub-systems. In addition, areas of weaknesses have been identified
and suggestions made for improvement.
To this end, focus has fallen on:
>  structure       D  curiculum        >  programming
>  resourcing      >  target group     >  products
>  linkages        D  special projects    D  public relations
>  spin-offs
3.    STRUCTURE
The limited liability company status of YTEPP Ltd., which is unusuaL if not
unprecedented, for a training institution in the public sector, allows for levels, degrees and scope
of autonomy, proactivity and flexibility which are not normally available to other training entities
in the public sector. This includes the autonomy to establish internal policies in relation to
decision making and execution, employment practice, tendeting procedure, procurement practice,
financial management and control, administrative and operational practice, public relations and
promotion, linkages with external agencies. YTEPP's relationship with the Investment Division of
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and Development and thc Ministry of Education
ensures that corporate autonomy operates within the ambit of Government policies.
The areas of autonomy, proactivity and flexibility are highly facilitative of efficiency and
effectiveness in relation to client / customer satisfaction, meeting Govefnment (shareholder)
expectations, securing service contracts and other forms of business from external agencies.
2



These characteristics have enabled YTEPP to, among other things: (a) streamline its project
teams; (b) decentralize field operations; (c) introduce full-time training; (d) adopt competency-
based, modular training; (e) form partnerships with business and industty; (f) customize training.
The autonomy, proactivity and flexibility represent a welcome relief from the usual
bureaucracy encountered in the Public Service and Statutory Services. As regards the corporate
nature of a public sector training institution, NTEPP i5 pioneering and exemplary. The model
should be considered for other institutions.
Features of the corporate structure which have good potential for transference purposes
include: the interests, expertise, experiences and connections I networking which are brought by a
Board of diverse representatives; the role and functions of the Board; the linkage and relationship
between the Board and the CEO-Secretariat; the opportunity for all levels of staff to articulate
views relating to policy or operations of the organisation, allowing for "buy-in" and acceptance;
the culture of the organisation as to its management, decentralised operations, staffing in relation
to functions, operational efficiency and financial efficiency.
Y'TEPP's experience has pointed to the need to strike an acceptable relationship between
administrative cost and direct training costs, consistent with programme objectives. Such ratio
may serve as a useful guide to human resource policy and an index of operational efficiency.
4.    CURRICULUM
4.1   The YTEP Programme design is holistic in nature and embraces the following dimensions:
(a) vocational skills; (b) career enhancement and (c) micro-entrepreneurship. The intention of the
YTEPP training programme is to produce graduates who are capable of performing in the work
situation in keeping with occupational specifications and with nminimum supervision. A m4jor goal
of the Programme is to provide the graduates with a basket of employable skills in preparation for
both wage and self-empioyment.
The core components of the YTEPP curriculum are vocational skills and career
enhancement, complemented by micro-entrepreneurship, in order to address youth unemployment
and youth unemployability. The integrated training curriculum provides a range of life and job
skills, including preparation for the world of work counselling and career guidance, attitudinal
and personal developmcnt (confidcnce and sclf-cstccm), small busincss skills and, whcrc
necessary (as determined by diagnostic test) remedial literacy and numeracy.
While other programmes have included non-vocational components as minor and / or
optional offerings or appendages, YTEPP, through its Career Enhancement Module, has
mainstreamed the attitudinal i personal development dimension into compulsory, certifiable
components. Micro-entrepreneurship training, too, though pre-existing YTEPP, has experenced
under YTEPP a filip in visibility, profile and popularity and YTEPP can justifiably take some
3



credit for micro-entrepreneurship training finding permanent root and taking hold in public sector
progranunmg.
4.2   The vital ingredients of the Career Enhancement Module are personal and attitudinal
development (work ethic, confidence building, financial and social life skills), numeracy and
litcracy skills and counselling. While the impact of the carcer enhancement dimension is
considered by some to be more significant than the vocational skill training, the mode of delivery
of the former can benefit from greater utilisation of methodologies advantageous to affective
behaviours.
In addition to the general observations and feedback indicating the benefits of the Career
Enhancement Module, there is need for a systematic evaluationi employing psychometric and
other rigorous methods appropriate to the affective domain.
4.3   Core elements of the Mvicro-entrepreneurship Module include:  building self-esteem,
developing a business idea, identifIying opportunities and constraints, writing a business plan,
marketing, production, human resources, financing a business, operational aspects of running a
micro-business.
Various delivery methodologies are employed, including role play and experiential
learning. Support is provided by way of accessing credit and technical advice, promotion of
nmicro-business and marketing of products.
The current requirement that a micro-business be generated from each centre-based class
and community-based project will go a long way towards concretizing the impact and ensuring the
appropriate outcomes of the Module.
4.4   The exercise, led by Ministry of Education personnel, of developing curricula for YTEPP
courses has provided an opportunity to experience the full curriculum process through its vatious
stages. Hiitherto, the Ministry's efforts at curriculum development, by and large, ended with the
production of the syllabus and some teaching-learning materiaLs, The YTEPP exercise involved
all facct of compctency-based curiculum dvelopment including the preparation of peirfnimtanee
tests, the development of assessment strategies and related documentation, the refinement of the
Certificate of Acquired Competencies derived from the Ministry's earlier version. This capacity
and experience in talkng the curriculum development exercise through the full gamut are verv
valuable resources, which are already being applied to some areas of the wider TVET system and
will be put to much further use.
YTEPP has also served as a catalyst for the structuring of the TVET system into a
hierarchy of levels and arival at a national TVET model.
4



5.  PROGRAMMING
5.1    The scale and geographic distribution of YTEPP makes it the most widespread delivery
institution in the public sector.  It is the largest institution operating at the introductory
occupational level. The consequent distribution of authority and operational management and the
degrees of relative autonomy divested to regional offices and individual centres have the potential
to enhance managerial efficiency and the effectiveness of training. The scale of operations has the
potential for economic efficiency.
5.2   In some respects, for instance, access to training and optimal use of resources, the
decentralised operations have enhanced perfornance. However, there is evidence to suggest
some extent of shortfall in achieving effective curriculum delivery. It is appreciated that all of the
planning, organisational and management dimensions, however laudable, are, in the final analysis,
inputs designed to enable the achievement of efficient and effective delivery of curnmcula. It is the
effectiveness of the instructor-trainee interface, facilitated by utiLisaion of the various resources,
which is the ultimate detemninant and indicator of programming success. The Reports of the
Extemal Validators (National Examinations Council) give mixed review6 on that score.
It has been indicated that in respect of some courses and some centres, the management of
curriculum delivery can benefit from improvement. The comment that some trainees have not
demonstrated adequate practical skills was made in reference to some centres. In some cases,
vahidation could Uonly be patl'Ully done on. account o irtadequatte uiiui- uifliiU-ftie wbu icA, iil
some cases, was said to be on account of inadequacy of equipment and / or consumables and in
others, on account of instructor incapability or lack of diligence.  More stringent centre-bascd
management (technical and administrative) may be required to ensure that tutors toilow the
prescribed curricula and that they do not use the Tutor Course Guides selectively, which makes
assessment difficult. The opportunity to repeat, improve and reinforce skills, which is a valuable
facility of competency-based, modular systems, may need to be made more readily available to
trainees. The incidence of unapproved use of home assignments as a basis for assessment, even if
rare, may be enough to endanger the credibility of the entire system and should be arrested.
There seems to be a good case for improvement in, and wider practice of, direct teclmical
supervision of instructors, whichi may require enforcement of technical supervision at the higlher
levels of the system. In this regard, the 'Guidelines' prepared in  1998 January for technical
supervisors is a positive stcp. Furthermorc, the intervontion of the External Validators of the
National Examinations Council (NEC) has had many beneficial effects. It has ensured not only
that continuous assessment is more professionally done to meet the standards of the NEC, but it
has also impacted significantly on programme delivery. Instructors have assumed a more alert and
active mode. They have benefitted from training by External Validators on the use of the Tutor
Course Guides, key steps in criticai processes, instructionai and assessment techniques, standard.s
to be attained, documentation of assessment outcomes.  Extemrnal Validators have. alQo heilnped tn
mitigate "upward pressures" on assessment scores.
5



5.3   There is evidence, too, to suggest weaknesses in the day-to-day administration at the level
of centre managers, which perhaps point to weaknesses at the level of regional and central
management. This has, for instance, allegedly resulted in occurrences, on the one hand, of over-
resourcing of centres and the consequent waste and "losses", and on the other hand, inder-
resourcing of centres resulting in constraints to course delivery. Another alleged consequenice of
weaknesses in centre management is submission from time to time of marks for "glost" trainees.
5.4   YTEPP has been very successful at the enterprise of attracting trainees to its programmes.
On the output side, along with the very glowing remarks made in some quarters about YTEPP
graduates and their success in gaining salaried employment or self-employment, there has been in
other quarters a somewhat less complimentary perception about their skill preparation for the
world of work. Some of this latter perception may be factual while some may derive from the
auccess of YTEPP's self-promotion and the resultant exaggerated expectations of YTEPP
graduates on the part of employers and the public. It has been said by some commentators that
the real success of YTEPP's programming has been in the area of attitudinal development,
confidence building, motivation and the engendering of hope as a result of its Career
Enhancement Module.
5.5   A valuable practice that YTEPP has helped to mainstream is the use of continuous
asscssmcnt as the primary basis for ccrtification. YTEPP has takcn continuous assessment to
proportions of mass application singular among public sector institutions. This has been another
pioneering achievement anld has helped to populaize continuous assessment, concretize its merits
and entrench its practice.
5.6   The Evening School mode of programme delivery of the introductory occupational level
facilitates both employed and unemployed persons. It also allows for use of school plant,
facilities, equipment and personnel, resulting in substantial cost saving and ready access to
resource persons of the various categories. The arrangement results in higher utilisation rates of
plant, facilities and equipment.  The employment of staff resident at centres caters for
accountability and fosters good relations and co-operation between YTEPP and its centres.
6.    RESOURCING
YTEPP has distinguished itself amnong public sector institutions by establishing and
maintaining a large stock of equipment and supplies for its training centres through a system of
warehousing and inventory control. In the main, this has served as a good base for supplying
centres, but has not always translated into efficient resourcing. There has been room for
improvement in the management systems to facilitate timely response to the needs of centres for
equipment and consumables as well as to prevent over supply. But the policy of maintaining a
stock of resources for training centres recommends itself.
6



7.  TARGET GROUPS
While most public sector training institutions have specified minimum entry requirements
in terms of educational attainment, YTEPP has catered for a clientele which includes persons with
no identifiable or cerfified attainment, poor literacy and numeracy levels, low self-esteem and liftle
hope. Such persons have been afforded remediation and a ray of hope. They aLmost invariably
cmcrgc with at lcast rudimcntary employablc skills. By not insisting on entry qualification
thresholds, thus reaching down to those who are otherwise excluded from training opportunities
in public sector institutions, YTEPP has salvaged many a dispirited soul and redeemed many a
potential social parasite and / or deviant. YTEPP has also served as a second chance institution
for many who have not benefitted maximally from their opportunity in formal school. Many
lives have been redirected and enabled to flower.
On both counts, that is, by catering to the needs of the low achiever / non-achiever and by
providing second chances, YTEPP has blazed a trail that is deserving of emulation. The expertise
developed by YTEPP for dealing with groups with diverse entry belaviours, dispositions and
interests has great potential and should be documented and disseminated, as the client groups of
the future will be increasingly heterogeneous.
8.    PRODUCTS
8.1    A number of useful products with national currency have resulted from the Programme.
The Level I curficulum comprising syllabuses, teaching-leaming materials and assessment strategy
and instruments has been developed and has the potential for national use. It is already being
used in a limited way. Experience has been gained in its application and such experience is
transferable. The Certificate of Acquired Competencies (CAC), adopted from the National
Training Board, Mnistry of Education, has benefitted from considerable simplification and
refinement through the joint efforts of YTEPP and the Ministry of Education.
This revised CAC is the instrument of ceitification being issued by the NEC to graduates
of YTEPP starting from Cycle Eleven and is to be the instrument for certifying the Level 1
Programme nationally.
8.2   Some Level II syllabuses have been developed as the first elements of the Level II
cunicula. These too are intended for wider national use. Also, the literacy and numeracy
diagnostic pre-test and post-test developed and administered by YTEPP can find widespread use
elsewhere, subject to validation and standardisation.
8.3   YTEPP's products are, of course, the property of the Government and should be available
to Ministries and public sector institutions for use in their programmes.  If, for instance, the
syllabuses used by YTEPP at the Level I are considered to be the best available at this time, they
7



should be adopted as the national syllabuses and all other public sector programmes be not just
allowed, but be required, to use them. To do otherwise will be to forego the opportunity to use
tie best available, which rannot be prudent. Copyright affangements should not deprive public
institutions of the benefit of materials produced at public expense. Access to the products of the
Programme should be formalised and not be left to the discretion of YTEPP policy or personnel.
9.    LINKAGES
A network of linkages and valuable synergies have been established between YTEPP and
the public school system - the result of the sharing of plant, facilities, equipment and staff.
Schools have benefitted from YTEPP's deployment of equipment at schools and, even when
YTEPP ceases to operate at a particular school, the "parting" has been cordial and sensitive to
their mutual interests, YTEPP often agreeing to defer its removal of equipment to facilitate the
school's programmes.
These linkages provide sound bases for continued co-operation and optimal use of
resources and personnel. They represent useful models for co-operation among institutions.
10.   SPECIAL PROJECTS
YTEPP conducted a project in school furniture repair in some 62 schools for the Ninistry
of Education, in the process providing work experience for YTEPP graduates and strengthening
the relationsliip with the Ministry.
The Advanced Welding and Fabrication Programme initiated in 1995 by the Ministry of
Education, with YTEPP as the implementing agency, is another project that has not only had
utility value by way of producing trained practitioners, but has also helped to cement the
partnership betwccn the mainstrcam Ministry of Education and YTEPP.
11.   PUBLIC RELATIONS
YTEPP has liberally employed the medium of public relations to promote its image,
profile and credibility as a training institution and a player in the fields of unemployment
alleviation and continuing education.  YTEPP has engaged in career guidance actihities,
community outreach, exhibitions and displays, development and dissemination of literature. This
has served YTEPP well in that it has popularized the Institution, gained support from various
interests and attracted contracts for services. To the extent that YTEPP has approximated a
8



household "word", its public relations has been successful. To some extent the success of its self-
promotion may have worked against YTEPP in that it may have raised inflated expectations of
YTEPP graduates. As a consequence, their true capability may be under-rated on account of
being evaluated against unrealistic standards. That notwiths,tanding, YTEPP's public relftions
practice has considerable emulation value.
12.   SPIN-OFFS
In addition to the other identified direct benefits to the wider TVET system and the
national community, a potentially significant spin-off of YTEPP's operations has resulted from the
engagement, from time to time, of the services of educational specialists such as curriculum
officers and evaluation personnel. Perhaps unwittingl, the nucleus of an educational services
industry has been created and its viability tested, if not demonstrated. Thlis can be interpreted as
the beginnings of what can be expected to be a tluiving industry of the future, given the
gravitation towards contracting expertise or out-sourcing specialists services.
On the other hand, YTEPP has itself developed the capacity to provide contracted services
to other agencies. This includes the capacity to source services from other providers and deliver
such services to clients, utilising a combination of in-house and external expertise. Strengths exist
in areas such as programme planning and implementation, curniculum development, research and
evaluation, inventory management and control, documentation, printing and publication, as well
as its accustomed areas of practice such as career enhancement, training of trainers and
customized training.
Another significant spin-off is the contribution to the entrenchment of the culture of
continuing education and lifelong learning and the provision / accessing of opportunities for
learning beyond "school". This is undoubtedly the way of the future, and well before it had
found its place into the local lexicon of "buzz words", YTEPP was promoting leaming in the non-
formal, out-of-school, adult setting - yet another transferable to the wider system.
13.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Over the period of the World Bank Loan, the YTEIPP "experiment" has employed
approaches and practices that were inherited fiom existing programmes and systems and has
adapted, refined and enhanced some of them. In addition, YTEPP has pioneered, popularized,
mainstreamed, entrenched and "perfected" a number of approaches and practices that have the
potential for useful application system wide. These include: the corporate structure of the
orgatit:tor; curriculunm development and delivery and programming generally; resourcing;
selection and treatment of target groups; creation of products and achievement of outcomes;
establishment and utilisation of linkages; special projects; public relations.
9



On these various fronts, YTEPP has been quite successful in establishing systems for the
discharge of its responsibilities. In some areas the full potential of these systems has not been
realised. In the critical areas of curriculum delivery, continuous assessment and centre-based
management there have been shortfalls, which have resulted in some YTEPP graduates not
achieving the Programme objectives and not demonstrating the vocational competencies required
for participating in a work situation. These areas of deficit can benefit from more effective
technical and administrative support and management, including more rigorous accountability of
centre to regional office and regional office to head office.
The absence from XTEPP's Implementation Completion Report of commentary on these
areas of deficiency may suggest that there is a need to build into the overall system of
management the channels and mechanisms to facilitate feedback and other information flow that
can inform senior management of strengths and weaknesses on a system wide basis.
If, in addition to the acknowledged merits of the system as designed, the performance of
the system is also to be exemplary, it must be ensured that the incumbents in technical
management positions bring to bear the expertise, experience and practice required to lead and
manage the technical functions at the various levels right down to instructor-trainee interface.
This interface, in the final analysis, is where effectiveness matters most. In the context of training
effective delivery of the curriculum to the trainees is the ultimate objective of the various inputs
and efforts throughout the system. Deficits at that level are therefore significant and deserving of
commensurate intervention. It is believeed that if the appropriate interventions are made, VTEPP
can significantly improve the cost effectiveness of its programming, for instance, delivering better
quality training without increased cost.
Shortfalls in gaining employment on the part of graduates are attributable partly to
deficiencies in the vocational skills of some graduates and partly to inadequate support from
agencies outside of YTEPP.
Barring the areas identified as requiring attention, significant though they undoubtedly are,
YTEPP has been, in many respects, a success story. A tracer study conducted in 1991 by
YTEPP indicated that for a particular group of candidates, the employment rate increased by
32.5% after participating in a YTEPP training cycle, while for a control group of simnilar
candidates who were not YTEPP participants, the employment rate increased by 14.3%.  A
similar study in 1993 indicated 24.3% increase for the YTEPP group and a 12.2% increase for
the control group. A 1996 study indicated a 29.7% increase for the YTEPP group and a 27.6%
increase for the control group.
YTEPP has given to many hope and employability and, by extension, employment,
eamnings, survivability, mobility, a career path, a learning culture, motivation to further education
and training and higher qualifications. It has empowered many who would otherwise have been
social dependents, if not mcnaces.
10



There is no doubt that the functions performed by YTEPP need to continue to be
performed, the services provided need to continue to be rendered and the clients served must
continue to be catered for.
How best to do all this? Is there merit in transferring these responsibilities to another
existing institution or distributing them among several other institutions? There is at present no
existing institution structured and resourced to carry these responsibilities, and farming them out
will severely impair the cohesiveness and holistic nature of programming. What plausibility can
there be in establishing a new organisation to carry out the same responsibilities at the expense of
existing institutional structure, system organisation and institutional memory as well as a reservoir
of acquired expertise and experience?
It would seem that if YTEPP did not exist, something akin to it would have needed to be
invented. That YTEPP exists and has, as a whole, performed creditably recommend that a good
strategy for continuing to treat with the responsibilities currently canied by YTEPP is to retain
YTEPP as an institution, subject to:
(i)  review of the expertise and experience requirements of technical
management staff;
(ii) review of the technical management system with a view to improving
effectiveness and internal accountability so as to impact directly on
the instruc.tor-trainee interface;
(iii) estbhulQmen1t in the1 ovArall system, of matnagement th.e neessa
feedback and other information channels to inform  all levels of
management regarding need for interventions.
It is recognised that YTEPP has a key responsibility as the major provider of training at
the introductoty occupational level and that it is this level of training which is most widely
demanded, in terms of volume and geographic distribution. i light of these considerations, it
may appropriate to review the adequacy of YTEPP's "reach" in relation to the issue of access.
It is recommended, subject to the considerations and proposals contained in this Report,
that YTEPP Ltd. be continued as a company to carry out its existing remit and any other
responsibilities as may be determined in the future. To this end, continued financial support by
the Government will be necessary in the short-to-medium term. During this period YTEPP will
be expected to assume increasing responsibility for its own funding and become less dependent on
Government funding. This goal should be pursued in a manner compatible with YTEPP's
responsibility in relation to target group, access, equity and quality.
It is further recommended that YTEPP be located under the technical purview of the
National Training Agency and be given clear responsibilities within that system of govemance.
11



YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME
(YTEPP) LIMITED
Part One
Prepared by YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP
PROGRAMME (YTEPP) LIMITED
DATE: 31/07198



REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Education and Training for Youth Employment Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. EXECUTIVE SU MMARY .......................................................................                                          2
2. INTRODUCTION .......................................................................                                                7
3. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................                                 7
4. RESTRUCTURING  OF YTEPP .......................................................................                                    10
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW/ YTEPP's: MISSION STATEMENT .................                                                        10
6. SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS .................................                                                    15
7. INITIATIVES FOR PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................                                       16
8. BANK  PERFORMANCE .......................................................................                                          17
9. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .......................................................................                                    18
10. PROJECT COST AND  FINANCING .....................................................................                                18
11. KEY  FINDINGS AND  LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................................                                    19
12. FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................................                         ...........................               20
13. GENERAL REFERENCES
PART II: ANNEX (INCLUDING STATISTICAL TABLES)



1.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1  In 1988, the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT)
established the Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme
(YTEPP) as a short-term social intervention to address the increasingly high
unemployment rate of youths under the age of twenty-five (25). YTEPP's initial
two years of project implementation was funded by the GORTT and was viewed
as an important youth project under the auspices of the Ministry of Youth and
Sports.
1.2  In August 1991, the GORTT entered a loan agreement with the World Bank to
fund the Education and Training for Youth Employment Project for a period of
five (5) years (1990-1995). Total funding obtained from the World Bank was US
$ 20.7 million and the GORTT provided co-financing in the tune of US$ 11.2
million.
1. 3   Project Objectives
In the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, 1991) the four (4) principal
project objectives stated are as follows:
* to improve the quality and relevance of eiducation and training for
employment and self-employment provided by YTEPP through the
development of curriculum, training of instructors and provision of equipment
for training facilities and various training programmes.
* to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work experience in
private enterprises or public agencies which will facilitate their first entry into
the labour market.
* to promote self-employment and small business training and the linking of a
network of credit institutions capable of providing loans for small businesses;
and
* to strengthen the management of the YTEP Programme to enhance the
effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to programme, monitor,
evaluate training and pst-training support operations and their impact on
employment.
1.4  Key Lessons and Findings
The YTEP Programme is a unique training prograrnme designed to meet the
needs of a specialised target population of unskilled, unemployed youth, under the
age of twenty-five (25) years. Designed to address the absence of vocational
skills, low self-esteem and poor communication skills of most of its applicants,
the Programme provides vocational skills training, counselling support and
training in life skills.  It attempts to help young people address their
2



marginalisation by developing their technical, behavioural and entrepreneurial
skills. In essence, the programme encourages them to take charge of their lives by
developing the relevant skills to effect the transformation.
The Company has conducted an analysis of the impact of its training on the
employment status of its graduates through the conduct of a number of tracer
studies carried out by an independent research analyst. Data from four tracer
studies conducted over a period of four (4) years have revealed significant
findings that indicate YTEPP's success in achieving its chief objective.
Its mandate was to develop a training programme to enhance the marketability of
unemployed out of school youth. Tracer studies conducted on control groups and
graduates of different YTEPP cycles show that the YTEPP Programme has had its
most significant impact on that group of young persons whose academic
background and job experiences make them unattractive to employers. One
notable study' conducted in 1994 by officials of the Bank and YTEPP concluded
that applicants to YTEPP were not employable. The Study suggested that those
underlying factors that could have contributed to individuals participating in
YTEPP also restricted the earning potential of the individuals.
Key factors such as the socio-economic background and low academic
achievement of these individuals could have put them at a disadvantage when
seeking jobs, had they not attended YTEPP. Upon graduating from YTEPP, their
subsequent earnings were directly linked to their participation in YTEPP. In
comparison with control groups, their comparative, and at times superior,
performances in the labour market a major improvement on their pre-YTEPP
status.
The authors felt strongly that any evaluation of the effect of YTEPP on the
earnings of its graduates must bear in mind the negative effects of these initial
attributes. A lack of appreciation of the constraints posed by these factors might
lead to a downward bias of the effect of YTEPP on earnings.
The Effect of Trinidad and Tobago's Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme on
Graduates' Earnings 1994, by Arjun Singh Bedi, John Newman, Laura Rawlings (World Bank), Leslie
Bowrin (YTEPP)
3



In hindsight, some of the major findings of the YTEPP programme were:
* The programme has had a significant impact on the two most vulnerable
social groups - women and youth. Most of the programme's intake
comprised young females (55% - 60%) whose rate of unemployment
(32%), after graduation, was more favourable than the rate (39%) of the
national female labour force (see table 2).
* The focus on vocational skill development along with motivational and
communication training has proven attractive to incarcerated young men
and women. The YTEPP Programme has already begun to target this
group and has introduced training programmes at the Youth
Correctional Institutions in collaboration with the Ministry of National
Security. This initiative has been successful although there is need to
expand this training facility even further.
* The Tracer Studies have clearly demonstrated YTEPP's positive impact
on its target groups. Despite their limited academic background and
work experience, the YTEPP graduates have experienced significant
increases in their employment rates when their absorption rates before
and after YTEPP are compared (13.6% in 1989 to 46.1% in 1991; 17.4%
in 1991 to 41.7% in 1993). Comparatively, they have also performed
better than members of a control group who had a stronger academic
background.
* Comparatively the control groups' rates moved from 27. 9% in 1989 to
42. 3% in 1991; 14.7% in 1991 to 35.3% in 1993.
* Over 40% of the graduates surveyed opted to pursue their studies rather
than seek immediate employment.
* Most employed graduates (74%) stated that the training received in the
Career Enhancement component was more critical to their gaining
employment than that received in the Vocational Skills component. This
seemed to re-emphasise the higher priority attributed to communication
and life skills for new entrants to the labour market.
* The competencies developed in formulating and managing training and
support programmes - curriculum development, supervision, centre
management, monitoring and evaluation, networking with industry and
other social partners - can be commercially marketed to state, regional,
and other private organisations.
* The organisation's greatest asset is its managerial capacity. YTEPP can
diversify its training product to cater to market needs without major
increases to its recurrent expenditure. Having serviced unemployed
youth throughout its existence, the programme can also address a
4



diversified number of sub-groups comprising youths "at risk"
(incarcerated young males and females, single teenage mothers,
abandoned or street children, unemployable youths with skills or
qualified youths unable to obtain jobs. In addition, the Company can
also train unemployed adults, employees needing numeracy, literacy
and communication training, employees needing skill upgrade training,
and apprentices. The Company has also delivered customised training
programmes to state agencies, non-governmental organisations and
other similar groups.
* The use of teachers from the secondary school system to deliver
technical and vocational training in certain industrial occupations
proved ineffective when these teachers did not have a strong industrial
background. Use of skilled personnel with industrial experience and
exposure to "training of trainers" workshops proved to be more
effective for the target group. Use of primary school teachers, however,
to deliver modules in communication skills, numeracy and literacy has
proven to be quite successful, especially the use of special educators.
* The change from a nine-month part-time programme of 240 contact
hours to a six-month part-time training programme of the same
duration was successful in reducing overall attrition.
* Shifting to modular based training permitted easier movement from
one level of training to the other and exposed participants to a higher
level of training than they would have been exposed to had they not
attended YTEPP. Two major factors contributed to this: a) the lack of
prerequisites for enrolment in basic classes and b) YTEPP's focus on
practical skills training. Because of their poor academic backgrounds,
many of the trainees who benefited from the higher levels of training
would not have qualified for acceptance in other training programmes.
* Partnerships have been critical to the success of the programme.
Collaboration with the Ministry of Education facilitated access to plant,
equipment, technical expertise and human resources. Partnerships
with the state sector and private enterprise have generated interest free
accommodation for training and administrative purposes, hands-on
training for participants and instructors, exposure to international
standards and procedures, technical expertise and funding.
5



* The absence of regular labour market information was a major
constraint to more effective course selection.
* The lack of any consistent financial and technical assistance for
graduates of the business training programmes impacted on the success
of the Entrepreneurial Development and Support Services sub-project.
Most graduates in business relied on self-financing.
6



2.   INTRODUCTION
2.1  In 1988, the increasingly high unemployment rate of youths under 25 years of age
prompted the establishment of the Youth Training and Employment Partnership
Programme (YTEPP). During this period of economic and structural adjustment,
there were significant barriers that affected the participation of youth in the
Labour Force, particularly those students who did not successfully complete their
secondary school education and school dropouts. While approximately twenty
thousand (20,000) young persons exit the Secondary School System annually, in
1988 almost 100,000 young persons were either unemployed or out of the labour
force. With initial government funding for two (2) years, the YTEPP was set up as
a short-term social intervention to address the problem of youth unemployment
and unemployability among individuals 15-25 years of age.
2.2  In August 1991, the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
(GORTT) entered into a Loan Agreement with the World Bank in the amount of
US $20.7 million to be utilised over a five (5) year period (1990-1995) to develop
a more structured YTEPP. Co-financing for the Project was provided by the
GORTT in the amount of US$ 11.2 million, bringing the total funding available
for implementation of the Education and Training for Youth Employment Project
to US$ 31.9 million.
2.3   The Implementation Agency for the Project was the Youth Training and
Employment Partnership Programme Company Limited (YTEPP), established in
October 1990 as a Limited Liability Company to function outside the normal
administrative and bureaucratic confines and constraints of a government
ministry.
2.4   The YTEPP Company with its own Board of Directors was mandated to develop
a Programme to enhance youth employability and to assist in facilitating the entry
of Youths into the Labour Market either through wage or self-employment.
2.5   The project duration of the YTEPP was initially for a period of five (5) years
(1990-1995) and subsequently in late 1995, the GORTT successfully negotiated
with the World Bank for a two-year (2) extension of project implementation
(1996-1998). This extension did not involve any additional loan funding but
rather utilisation of the remaining unspent balance in the approved project-
operating budget.
7



3.    WORLD BANK MID-TERM EVALUATION REVIEW
3.1   At its mid-term Evaluation Review, conducted in November 1994, the World
Bank Mission assessed programme progress against the established criteria for
success:
3.2   That the number of employed or self-employed graduates would be at least 1.5
times that of a control group, not having graduated from the YTEPP;
(1)   That the earnings of the YTEPP graduates would be at least 20% greater
than those of the Control group.
3.2   While concluding that the Project did not fully meet its original targets, the
Mission acknowledged that the targets were either too ambitious or too stringent.
Some of the significant findings it found emerging from the Tracer Study and
other sources were:
* Participation in YTEPP increased the income of the lowest decile of income
earners by (6%).
* Demand for training exceeded projections. Whereas the SAR projected that
37,000 applicants would have applied to YTEPP at the time of the Review,
above 41,000 applicants had attended by that time.
3  YTEPP graduates showed significant improvements in morale, motivation,
numerical and literary skills.
*  The Programme had received greater recognition by the National Examination
Council (NEC) for its improvement in the quality of curricula.
3  There was more organisational efficiency.
-  The Company had developed effective data collection and research systems
that provided timely relevant data.
*  The Programme had motivated participants to pursue further training.
3.1  Bank Recommendations
3.1.1 In reviewing the key performance indicators of the YTEP Programme, the World
Bank Mission identified critical areas that required immediate attention by the
YTEPP Management, namely:
* High Trainee Attrition Rate.
* Low percentage of graduates obtaining jobs.
* Low percentage of graduates establishing small and micro- businesses.
8



* Courses to become more market driven and labour market oriented.
*  YTEPP to consider strategies for future sustairability including the
introduction of training fees and the reduction of its trainee population from
10,000 to 5,000 annually.
* YTEPP should consider the establishment of a Curriculum Unit to further
develop and produce curriculum materials for use by and sale to other training
organisations with a similar clientele. The quality of the training curricula was
also to be reviewed.
* Trainee-Instructor ratios should be adjusted to reflect the level indicated in the
Staff Appraisal Report.
* YTEPP's RED Unit should review its project activities to have a more
strategic focus to provide key information for sound decision-making by
YTEPP's Board and Management.
* Policy issues and consultations with the Ministry of Education should be
discussed at the highest level to enable the YTEP Programme to define its role
and function within the Educational System of Trinidad and Tobago.
* There should be greater collaboration between YTEPP and the Private and
Public Sectors to forge partnership linkages for possible wage and self-
employment opportunities for its graduates.
3.1.2  An important part of the conclusion of the Mid-Term-evaluation review Report
was that while key pre-established performance targets were not met that this
should not be interpreted to mean that there was failure in YTEPP's management
of the Project. It was stated in the Review Report that YTEPP had made
significant progress in its ability to plan and manage its programmes and that
perhaps the performance targets set may have been too ambitious.
3.1.3  The most serious problems encountered in the implementation of the YTEP
Programme were in the Post Training Assistance Component, namely, the Work
Experience and Credit sub-components, administered by the National Training
Board (NTB) and the Youth Enterprise Support System administered by the Small
Business Development Corporation (SBDC), respectively.
3.1.4  The targets established to measure the success of the YTEPP Programme were the
number of employed or self-employed graduates. However, the credit support for
youth opting for self-employment through the YESS came to a halt in 1992, when
YESS was terminated. In addition, the work-experience placement of YTEPP
graduates by the NTB accounted for only 18% of the total number of YTEPP
graduates who desired wage employment.
3.1.5  In light of the qualitative and quantitative benefits of the YTEP Programme, as
clearly borne out by the Tracer studies conducted on the YTEPP participants, the
Bank decided to continue with its disbursements and to recommend that the
project be allowed to continue for another two years.
9



4     RESTRUCTURING OF YTEPP
4.1  In response to the major issues raised in the Mid-Term-Term Review conducted
by the World Bank in late 1994, the YTEPP Board of Directors and Senior
Management restructured operations to increase focus on quality and levels of
curricula, efficiency and greater linkage with Industry.
4.2   Board Committees comprising Board members and executive directors revised
strategy on programme operations, human resource management, finance and
accounting, and public relations. Some of the programme shifts that resulted from
these planning sessions were: validation of training programmes, development
of in-house curriculum development capacity, two cycles per annum, full-
time training, contract training, greater linkage with Industry.
4.3   As a result, revenue generation has increased as the Programme's services are
increasingly sought for training programmes, apprenticeships, and graduates. The
strengthening of the Entrepreneurial Development Support Service and
Vocational Skills Departments improved the post-training support for the
graduate and facilitated contract training.
5     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
5.1   Original Project Objectives
5.1.1  In the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, 1991) the four (4) principal
project objectives stated are as follows:
-  to improve the quality and relevance of education and training for
employment and self-employment provided by YTEPP through the
development of curriculum, training of instructors and provision of equipment
for training facilities and various training programmes;
*  to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work experience in
private enterprises or public agencies which will facilitate their first entry into
the labour market;
*  to promote self-employment and small business training and the linking of a
network of credit institutions capable of providing loans for small businesses;
and
*  to strengthen the management of the YTEP Programme to enhance the
effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to programme, monitor,
evaluate training and post-training support operations and their impact on
employment.
10



5.1.2  In addition to the above-cited objectives, the World Bank stated that the specific
issues facing the GORTT in implementing the Education and Training for Youth
employment Project were namely:
* Improved career guidance and personal counselling for youth.
* Increased training in attitudinal development and basic literacy and numeracy.
* Improved training and support for self-employment.
* Improved quality and relevance of job skill training.
* Overcoming constraints on implementation of work experience and
apprenticeships.
* Better labour market information to determine short-term training needs.
5.2 Project Start-up
5.2.1  In the early stages of project implementation, YTEPP experienced project delays
as it embarked upon recruitment of suitable managerial staff to implement a more
structured Programme. Procurement of equipment for the administrative and
financial areas also took longer than expected, as project funding remained
uncertain for many months.
5.2.2  Strategic goals and objectives were designed in keeping with the corporate vision
of the company to reflect a more restructured and business oriented YTEPP. The
Company's Mission Statement reads as follows:
YTEPP'S MISSION STATEMENT
"To excel in the provision of high quality, cost effective Human
Resource Development programmes in skills and attitudes through
well trained, motivated staff to enhance self esteem of our nation's
youth and make them employable."
5.2.3  At the commencement of the Bank's funding programme (1991-1993), the major
foci were staff recruitment and procurement of equipment. Other key project
activities included strengthening of research and evaluation, development of
appropriate curricula and training/instructional materials and development of an
appropriate financial system to manage and disburse project funds.
5.2.4  In addition, fostering and developing relationships with private and public sectors
and identifying training sites establishment were all necessary, but time
consuming and costly.
11



5.2.5  The establishment of a Public Relations Unit to market and promote YTEPP's
image, goals and objectives was deemed a priority issue. The need to market and
promote YTEPP increased as the national economy continued to experience
persistent negative growth in the early 1990s.
5.2.6  In 1992, there was a change in government during which the project experienced
delays in receiving project funding which again affected timely project
implementation. Continuous open dialogue with the Ministry of Education and
the Ministry of Planning and Development helped to remove some of these
constraints and the project regained its momentum.
5.3   Achievement of Project Objectives
YTEPP successfully achieved the two of its principal objectives that fell within its
control; it did not fully achieve the other two that were not.
5.3.1 Improvement of Quality and Relevance of Education and Training - Achieved:
The quality and relevance of YTEPP's education and training for wage and self-
employment have improved. A wealth of relevant and customised training syllabi
and curriculum materials for both instructors and trainees for the three (3)
Training Components have been developed and is available for production and
sale. These materials were developed in consultation with experts from the
industrial, business and other governmental agencies to reflect the changing
Labour market trends.
5.3.2  The YTEPP training Package comprised three (3) training Components, each with
its own sub-components namely:
1. Career Enhancement Component
* attitudinal development
* basic/remedial education
2. Vocational/Technical Skill Training Component
* fourteen occupational disciplines
3. Post-Training Assistance Component
* Work-Experience (Apprenticeship)
* Entrepreneurship and Micro-Enterprise Development
The integrated training package provided a range of life skills and job skills
including preparation for the world of work, on-the job training/apprenticeship,
counselling and career guidance, attitudinal development and business skills on
12



how to establish and manage a micro-enterprise.
5.3.3  During the period of World Bank funding YTEPP was able to standardise its
curricula through the process described above and develop learning and teaching
instruments. The syllabi have been modified and adjusted based on feedback
from employers, trainers, and participants. The repeated requests for curricula
from the Ministry of Education and other non-governmental training agencies
point to the quality and relevance of the Programme's documentation.
5.3.4  Continuous upgrading of the technical and training skills of tutors has contributed
to the improvement in quality and relevance. While the process is yet to be
completed, significant improvements in output and impact have been observed in
occupational areas such as secretarial skills, welding and fabrication, fabric
design, family services, secretarial support services, numeracy and literacy,
information processing, auto and diesel maintenance, electrical installation and
food preparation. The development of the Employment Bureau and its expansion
to accommodate requests from employers also attest to the Programme's quality
and relevance.
5.3.5  Since 1988, the Programme has gone through thirteen (13) Cycles. Customised
training was introduced in 1995 and was designed to suit the needs of the
Employers who had requested this training.
5.3.6  The Ministry of Education has identified YTEPP as the premier level I (pre-craft)
training institution in the country. The training services in Certified Welding and
Pipefitting delivered to two Companies in the petrochemical sector also establish
the quality and relevance of YTEPP's programmes to the current economic
environment.
5.3.7  YTEPP training had a positive effect on trainee morale, motivation and attitudinal
development. The Tracer Study (1996) revealed that 40% of YTEPP's graduates
expressed their intention to pursue studies after YTEPP.
5.3.8  YTEPP's training succeeded in raising the literacy and numeracy scores of
trainees, who initially scored low in these areas (see Annex Xl - Analysis of
Literacy and Numeracy Tests).
5.4   Strengthening of Management of YTEPP - Achieved
5.4.1  The YTEPP Programme commenced in 1988. However, in 1991 the GORTT
established YTEPP LTD, with the assistance of loan funds from the World Bank,
to develop a more structured organisation. Key managerial staff was recruited so
that YTEPP could benefit from their private sector experience in developing its
corporate goals and objectives.
13



5.4.2  The Company conducted Strategic Planning Workshops to sensitise managerial
staff to the goals and vision of the YTEPP. Senior managers also benefited from
management training conducted by Human Resource specialists.
5.4.3  A financial management system was developed and staff recruited to provide
accounting and auditing functions required in the smooth operations of the
YTEPP Programme. The Finance and Accounts Department submitted annual
financial reports to the Ministries of Education and Finance and the World Bank
on project expenditures and disbursements.
5.4.4  Capability in procurement of equipment and consumables and resources to
implement training was developed during project implementation.
5.4.5  YTEPP has succeeded in strengthening its senior managerial staff in the areas of
research and data collection in the management of field operations of large scale
centre-based and community-based programmes.
5.5   Work Experience Opportunities for Graduates - Not Fully Achieved
5.5.1  Originally designed to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work
experience or apprenticeships, YTEPP included a Work Experience sub-project
that sought to gain placement in industry and other forms of employment.
Following discussions with the National Training Board, YTEPP referred its
trainees to the latter for job placements.
This objective was not fully met mainly due to the National Training Board's
inability to place the number of trainees it agreed to place in the contractual
relationship with YTEPP. The period 1988-1993/ 1994, was a period of negative
growth (see Figure V in Annex), which probably accounted for the low levels of
placements made by the NTB.
5.5.2  In response to this low placement, the YTEPP Company established its own
Employment Bureau. This Bureau has assisted in securing work experience and
job placements for the Programme's graduates through its Partnership linkages
with Industry, Commerce and governmental Agencies.
Over the last six (6) years, the Employment Bureau and the Public Relations
Department have increased partnership linkages in their efforts to obtain job
placements for graduates.
5.6   Self Employment Opportunities for Graduates - Not Full Achieved:
5.6.1  Like the Work Experience component discussed above, the micro-entrepreneurial
component of the Entrepreneurial Development and Support Services Project
underachieved because of the absence of an effective institutional framework.
The original programme design included financial and technical support by the
14



Small Business Development Company (SBDC) for graduates of the Project.
5.6.2  The Youth Enterprise and Support Systems (YESS) Project was established
within the SBDC to support the efforts of young micro-entrepreneurs through
guarantee funding and technical assistance. The early demise of this Project
eliminated the only support mechanism specifically set up to address graduates of
YTEPP and other programmes.
5.6.3  To address this constraint the EDSS department reorganised itself to provide more
support for its participants. Three new posts were added to the Department. A
Business Development Officer assisted graduates in the preparation of business
plans for use in seeking credit from a number of credit institutions (Fund-Aid,
SBDC, Credit Unions, ADB, Commercial Banking Institutions). A Support
Services Officer facilitated workshops and lectures on relevant topics and
assisted with the mounting of Craft Exhibitions to showcase and promote
products and services the graduates. The Company also employed a Field Project
Officer to visit and monitor the status and progress of graduate entrepreneurs,
advising them, wherever and whenever possible, on their needs and deficiencies
in operating a viable business.
5.6.4  The results of these efforts have been encouraging (see project results in Annex),
however, many of the successful entrepreneurs have had to rely mainly on self
and family financing to survive and grow. While the Fundaid organisation has
funded some YTEPP graduates, it does not provide the scope and range of
services envisaged for YESS.
6.    SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS
6.1   The discontinuation during project implementation of key goverunental support
systems designed to assist the YTEPP's graduates seeking wage and self-
employment adversely affected the Project's achieving success in the Post-
Assistance Training Component. These Agencies have now been discontinued
and are presented as follows:
*  The Youth Enterprise Support System (YESS), which would have offered a
range of business development services, including the extension of credit by
the Small Business Development Company (SBDC) to potential entrepreneurs
between 15-30 years;
*  The Labour Information System (LMIS), which was designed to collect,
analyse and disseminate information needed by both training and employment
organisations in planning their education and training activities in light of
Labour market conditions and prospects;
*  The Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilisation (AIM) which was developed
to provide immediate short-term employment for substantial numbers of
skilled,
15



trained, unemployed youths (15-25). The AIM Programme was later replaced
by the National Apprenticeship Scheme (NAS) under the management of the
National Training Board (NTB) of the Ministry of Education.
6.2   Use of school plant proved to be both positive and disadvantageous. Access to
plant and some equipment reduced capital costs and cost of training; however, the
Principals' insistence that teaching staff must come from the school within which
the YTEPP centre was located restricted the selection of personnel to available
teachers.
6.3   Access to plant and equipment in schools also became problematic when
Principals, for one reason or the other, restricted YTEPP personnel from
workshops, kitchens, or model offices.
6.4   An assessment of the problem of attrition revealed that trainee attrition was
primarily due to the availability of short-term temporary job opportunities
provided by other governmental programmes such as the Unemployment Relief
Programme (URP) and the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC).
6.5   The negative growth of the Economy over the life of the project implementation
was a critical factor in the low absorption of YTEPP's graduates in the Labour
Market.
6.6   Changes in the political directorate impacted on the implementation of the
Project, as each new administration felt the need to review the Programme.
6.7   The intense construction activity in the South/Central areas of the country made it
difficult to attract skilled personnel for the construction related areas.
7.   INITIATIVES FOR PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1  In 1996, the YTEPP Company Limited launched a new strategic direction to lay
the path for sustainability: Having assessed the changing socio-economic
environment, and the need for more revenue creation, the Company introduced
fee-based training, initially geared to the Construction sector, to complement its
mainstream  programmes.  Later, customised training, and apprenticeship
programmes were offered to both the private and public sectors.
7.2  In its strategic plan, the organisation determined that its main target group,
unemployed youth, would continue to need subsidised training, and developed
strategies to provide this training more effectively and efficiently. It also decided,
however, that it could generate revenue by providing fee-based training services
to a wider population.
16



7.3   The following strategies have been implemented during the two-(2) year project
extension: (see Figure II in Annex).
* The introduction of modular based training at two levels, namely Level I (pre-
craft) which can be described as "supply-driven" and Level II (craft) which
can be described as "demand-driven". The shift to this type of training
enabled YTEPP to better respond to the needs of the Private Sector.
* The introduction of two (2) six-month training cycles instead of one nine
month cycle achieved stated objective of reducing trainee attrition.
* The establishment of closer links with the private and public sectors enabled
YTEPP to more effectively market its services.
*  Continuous revision and improvement of curricula and trainers.
* Introduction of full time centres in collaboration with selected industrial and
business organisations and NGO's to produce a more qualified graduate.
* Closer collaboration with other training organisations to identify and reduce
areas of duplication of training efforts.
* The validation and certification of all training programmes by the National
Examinations Council (NEC) of the Ministry of Education.
8.    BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1   The Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the YTEPP
Project was satisfactory. The Bank staff members, during their annual supervision
missions, provided technical and financial guidance to the GORTT and the
Implementing Agency, YTEPP, in a professional and cordial manner. The Bank's
staff members were always willing to share their knowledge and expertise gained
from other developing as well as developed countries in an effort to clarify or
assist the GORTT in the implementation of the project. They also maintained
flexibility when delays were encountered and assisted the project team to get back
on track. The technical guidance and assistance provided by the Bank during
project implementation assisted the staff's development of monitoring and project
management capabilities. The Borrower and the Implementing Agency enjoyed
the cordial and professional relationship of the staff members of the Bank, who
remained accessible in providing technical advice, whenever it was needed.
8.2   The Bank's supervisory missions were adequate and timely and the advice
provided was always well considered by the GORTT and implemented, whenever
feasible. The Bank also assisted in advising the GORTT and the YTEPP in
matters relating to disbursement and procurement.
17



9.    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.1   The GORTT is fully aware of the constraints experienced in the implementation
of such a large-scale training project as YTEPP and views the implementation of
the programme in light of the overall project results and project achievements, as
highly satisfactory. Key project objectives were achieved except for those areas
that were affected by external circumstances outside the control of YTEPP.
State institutions such as the NTB, AIM, YESS, anid the SBDC which were
designed in the original project to provide the necessary support for YTEPP
graduates to obtain work experience and access to credit to become self employed
did not function as intended. The Ministry of Education assisted in the facilitation
of the delivery of the YTEPP programme throughout the country as forty-two (42)
of its school physical plants was utilised by YTEPP as training venues, after
normal school hours.
During the early stages of project implementation, the YTEPP experienced some
delays that were as a result of a change in Government and changes in the Board
of Directors. At this same period of change, uncertainty as to the continuation and
future of YTEPP adversely affected the credibility of the Company. Funding had
to be allocated to mount a widespread promotion of the company's goals,
objectives and corporate Mission, which proved effective but expensive.
Throughout the entire project duration, the GORTT remained committed to the
funding of the YTEPP programme.
10.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
10.1  Total project cost for project implementation including procurement of equipment
and administrative costs amounted to US$ 31.9 million, of which the World Bank
loan was US $20.7 million (65%) and the GORTT's counterpart funding was US$
11.2 million (35%). Further details on the project cost and financing of the
various project components are described in Annexes XIII and XIV.
18



11.   KEY FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
11.1  Unemployment derived from a lack of skills or inappropriate skills can be
reversed for socially vulnerable groups through programmes that combine
vocational training, life skill training, self-development training, and
entrepreneurial training.  YTEPP's tracer studies have demonstrated the
Programme's impact on the employment, earnings and behaviour of graduates
and their favourable labour market performance, when compared to that of their
peers. However, the absence of a well-developed institutional framework reduced
the effectiveness of the Programme.
11.2  Communication skills seem to be as critical as technical skills for young entrants
to the labour market. YTEPP's graduates in the survey indicated that the Career
Enhancement training was more influential in their obtaining jobs than their
vocational skills. This finding emphasises the wide gap existing between the
knowledge and skills of secondary school graduates and the expectations of
employers.
11.3  While the Programme attracted its stated target group and successfully enhanced
its marketability, recruitment, selection and supervision of trainers and
supervisors remain major challenges. Training of trainers will continue to be a
major cost item for the Programme as it attempts to build its cadre of appropriate
personnel.
11.4  Research and Evaluation were critical to the success of the Project. The Research
and Evaluation Unit throughout the life of the Project provided analyses and
information that facilitated decision making.
11.5  The socio-economic conditions that gave rise to the establishment of the YTEPP
as a social intervention for youth unemployment still persist in 1998. YTEPP has
developed significant competencies within the organisation and can now deliver
customised training packages to other groups. These may fall within the broad
categories of uneducated and skilled, uneducated and unskilled, and educated and
unskilled, inclusive of women, retrenched workers, retired workers, prison
inmates and workers in need of upgrade training.
11.6  The market for training has expanded. Positive economic growth has stimulated
demand for skills that are in short supply. Established training institutions have
been unable to adjust to satisfy this demand for trained workers. YTEPP is well
poised, because of its strong partnership linkages, its flexibility and its autonomy,
to take advantage of these opportunities.
11.7 YTEPP has emerged as a national leader in the areas of micro-entrepreneurial
training, attitudinal development training in life skills and basic/remedial
education, curriculum development and the production of learning and
19



instructional materials.
11.8  The decision to set up YTEPP as a Limited Liability Company proved to be an
excellent one as it empowered the Board of Directors to focus on its mandate to
enhance the employability of out of school, unemployed youth. The structure
facilitated quick decision making and accountability.
11.9  Originally placed in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, YTEPP's re-location to the
Ministry of Education facilitated access to equipment, plant and personnel.
11.10 On completion of World Bank funding, the role of the Board of Directors of
YTEPP must be clearly defined and agreed upon between YTEPP and the
GORTT so that the YTEPP can indeed function as earlier envisaged, outside the
constraints and bureaucracy of the public service.
11.11 The success of the management of the YTEPP was in large measure due to the
commitment and loyalty of its staff and the centralisation of its financial and
administrative systems. These systems can be shared with other programmes that
will fall under the National Training Agency (NTA), when this institution is
created in the near future.
12.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
12.1  In June 1998, the Cabinet re-assigned YTEPP to the newly created Ministry of
Information, Communication, Training, and Distance Learning. This Ministry is
now responsible for co-ordinating all training programmes and will also house the
National Training Agency when it comes on stream in October 1998.
12.2  As it positions itself as the main provider of Level I & II training programmes,
YTEPP Ltd has redefined its corporate objectives in its Strategic Plan 1998 -
2000 as follows:
To provide trainees with quality training that will enable them
to meet the standards set by their particular trades in the
production of goods and services.
12.3  In pursuit of these objectives, the company has developed a nineteen (19) point
action plan to address specific needs. Some of these activities have already been
implemented and some are being implemented in cycle XIV and beyond. Each
heading has a number of activities attached. For the purposes of this report only
the headings have been included. Further details can be derived from the
document cited above.
* The need to establish reason for YTEPP's continued existence
* The need to align YTEPP to G.O.T.T. objectives and emerging Labour
Market
20



requirements.
* The need to review the existing target groups
*  The need to enhance YTEPP's image and credibility of Programmes
*  The need to develop criteria to target and measure YTEPP's success
*  The need to maximise performance output of available human resource
*  The need to restructure the organisation to pursue emerging strategic direction
*  The need to address the issue of the Board's Authority
*  The need for structural support for shift towards full time centres
*  The need to rationalise location of training venues and nature of course
offerings
*  The need for enhanced logistics planning and management
*  The need for enhanced information, research and evaluation functions
-  The need for enhanced support services
*  The need for expanded curriculum development unit
-  The need to review existing systems and processes to ensure more efficient
response to client's needs
e  The need to resolve issues impacting on the quality of human resource output
-  The need to ensure that technological systems contribute effectively to value
added
*  The need for more effective management of the use of assets and facilities
*  The need to improve the quality of information systems hardware to facilitate
effective managerial decision making.
21



* Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime): Trinidad and Tobago, Report on Youth
Involvement in Crimes (15-25): Minor Offences. Minor Crimes, and Serious Crimes.
Commissioner's Office, March 1998.
* Campbell T. Donald, Stanley C. Julian: Experimental and Quasi- Experimental
Designs for Research., Houghton Mifflin Company Boston (1963).
* C. S.O. (1993), Continuous Sample Survey of Population: Labour Force Report,
Office of the Prime Minister. Central Statistical Office, 1995, pgs. 9, 102-104.
*  C. S.O. (1996), Continuous Sample Survey of Population: Labour Force Report,
Office of the Prime Minister. Central Statistical Office, (1997), pgs. 1,7, 94-96.
* Ministry of Social Development: The Determination and Measurement of Poverty in
Trinidad and Tobago: Indications from the 1992 Survey of Living Conditions.
Ministry of Social Development (1996).
*  Morris Lyons Lynn: How to communicate Evaluation Findings, Sage Publications
1987.
WORLD BANK DOCUMENTS
* Bedi Singh Arjun, Newman John, Rawlings Laura (The World Bank), Bowrin Leslie
(YTEPP), The Effect Of Trinidad and Tobago's Youth Training and Employment
Partnership on Graduates Earnings. World Bank /YTEPP, September 1994, pg. 6.
* Newman John, Gertler Paul and Laura Rawlings: Evaluating Social Sector Programs
in Developing Countries: A case for Opportunistic Randomization, World Bank
(1993).
* World Bank, Trinidad and Tobago Poverty and Unemployment in an Oil Based
Economy. World Bank (1995).
*  World Bank, Mid Term Review, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Education and
Training For Youth Em lovment Project. World Bank Dec. 1994.
*  World Bank (1991) Staff Appraisal Report of the Youth Training and Employment
Partnership Programme.
*  World Bank Supervision Mission Reports (1988-).



YTEPP DOCUMENTS
*  Bowrin Leslie Mr.: Report on Tracer Study of YTEPP's Second Cycle Graduates
(1989 -1990) Research, Evaluation and Documentation Unit, (Dec. 1993). Pg. 2, 16,
17, 27.
*  Bowrin Leslie Mr.: Report on the 1996 Tracer Study, Department of Programme
Operations, 1997.
*  Brown Deryck: YTEPP Beyond 1998 (A Position Paper)
*  Sampson Madonna Ms.: Profile of Applicants and Graduates Cycle IV (1991-1992),
Research, Evaluation and Documentation Unit (Feb. 1994), pgs. 8, 31.
-  Sampson Madonna Ms.: Profile of Applicants and Graduates Cycle III, (1990-1991),
Research Evaluation and Documentation Unit. (March 1993).
*  Sampson Madonna Ms.: Feedback Report on Trainees' Perception Cycle IV. (1991-
1992) Research Evaluation and Documentation Unit, March 1994.
-  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programne: Proposal For YTEPP To
Continue And Utilize "Unused Funds" For A Three (3) Year Period. (1996-1998)
June 1995.
-  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme: Strategic Plan 1998-2000
*  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme (YTEPP) Limited. 1994,
Annual Report. (August 1992- December 1993. Cycle V and Cycle VI- Phase I).
Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme, February 1994.
*  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme: YTEPP's Mid -Term
Report Draft III, Youth Training and Employment Programme, October 1994.
*  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme (YTEPP) Limited.
Statistical Report Cycle XI Phase I- January 1997. Research, Evaluation and
Documentation Unit.
*  Youth Training and Employment Partnership Programme (YTEPP) Limited.
Statistical Report Cycle XI Phase II- June 1997. Research, Evaluation and
Documentation Unit.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22559
5, - .                                                                                         0^Ji~la t'-"e"p~^'  61'30'          61 20'                             6110'                              61D0
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  R   B  i8+.g EA.   :¢N, . S                                                 on SuA                                                                         10 50'
o    _     DOA        R C ,     EWRD D.     I  -                                                                                                                                 M
AMCA    4Nrr _ 5                 -qh sh... '--
('  iVp E u, oooo-  -       r     n -  J -
'      -. ' OD DAD ODD IOEAGO. 'rr                                                                                                     s 
Jo@I9 VFNEEI,ELA   >4   .    slonds                                          I rF,cJc  M u ,,,   \   '\'-   d5t   /    \  sl.Dd
F ~     ~       ~       (                             Br      EevorD  o5 ,  _    \        _OO/n                                 Cu        u c9                mgPn
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAINING FOR EMPLOYMENT vAR9S>,e  
OF  PARTICIPANTS,c31<n''° og
1 989-1990 ogcn 5  \- ')    9,
YTEPP Centers:                                                                        C  ron3 2           ogev  e       X Rpr                                                1l-3
10 30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-0
3            Under 200 partcipnts                                                  
200-500 paorhciponts                                                                    t       CrJS              /                        
IIEd       Over 500 particIpants                                                                     Fr          po        A            /                i                 =\
-         SeniorBComprehensive-ni S.C
O        Junior Secondory CNuvaRJS A D NMBE_  __ Ton                                                                                \
Composite ofro  obule  hum 
7 5         Government SecondaryPo    ss                                                            )                 \         T                                                             \
Main Roads                                                                CotnByl              F        ~           _         tj\                                                             P  ui
-1020          - -- --    Unpaved Roads                                                               lo,ntonBa ;v Psperrre  C                                                   ChVocCsile                    Soos
^DistriCt Boundaries ooll5  etn , r irwle
4.        Airports Peo ril   t  T  
OF  PoRTsCPNS
Rivers                                                L  ro          SnFrod            M       <    /       C      \     d      <       9       t 
Swamps                                     Biho    <=                                 a                  g
1989B1990
020000IS          20        25partic
-105                  MILES... 150    I,,                         ? cna,  S 3       yaaroC
Cedros, Se  Gd           v_
pollR            Gor o   e --eo       y -                                               P. LG5
-          Main Roads                                                                  l-  BaWyS                           CHANNEL
61'50                              640                                6a30                                61-20                              0110'                              600'
L_               I                                  I                                  l                                   l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGJST 1 VVE



