Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZQAJ                              77P
Report No.9065-TR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1991
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docoment has a rted ditibution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their oficisi duies. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without Would Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Currency Equivalents
(As of December 1, 1990)
Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TT$) - US$4.25
UrS$1.00 - TT$0.23
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
AIM         Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilization
CEE         Common Entrance Examination
cSO         Central Statistical Office
CXC         Caribbean Examination Council
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
ILO         International Labor Organization
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LMIS        Labor Market Information System
MOE         Ministry of Education
NTB         National Training Board
OJT         On-the-Job Training Program
SBDC        Small Business Development Company
SERVOL      Service Volunteered For All
sSU         Social Sectors Unit
TAL         Technical Assistance Loan
TVETD       Technical-Vocational Education Training Division
YESS        Youth Enterprise Support System
YTEPP       Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMWICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TRNTDUD AND TOUGO
EDVCATTON AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH DMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY ...      .............. . . . ... *..*# * .........*iii
I.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT BACKGROUND  .......................  1
II. EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..................... .......  ...    . 6
Formal and Non-Formal Education ............ . . ............  6
Youth Training and Employment Programs ..........................     7
Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP)    ..8
Issues in the YTLPP Program ... ..        .      .................. 9
Bank Assistance Strategy and Experience of Past Lending              12
Rationale for Bank Involvement              ............12
III. THE PROJECT.......                                   ..     ....... 13
Origin of the Project... .                             ..13
Project Objectives                   ..... 13
Project Components .................. 13
Project Costs and Financing                   ..21
Project Implementation and Management.                   .      ..  22
Procurement                     ............ .. 23
Di,bursements.. .                                    ......... ..... 25
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing..                         .....  26
Benefits and Risks     .     ........... .       .         ...    27
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ...         ......28
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Trinidad and Tobago in October 1990 comprising M. Potashnik (Mission Leader),
B. Dahlborg (Sr. Training Specialist), J. Nevman (Economist), H. Perrett
(Social Sector Consultant), W. Hobbs (Technical Education Analyst) and Lesa
Morrison and M. Pradhan (Consultants). M. V. Lister, Q. Bui (LA3HR), and C.
Lucas (Consultant, LA3HR) contributed to the preparation of the report. The
peer reviewers were E. Schreiber (LA3HR) and C. Shaw (AFlPH).
This document has a restricted distribution and maly be used by recipients only in the perfiorrnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Li -
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1s  Labor Force and Employment, 1982-89
ANNEX 2s  Background on the YTEPP
Attachment As List of Centers, 1988/89
Attachment B: Distribution of Applicants by Courses, 1988/89
ANNEX 3:
Annex 3.1   Labor Market Information System (LMIS)
Annex 3.2   Tracer Studies
Annex 3.3   Career Enhancement Sub-Component
Annex 3.4   Job Skills Training Sub-Component
Attachment A: Center-Based Course Offerings (1990/91 and
1991-92)
Attachment Bs Number of Training Shops and Laboratories and
Estimated Costs of Supplemental Equipment
Attachment C: Technical Assistance
Annex 3.5  Work Experience Sub-Component
Annex 3.6   Self-Employment Sub-Component
ANNEX 4:
Annex 4.1   Summary Accounts by Project Component
Annex 4.2   Project Cost Summary
Annex 4.3   Project Cost Estimates by Year and Project Costs by Category
of Expenditure
ANNEX 5:
Annex 5.1   Project Management and Implementation
Attachment: YTEPP Organization Chart
Annex 5.2   Implementation Schedule - November 1990-December 1991
Annex 5.3   Key Indicators and Outputs for Monitoring and Evaluation
ANNEX 6s
Annex 6.1   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.2   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 7:
Annex 7.1   Procurement Services - Terms of Reference
Annex 7.2   Proposed Equipment - Procurement Schedule
ANNEX 8:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP  IBRD 22559



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
BeneficiAriess           Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program,
Ltd.; Ministry of Education
Loan Amounts            US$20.7 million
Terms:                  Payable in 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
On Lending Termst        The loan proceeds would be provided to YTEPP, Ltd. by
the Borrower in a grant basis
Project Objectives:      The proposed project would assist the Government of
Trinidad and Tobago to improve the design, delivery,
and effectiveness of the Youth Training and Employment
Partnership Program (YTEPP) which offers education and
training and other support services to youth to
enhance their employability and self-employment
prospects. This will be achieved by pursuing four key
objectivest
(a)  to improve the quality and relevance of YTEPP's
education and training for employment and self-
employment provided to 10,000 youth annually,
through the development of new and improved
curriculum, training of instructors and upgrading
of teaching materials and facilities in basic
education, motivational and attitudinal training,
life skills, job skills, and small business
development;
(b)  to increase the opportunities offered to youth to
acquire supervised work experience in private
enterprises and public agencies which will
facilitate their first entry into the labor
market;
(c)  to promote self-employment initiatives of youth
through practical training in key small business
skills and strengthening of a network of credit
institutions capable of providing loans to small
businesses; and



- iv -
(d)  to strengthen the management of the YTEPP program
to enhance the effectiveness of its education and
training activities and capacity to program,
monitor and evaluate its training and post-
training support operations and their impact on
youth employment.
Project Benefits:       The project would help moderate the social consequences
of adjustment by providlig opportunities for as many as
10,000 youth annually over five years to acquire
remedial education and marketable skills for employment
or self-employment. Of these, an estimated 1,500 youth
each year would acquire, in addition, work experience
in private enterprises and public sector agencies in
preparation for wage and self-employment. Finally, the
project would also foster self-employment by providing
practical business training to about 2,000 youth
annually, and by strengthening a network of credit
institutions which aims to make 1,800 loans to youth
for microenterprise development during the life of the
project.
Project Risks:          There are two major risks.  The first risk relates to
the possible failure of the overall reform program to
generate sufficient growth in employment opportunities
to absorb the youth from the YTEPP program. This risk
is addressed by the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan
currently under implementation. The second is the
current shortcomings of YTEPP's administrative
machinery and that of other Government agencies to
manage the diverse activities of the project in a
timely and efficient manner. To counter this risk, the
Government has already set up YTEPP as a company
outside the normal administrative constraints of a
government agency. Frequent and intensive Bank
supervision is planned to guide YTEPP in implementing
the project and in complying with Bank procedures and
requirements. Finally, annual implementation reviews
of the project with the Bank would enable YTEPP to make
needed adjustments in its management and intake of
trainees, the design of training courses and other
support provided, in light of experience.



- v -
Estimated Proiect Costs
2      ZTotal
Local     Foreign   Total  Foreign   Base
--------USS Million------  Exchange  Cost
Project Components:
A. Education & Training          13.8         2.8      16.6       17      60
B. Post-Training
Assistance                     2.7         0.1       2.8        2      10
C. Program Management
Strengthening                  7.5         0.8       8.3        9      30
TOTAL BUSE COSTS                 24.0         3.7      27.7       13     100
Physical Contingencies             -           -                   -      -
Price Contingencies               3.9         0.4       4.3        8      15
TOTAL PROJECT COST a/            au 0A
a!  Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan                                   -- US$ million --
Government of Trinidad and Tobago                      1;.2
Proposed IBRD Loan                                     20.7
Total                                                  aLuA
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Bank FY                  1991    1992   1993    1994   1995    1996
--------------- US$ million --------------
Annual                   2.1      3.3    4.2      4.2    4.2      2.7
Cumulative               2.1      5.4    9.6    13.8   18.0    20.7
Rate of Returns Not applicable
Hap:              IBRD 22559



REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
1.1       Economic Background.  Following a dramatic decline in economic
performance since the early 19803, the Government adopted in 1988 a medium-
term economic program which aims to restructure the economy and restore
economic growth. The main objectives are tot (i) secure a resumption of
economic growth; (ii) diversify the economy by strengthening non-oil
production activities (i.e. agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism) so as to
introduce greater resilience to the economic base; (iiI) achieve viability in
the fiscal and balance of payments accounts; and (iv) improve resource
allocation. The Government is attempting to stimulate the economy by
improving the conditions for growth in private investment and exports and has
introduced a realistic exchange rate policy for maintaining export
competitiveness and stimulating growth in non-traditional exports. The
Government also is reducing the demands of the public sector on the economy by
rationalizing the state enterprises sector throught (i) closing companies
which are not viable; (ii) reducing its ownership in companies which have
potential to attract private investment; and (iii) restructuring the capital
base and improving the management of companies which have strategic national
Importance.
1.2       Economic Crisis.  The decline in output over the past seven years
has resulted in a sharp reduction in real per capita income of more than one
half since 1982. Reductions also occurred in social sector expenditures and
social services. Central Government expenditures on education (in dollars of
1988) went from US$214 million in 1982 to US$184 million in 1988 while
expenditures on health went from US$120 million to US$110 million. Total
expenditures on programs for poverty alleviation fell from just under US$173
million in 1985 to around US$115 million in 1988 (in dollars of 1988). The
economic crisis appears to have returned Trinidad and Tobago to the poverty
level of the early 1970s. Whereas in 1972, 25 percent of the population was
living in poverty, estimates for 1988 suggest that over 20 percent were living
in poverty.
1.3       Emloyment Problem. The economic decline since 1982 has led to a
sharp increase in unemployment considered by Government to be the most serious
problem facing the country. The exclusion of large portions of the population
from the mainstream of economic activity represents a major loss to the
economy. It is also a cause of social alienation, and a corrosive factor in
society. From the onset of the recession in 1982183 unemployment climbed from
42,000 or 9.5 percenit of the labor force to 107,000 or 23 percent by the third
quarter of 1989 (Table 1).



- 2 -
Table 1 : LABOR ./ORCE AND EMPLOYMENT, 1982-89
(Thousands of persons)
1982    1983   1984    1985    1986   1988    1989
Labor Force            445.0 452.8   478.7   473.9   472.0   477.0   477.4
Employed               402.7 401.6   411.2   397.6   387.9   372.1   370.0
Unemployed              42.3  51.2    67.5    76.3    84.1   104.9   107.4
(Percent of total labor force)
Employed                90.5  88.7    85.9    83.9    82.2    78.0    77.5
Unemployed               9.5  11.3    14.1    16.1    17.8    22.0    22.5
Source: Central Statistical Office.
Due to the cutbacks in public capital expenditure and in private construction
projects, it is estimated that employment in the construction sector declined
by 43 percent between 1982 and 1989. The fall in demand has also resulted in
a reduction of employment in manufacturing estimated at 23 percent over the
same period. The working age population with jobs plunged from 54 percent to
44 percent. Overall employment contracted by more than 30,000 jobs while
labor availability and supply grew by a comparable amount (Annez 1). Net out-
migration of some 12,000 annually helped to reduce the growth in labor supply.
However, this also contributed to the scarcity of skilled manpower which the
country badly needs for the reconstruction effort.
1.4       Informal Sector.  The contraction of modern sector wage-employment
has led to the growth of an informal sector which has absorbed large numbers
of workers. The informal sector encompasses a wide variety of economic
activities, typically carried out in small units, by one, or a few individuals
with little capital and low efficiency. Since 1982 there has been a steady
shift in employment from the formal to the informal sector, although this
movement is difficult to quantify. Data on informal sector employment are
aggregated with data on public sector employment in the Government's household
survey snd labor statistics. Nonetheless, a preliminary analysis of wage and
non-wage employment shows that since 1982 there has been a steady decline in
wage employment compared to non-wage employment from a peak level of 82
percent to some 71 percent in 1989; this is equivalent to a decline of 61,000
jobs in wage employment. Meanwhile, non-wage employment surged by almost 68
percent over the period 1982-86 registering an absolute net gain of some
37,000 jobs. Since the prospects for modern-sector wage-employment for all
who seek it are dim--particularly for youth--the opportunities for work in the
informal sector need to be better understood and exploited by the Government
and YTEPP.
1.5       Wages.  Despite chronic conditions of manpower underuse and open
unemployment, earnings rose extremely rapidly in the 1970s.  However, these
gains were unevenly distributed resulting in large wage gaps between workers



-3-
with comparable skills in the protected "high wage" sector and in the "low-
wage' sector subject to the discipline of competitive markets. Despite the
large wage gap, even unskilled labor commanded wages that were high enough to
make it difficult for the country to compete in non-oil export markets.
Workers in the protected sectors managed to preserve their 1982 real wage
levels, on average, through 1985, despite substantial deterioration in
economic conditions. Since 1985, however, real wages have been falling
sharply and broadly across occupations and industries. By mid-1989, an index
of nominal wages in the formal sector was 44 percent of its 1985 level. These
lower wages, combined with depreciation of the TT$ of more than 40 percent
against the US$ since late 1985, should open opportunities for economic
activities, particularly in agriculture and food processing industries.
1.6       'Retrenched" Workers.  Those workers who lost their jobs since 1982
are a special group of unemployed persons. Many possess skills and work
experience which can be re-absorbed into the work force when economic recovery
begins to take place. Some of these workers have entered into low-paying jobs
in the urban informal sector contributing to falling wage levels. Government
estimates indicate there have been about 29,000 such retrenchments since 1982.
ThiE number is expected to grow by an additional 20,000 persons, mainly from
public sector employment, over the next few years. The retrenched workers are
a serious economic and social problem for the country and Government is
developing social policies and support programs, such as the labor intensive
development projects and re-training schemes to help these workers during the
period of economic adjustment.
1.7       Youth Employment.  Youth employment is one of Trinidad and Tobago's
most serious social problems. An estimated 43,000 youth were unemployed in
the last quarter of 1989. The unemployed and idle youth are less employable
than retrenched workers because of their lack of skills, experience, and poor
attitudes towards work. The acute nature of the youth unemployment problem is
revealed in extremely high rates of open unemployment. In the third quarter
of 1989 41 percent of the 15-19 age group and 39 per,ent of those 20 to 24
were unemployed. These rates are in sharp contrast with the overall rate of
22 percent for the working age population at-large. Youth idleness is equally
alarming. In the third quarter of 1989, 43 percent of youth 15-24 were
neither working nor studying (Table 2).



- 4 -
Table 2s PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY OF YOUTH BY AGE
(July-Sept. 89) (Percent Share)
15 Yrs.   15-24      15-19      20-24
& Older   Yrs.       Yrs.       Yrs.
All Activities                 100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Working or at school            52.3     57.4        68.5       4S.8
Working                       44.3     29.8       17.3        43.1
At School                      8.0     27.6        51.2        2.8
Idle                            47.7     42.6       31.5        54.2
Unemployed                    12.9     19.1       11.3        27.4
Keeping House                 19.9     13.3       11.3        15.4
Otherwise Idle                14.9     10.1        8.9        11.4
Unemployment Rate               22.0     40.0       41.0        39.0
Source: Central Statistical Office
The high rate of youth idleness and withdrawal from the labor market is
partially explained by the poor job prospects open to youth. However, it is
also widely held in Trinidad and Tobago that many youth are reluctant to do
menial work for low wages. Many youth are able to hold out for better jobs
because of the support given by family networks.
1.8       The Youth Population and the Labor Market.  In mid-1989, the youth
population (15-24 years of age) totalled some 227,000 or 18 percent of the
total population. According to World Bank demographic projections, the youth
population increase will be mall, increasing from 239,000 in 1990 to 257,000
in the year 2000. About 25,000 young people either graduate or drop out from
secondary school annually, and about 40 percent of them enter the labor market
or proceed to higher education. The rest become part of the idle working-age
population. There are also many youth in the labor market who have not
succeeded in gaining a place in the secondary school system. Annually, some
8,000 youth 14+ years of age fall into this group, a large portion of whom
ultimately become part of the idle category. These numbers are expected to
remain constant in the next decade. While youth are having great difficulties
in finding any kind of wage employment, many do have jobs in the service,
trade, agriculture and manufacturing sectors. Youth also make up about 25
percent of self-employed workers.
1.9       Unemployment and Economic Growth. Alleviation of unemployment rests
heavily on the ability of the economy to resume growth. The current economic
adjustment program aims to create conditions for growth principally through
renewed public and private investment, controls over public expenditures,
increased efficiencies in production, and diversification of exports. The



5-
Covernment's I Medium-Term Macro Planning Framework 1989-19950 aims to reduce
the unemployment rate from the current 22 percent to 19 percent. To achieve
this target, the economy would have to rebound soon attaining an annual growth
rate of some 4 percent and begin creating new jobs at a rate never attained
before. While growth is expected to pick up in 1991, macro-projections show
that annual growth rates of 4 percent are unlikely to occur on a sustained
bases before 1994. The near-term prospects are further darkened by the
possible loss of public sector jobs within the next two to three years as a
result of expenditure rsduction measures.
1.10      Implications for Employment Creation.  Little expansion in
employment opportunities in the private formal sector car' be expected before
1992. Over the five-year period up to 1995, the labor force is expected to
grow by some 57,000 new entrants thus increasing the total demand for new jobs
to 164,000. The modest prospects for growth in modern-sector wage-employment
over the medium term suggest that new employment and income-earning
opportunities will have to come increasingly from the informal sector.
Unfortunately, there are no reliable means for determining how many new jobs
might be created in the informal sector in the years ahead. There is high
labor absorption potential in the informal sector in agriculture. The extent
to which the informal sector can absorb new workers--especially unemployed
youth--without reducing incomes below poverty standards, is impossible to
determine from the available data. However, it is clear that government
programs like the Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP)
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) like Service Volunteered for All
(SERVOL) play a vital role in helping youth acquire the skills and motivation
needed to succeed in wage and self-employment.
i.11      Government Strategy for Youth Employment.  Government's strategy
for dealing with youth unemployment consists of helping youth improve their
preparedness for work. This involves increasing employability through pre-
service education and training aiming ats (i) achieving widespread increases
in the levels of literacy and numeracy; (ii) providing skills for income
earning activities; (iii) fostering self-reliance and positive attitudes
towards work; and (iv) encouraging and supporting entrepreneurship and
self-employment, with assistance from financial organizations such as the
Small Business Development Company (SBDC). The SBDC is a new public
institution which administers technical assistance and a loan guarantee
program supported by public funds and a contribution from the National Gas
Company to foster loans for small business development. The National Gas
Company's contribution has been earmarked to guarantee loans made to YTEPP's
trainees. SBDC is taking the lead role under a newly established Youth
Enterprise Support System (YESS) in linking financial institutions capable of
providing small loans to young entrepreneurs (para. 2.14). Existing education
and training programs, private and public, for unemployed youth in Trinidad
end Tobago operate on a quite mall scale, at most 2,000 trainees per year
(paras. 2.5-2.6). The Government is also trying to rationalize these training
programs to avoid unnecessary duplication of activity. YTEPP is the
Government's emergency and temporary program for preparing youth for
mployment on an adequate scales created in 1988, it will continue to receive
support during the macro plan period 1989-95.



II. EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A. Formal and Non-Formal Education
2.1       Education System.  Since independence in 1962, Trinidad and Tobago
has assigned high priority to the development of its education system. Under
its 15-year Education Development Plan (1968-83) and its five-year Education
Plan (1985-90), Government made major capital investments in education and has
allocated from 12 to 20 percent of total annual public expenditures to
education. Investments in education have had notable results: the adult
literacy rate is now 96 percent, primary education is available to all
children, and secondary education is about 78 percent (1988). However, the
quality of education has not kept up with the expansion of educational
opportunity. First, the expansion of the secondary school facilities under
the 1968-83 Education Plan was achieved to some extent at the expense of the
primary school system, resulting in a fall in the quality of output from the
primary schools. Second, performance at the secondary school level has been
disappointing. The combination of low quality education in primary school and
the practice of automatic promotion by age, has resulted in extremely poor
performance of the senior secondary comprehensive schools and other schools in
national examinations. As a consequence, a large number of youth who leave
the education system and enter the labor market have significant educational
deficiencies, particularly low achievement in literacy and numeracy.
2.2       Technical Education and Vocational Training.  The Ministry of
Education (MOE) operates 31 senior secondary and senior comprehensive schools
offering two-year programs in 14 career fields at the technical and craft
levels. The total average annual output is about 6,000 graduates. Due to
serious deficiencies in training equipment and instructional materials, and
the frequent lack of appropriate business/industrial experience of
instructors, the quality of the output has been poor. Only 18 percent of the
45,000 candidates who took the national craft, pre-technician and technician
examinations, between 1980-88, obtained satisfactory passes. In an attempt to
improve this situation, the TVETD, a major division of the MOE, and the
National Training Board (NTB) are revising the course syllabi and assessment
procedures. After the last of these are completed in about 1993, it Is
expected that the quality of the output will be improved.  Most importantly,
MOE is considering a fundamental change of deferring specialized craft
training to post-secondary education to ensure that all students at the
secondary level obtain a sound basic education for life as well as work.
2.3       Wrrk Experience and Apprenticeship System.  The NTB has been the
main public agency providing work experience and apprenticeships for graduates
of secondary technical programs and post-secondary technical institutes. Its
On-the-Job Training Program (OJT) and the 'O'-Level Apprenticeships have been
valuable sources of work experience and training for youth in the past.
However, the economic recession has reduced the budgetary resources available
from the Government for these programs. In 1989 only 200 OJT places were made
available, as contrasted to about 600 in the mid-1970s. In 1989 the '0' Level
Apprentice program awarded 581 four-month apprenticeships to about 1,900



-7-
applicants from post-secondary technical and hotel training students. In
October 1990, the Government launched a new work experience program,
"Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilization" (AIM), which grew out of the
preparatory work for this project. The AIM program is administered by NTB,
with the goal of providing 10.000 work experiences a year of four months
duration for unemployed youth. NTB has recruited 20 placement officers to
arrange work experiences with private firms and public agencies throughout the
country. The cost of the work experience placements is being shared equally
by the private sector host agencies, government organizations and NTB. Under
the proposed project, YTEPP will contract NTB to provide 1,500 work experience
placements for youth in the YTEPP program (para. 2.16).
2.4       Labor Market Information System (LMIS).  TVETD and NTB have been
attempting to establish a complex and sophisticated Manpower Development
System which could provide reliable data and analyses on employment trends,
labor market demand, and manpower and training needs requifements. However,
this system is not yet in place. For this reason, the Government decided to
initiate the Labor Market Information System (LMIS) within the framework of
the proposed project, drawing upon the staff resources and experience of the
Ministry of Planning, the TVETD and NTB, and the Central Statistical Office
(CSO). The International Labor Organization (ILO) is providing technical
support to the staff of the LMIS from its regular program.  The LMIS has
already prepared its first bi-annual report on labor market conditions,
manpower training and employment prospects and is planning a major study on
employment in the informal sector.
B. Youth Training and Employment Programs
2.5       Public Sector Programs.  There are several non-formal education and
training programs sponsored by the Government to enhance employability and
promote the self-development of youth. The national youth camps and trade
centers are the oldest and most well-established residential programs. The
largest single program in budgetary terms has been the national youth camps
which were started by the Government in 1964 during a period of youth unrest.
The Government now runs six youth camps, five for boys and one for girls.
About 1,000 youth are trained annually. The camps are all residential and
operate on two-year cycles. The boys camps are for 17 to 21 years-old; the
girl's camp for 14 to 19 years-old. The boys camps offer vocational training
in nine skill areas and the girls camps in five. Boys receive craftsman's
assistant diplomas in their fields; girls get diplomas in their fields. The
camps also promote the ideas of community living and tolerance for cultural
diversity. The recruitment policies of the camps have favored families who
could not afford to pay for training their children or for youth who did not
attend secondary schools. Applicant/trainee ratios run between 10:1 and 7:1.
In the 1970s, 75 percent to 85 percent of youth camp graduates obtained
employment. Since 1985, that number has dropped dramatically. Government is
reviewing the future of its youth camps because of the relatively high cost of
residential training and the existence of other programs to help prepare youth
for employment and self-employment.



2.6       Private Sector Programs.  The most successful NGO working in this
field is Service Volunteered for All (SERVOL). Since 1970, SERVOL has
promoted self-development among disadvantaged youth who have poor attitudes
towards work. The majority have dropped out of school, have little or no
marketable skills, and suffer from low motivation. SERVOL has a four-step
program ior these youth consisting of motivational development, occupational
skills training, job placement and micro-entrepreneurial/ money management
training, and loans for micro-entrepreneurs. The SERVOL Adolescent Training
Program has grown rapidly in the last four years owing to its successful
partnership with Government and the grants it has received from foundations in
Europe and the United States. Government has contributed US$1.2 million to
SERVOL since 1987 and foundations grants have totalled US$2.3 million. SERVOL
also has mobilized US$300 thousand in fees and some US$1.1 million in land and
buildings from the communities where it works. The growth in financial
support has enabled SERVOL to accommodate some 3,600 adolescents for
attitudinal training and some 1,000 for skills training annually. SERVOL
concentrates its resources on helping the most seriously disadvantaged youth.
However, there is a strong demand for its services and it has great potential
for further growth, provided it is able to increase the number of its
community-based training centers and can cover instructors' salaries and other
recurrent costs. SERVOL has planned its expansion into some 20 new
communities over the next five years. YTEPP has drawn upon SERVOL's know-how
and experience in preparing the proposed project.
C. Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP)
2.7       Background.  The YTEPP is a temporary emergency program launched by
the Government to deal with the problem of youth unemployment during the
period of economic adjustment. It was designed by a Cabinet-appointed
committee in November of 1987 and first implemented in April 1988. The
program, now in its third annual cycle, provides education, training and
preparation for employment and self-employment to youth between the ages of
15-25 years. The program focuses on helping school leavers and unemployed
youth to improve their prospects of obtaining wage employment and self
employment through education ancd skill development. The YTEPP program as
originally conceived had five integrated training components aimed at helping
youth acquire proper attitudes towards work and motivation; increase their
functional literacy and numeracy skills; develop marketable job skills;
participate in a pre-employment work-experience; and gain practical business
training for self-employment (Annex 2).
2.8       Applicants and Fields of Interest.  YTEPP recruited 12,000
applicants in its first year (1988/89) and 14,800 in the second year
(1989/90). Some 10,600 applied for the current year. All youth who apply to
YTEPP and meet the age requirements (15 to 25 years) are accepted into the
program, although, about 25 percent drop out. Some 90Z of the applicants are
single, between the ages of 18 to 21 years and primarily of low and lower
middle-class origins; more females apply than males and a considerably higher
proportion of females (62 percent) completed the program in the second year.
Some 35 percent of trainees claim to have had some short-term work experience
before YTEPP. The fields of interest of the applicants in the first two years



- 9 -
of the program vary widely although fashion, electronic, mechanical,
construction and food processing courses include over 60 percent of
applications (Attachment B to Annex 2). YTEPP's training has been essentially
supply-driven; applicants are invited to indicate their training preferences
from a list of YTEPP course offerings. As a consequence, the program has
probably trained more people than are needed in some skill areas and needs to
become more market-oriented.
2.9       Implementation in the First Two Years.  In its first two years of
operation, YTEPP was only able to implement fully the job skills component of
the program. While YTEPP has attempted to implement the other components, it
has made little progress owing to a lack of professional staff and budget
resources. Thus, most trainees graduate from YTEPP having received job skills
training, but little or no other training or work experience. YTEPP has
attempted to follow the careers of graduates in the first year by conducting a
tracer study. The response rate was only about 30 percent, but of those who
responded, some 20 percent were in wage employment or had become self-
employed, 53 percent were undertaking further training or education, and 27
percent had not yet found employment. Under the proposed project YTEPP will
receive technical assistance to improve tracer studies on its trainees. The
results of these studies will be used by YTEPP in assessing program impact and
identifying needed adjustments in operations.
2.10      Program Budget and Costs.  The YTEPP is financed entirely from
Government budgetary resources. In 1988189, its operating budget was US$1.8
million and in 1989/90 it rose to US$2.1 million. In addition to its
operating budget, YTEPP has received support for its staff costs, office
space, and other administrative expenses from the Hinistry of Yoath Affairs
and other ministries. Administrative and program costs have remained fairly
constant over the two years, as YTEPP did not increase its staffing nor did it
take on many new administrative responsibilities. On the basis of the 1989
figures, the average cost of training per person has been in the range of
US$235 and the bulk of training resources have been spent on staff-tutors.
D. Issues in the YTEPP Program
2.11      The main issues facing Government in implementing the YTEPP Program
are the need for: (i) improved career guidance and personal counseling for
youth; (ii) increased training in attitudinal development and basic literacy
and numeracy; (iii) improved training and support for self-employment; (iv)
improved quality and relevance of job skill training; (v) overcoming
constraints on implementation of work experience and apprenticeships; (vi)
better labor market information to determine short-term training needs; and
(vii) improved management of YTEPP.
2.12      Career Guidance and Personal Counseling for Youth.  Youth who apply
to YTEPP need career guidance and personal counseling to help them make
decisions on a career and the type of training which would help them achieve
their career objectives. Likewise, YTEPP needs counselors to administer
diagnostic tests and interview applicants to learn about their background and
interests, determine if they have the basic literacy prerequisites and



- 10 -
motivation to succeed, and to advise them on the most suitable training
program within or outside YTEPP. Many of the applicants to the 1990/91
program received some counseling, but YTEPP did not have the budget or staff
resources to provide adequate guidance to all applicants. The recruitment and
training of counselors needs to be planned for and implemented prior to the
start of another training cycle.
2.13      Attitudinal Development and Literacy Training.  Many of the youth
who enter the YTEPP program lack self-motivation and discipline, and have low
levels of functional literacy and numeracy. Attitudes, behaviors and low
literacy levels are difficult to alter permanently in a short period of time.
YTEPP needs to substantially improve the effectiveness of this aspect of
training and extend the number of hours devoted to it. It must also improve
the qnelity of instruction through curriculum development, better teaching
materials and in-service training courses for tutors. A related issue
concerns how to deal with the expected 10 percent of YTEPP trainees with below
the age-8 in reading and numeracy levels. In past years, trainees have
largely rejected such training in a classroom setting. YTEPP is now adopting
a tutoring approach, using Assistant Trainers working with small groups of
illiterate students.
2.14      Entrepreneurship.  One of the major issues facing YTEPP is how to
stimulate more youth to pursue self-employment utilizing the skills and other
know-how and experience they acquired during their participation in the
program. Because very few new jobs will be created in the short term, most
YTEPP trainees will have to establish their own employment and income
generating opportunities. Given the strong bias in favor of wage employment
which exists in Trinidad and Tobago, YTEPP must promote and nurture self-
employment in the early stages of training. Its trainees also need to have
access to technical assistance and credit to develop and implement self-
employment schemes. Most financial intermediaries are not equipped to provide
technical or financial assistance for small enterprise development. Since
1989 the SBDC has been encouraged to link up a network of financial
institutions to disseminate information and conduct training in member
institutions to help service the needs of young entrepreneurs for technical
assistance and expanded credit.
2.15      Job Skills Training.  The job skills training provided by YTEPP
needs strengthening. It suffers from poor curriculum and course design,
inadequate teaching materials, and deficient training facilities. YTEPP's
course syllabi consist of poor and truncated copies of standard secondary
school craft courses; they also are of poor quality and lack relevance for the
group of school leavers serviced by YTEPP. Additionally, most of the TVETD-
MOE training centers used by YTEPP for a large portion of the skills training
have deficiencies in training equipment and audio-visual aids. While
practical productive type training activities are carried out, they need to be
expanded and upgraded in quality and marketability, thus increasing their
relevance and fungibility in the labor market.
2.16      Work Experience.  In YTEPP's original design, work experience was
viewed as helpful to youth in entering the labor market for the first time



- 1. -
since it gave them the opportunity to gain work experience and to be evaluated
by a prospective employer. However, due to capacity constraints and the
depressed state of the economy, only small numbers of graduates have been
placed in actual work experience positions in enterprises and agencies. To
compensate for this shortcoming, YTEPP devised an "intensive production"
program which tried to simulate, in the training center, the environment and
pressures of a producing enterprise. This program is not a suitable
substitute for work experience placements in enterprises and should be
discontinued. Instead, YTEPP should increase the work experience placements
offered to its trainees in both private companies and public enterprises. The
newly created AIM program, administered by NTB (para. 3.5), has the capacity
to provide large numbers of work experience placements under an adequate
financing arrangement.
2.17      Labor Market Information for Planning of Training.  YTEPP, MOE and
other agencies have been conducting education and vocational training courses
without taking into account the demand in the labor market for trained
manpower. This has resulted in an oversupply of manpower in some fields,
which has been accentuated due to the current economic recession. In other
fields there is an inadequate supply of labor, but YTEPP has not always been
aware of these training needs. Previous efforts to establish an LMIS have
been unsuccessful. However, there is renewed interest in establishing one to
provide the Government, YTEPP, and other organizations useful data and
analysis on employment and labor market conditions. The information provided
by the LMIS would be used by YTEPP in determining the training courses offered
on an annual basis.
2.18      Management and Administration.  YTEPP was created as a temporary
emergency program, but has been handicapped from the beginning by a shortage
of managerial and administrative staff. Operating as a gover.ament agency, it
has encountered bureaucratic and budgetary constraints in attempts to fill
most of the key full-time senior management positions and several
administrative positions. It lacked clearly defined policies and operating
procedures for personnel and financial management and periodic budgetary
problems have disrupted program planning and implementation. For these
reasons, the Government set up YTEPP as a non-profit company with its own
Board of Directors outside the normal administrative constraints of a
government agency. YTEPP has been further handicapped by the lack of an
agreement with MOE on the use of MOE facilities. In the absence of such an
agreement, school principals and YTEPP Center Directors have had numerous
misunderstandings which have disrupted the smooth administration of training
activities. YTEPP needs to decentralize more of its operations, with adequate
controls, to permit local administrators to innovate and respond to local
needs. YTEPP also lacks knowledge and experience in the international
procurement of goods and services to support its training programs. Finally,
the program needs to improve the monitoring and evaluation of its operations
so that it can assess the impact of its activities on an annual basis and
account to Government on its expenditures of funds.



- 12 -
E. Bank Assistance Stratega and Experience of Past Lending
2.19      The Bank has recently renewed its involvement in Trinidad and
Tobago. Previously, the Bank had made two loans in the education sector for
the development of primary, secondary anu vocational technical education. The
country was graduated from Bank lending in February 1984 because of its high
GNP per capita of US$6,450 (compared with the Bank's graduation level of
US$2,910) and its then favorable access to capital markets. Because of
serious economic difficulties, the Government returned to the Bank for
assistance and in January 1990 the Executive Directors approved a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL)(US$40 million equivalent) and Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL) (US$4 million equivalent). These operations were the first approved in
more than a decade. The Bank's assistance strategy calls for support of the
Government's medium-term program to revitalize the economy and create
conditions for sustainable economic growth. To this end it supports
operations which contribute to: establishing a more efficient and competitive
economy; reducing the size of the public sector in economic activity;
increasing public sector efficiency; and restructuring and diversifying the
sources of economic growth. Future Bank operations would focus on improving
education, agriculture, private sector development, infrastructure, and
environment through investments designed to achieve efficiency and
sustainability of economic growth and social development. The Bank is also
assisting the Government to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
programs to protect the poor and vulnerable groups. The TAL and the Youth
Training and Employment Project are part of this assistance program.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.20      Bank strategy in Trinidad and Tobago is to assist the Government in
implementing a sound economic reform program in order to restore sustainable
growth and development. As the long economic recession has exacted a high
social price, the Bank is also assisting the Government to improve efficiency
and effectiveness of programs to protect the poor and vulnerable groups. The
TAL supports the establishment of a Social Sectors Unit to analyze social
sector programs and make recommendations on improvements in targeting and
management efficiency. The Education and Training for Youth Employment
project has been identified as a high priority since unemployment is the most
critical social issue facing the Government and youth employment is
particularly acute. This project would be the first Bank operation in the
social sector since the renewal of Bank lending activities in the country in
1989. The Bank's previous loans made in the education sector have been
analyzed and lessons drawn from them in preparing the proposed operation. The
Bank's involvement in the proposed project will support the Government's
efforts to moderate the social consequences of adjustment, particularly on the
youth population, by providing training to enhance their employability and
self-employment prospects over the short- and medium-term.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Protect
3.1       In late 1989, during negotiations over the SAL, Government requested
the Bank for assistance in designing and implementing the YTEPP. A Bank
mission was fielded in December 1989 to complete project identification and
initiate project preparation. In January 1990, the Social Sectors Unit (SSU)
which was established under the TAL, took on responsibility for coordinating
project preparation with the Bank. Project preparation activities were
carried out from January to August and appraisal took place in October 1990.
Negotiations were held in March 1991.
B. Prolect Obiectives
3.2       In response to the explosive expansion of unemployment especially of
youth between the ages of 15-25 in the recent period of recession, the
Government created YTEPP as a temporary program, 1988-95, to better prepare,
motivate and assist youth to enter gainful employment. The proposed project
would assist the Government to improve the design, delivery, and effectiveness
of YTEPP by pursuing four key objectives:
(a) to improve the quality and relevance of education and training for
employment and self-employment provided by YTEPP through the
development of curriculum, training of instructors and provision of
equipment for training facilities and various training programs;
(b) to increase the opportunities offered to youth to acquire work
experience in private enterprises or public agencies which will
facilitate their first entry into the labor market;
(c) to promote self-employment initiatives of youth through self-
employment and small business training and the linking of a network
of credit institutions capable of providing loans for small
businesses; and
(d) to strengthen the managemert of the YTEPP Program to enhance the
effectiveness of its training activities and capacity to program,
monitor and evaluate training and post-training support operations
and their impact on youth employment.
C. Project Components
3.3       The objectives of the proposed project would be attained through
three components. The first component, 'Education and Training,* would assist
YTEPP in improving the design of its education and training courses,
upgrading the quality of its teaching staff, and providing supplementary
instructional equipment and materials; the second component, 'Post-training
Assistance," would support, with parallel co-financing by the private sector,
work experience placements for trainees in order to facilitate their first



- 14 -
entry into the labor market, and promote youth self-employment initiatives;
the third component, "Program Management Strengthening," would strengthen
management of YTEPP's training programs, establish project monitoring and
evaluation systems and support a labor market information system to assist
with planning of training. The project would support YTEPP activities on both
Trinidad and Tobago.
3.4       Education and Training Component (US$19.0 million).  This component
will a&sist in improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of YTEPP's career
enhancement, literacy training, and job skills training. It comprises
measures to: improve the overall design of courses, the development of
curriculum and teaching materials, and enhance the quality of instruction
through counselor, tutor and supervisor training and improved supervision.
In the specific training areas it would do the followingt
(a) Career Enhancement and Literacy Training (Annex 3.3). The project
would increase the importance and improve the quality of YTEPP's
career enhancement training, including basic literacy and numeracy.
It would provide training and support materials for 100 career
counselors to help test and counsel an expected 12,000 YTEPP
applicants per annum. The career enhancement training would be
expanded from 140 hours to 210 hours, with an induction phase of 90
hours and a second phase of 120 hours of classroom instruction. An
additional 50 hours of intensive tutoring in literacy and numeracy
skills would also be provided to about 1,200 trainees. Career
enhancement training would focus on developing productive attitudes
and social, financial and communication skills. It would provide a
skill complement to job training and self-employment training with
attention to occupational literacy and numeracy as well as serving
to interest and introduce trainees to self-employment and business
skills. The project would make qualitative improvements throughs
(i) provision of technical assistance for development, pre-testing
and production of materials for career counseling, career
enhancement training, and basic literacy and numeracy skill
development materials; (ii) financing of development, pre-testing
and production of manuals for 400 tutors, 80 assistant tutors and
10,000 trainees per cycle; provision of audio visual equipment for
all 44 YTEPP training centers; and (iii) doubling and upgrading of
tutor and supervisor pre-service and in-service training for 500
tutors, 25 supervisors, 50 Assistant Trainers, and 150 counselors.
(b) Job Skills Training (Annex 3.4). The project would help introduce
modular programs for flexible delivery, supplement or substitute
single-skill vocational subjects with cluster of skills programs to
increase trainee employability. To this end, it would provide 20
months of technical assistance to help develop curricula and course
syllabi on individual subjects and clusters in agriculture
production, food preparation and processing, building construction
and maintenance, automotive maintenance and repair, metal
fabrication and small appliance repair. The curriculum and
instructional guides would be prepared by YTEPP in time for the next



- 15 -
training cycle beginning in August 1991. The project would also
help design and implement short-term training courses on the new
curricula for its 800 course supervisors and tutors. The training
facilities used by YTEPP at 44 training centers would be selectively
provided with consumable materials and supplies totalling US$1.1
million, and new equipment totalling US$2.3 million to replace or
supplement equipment now in place. An indicative allocation of the
equipment needed at each center is included in Annex 3.4. YTEPP has
completed the preparation of a detailed master list of equipment. A
program for maintenance of training facilities and equipment would
be inaugurated at the project launch workshop to be held following
loan approval. At negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOE
would make available to YTEPP, Ltd. the school facilities and
equipment, including the new equipment financed out of the proceeds
of the loan, as shall be necessary, to carry out the training
activities under the project (para. 4.2a). The sub-component also
would provide 24 months of technical assistance to help YTEPP
introduce a system for certifying the skill competencies of trainees
to future employers equivalent to the one used by the NTB in its
skill certification program which is based on Certificates of
Acquired Competencies (CAC). YTEPP has already entered into an
agreement with MOE-NTB to ensure that the necessary CACs are
developed. The project would provide 12 months of specialist
assistance to NTB under its agreement with YTEPP to develop
additional certificates required for skills and skill clusters not
covered by existing NTB certificates. Finally, the loan would
finance staff and tutor salaries, portable equipment, and consumable
materials for YTEPP's community-based job skill training for 1,000
youth annually. Community-based training would be carried out in
remote areas where training centers are not available or suitable.
A provision of the Loan Agreement requires YTEPP to produce a report
by December 1, 1991 of objectives, detailed operational procedures,
costs and budget for community-based training to provide a basis for
further development of such projects.
3.5       Post-Training Assistance Component (US$3.3 million).  This component
would consist of two separate but interrelated sub-components of assistance
for youth who graduate from YTEPP. Both would involve the close collaboration
of the private sector: (a) work experience placements, and (b) training for
self-employment and technical assistance to support the Youth Enterprise
Support System (YESS) in increasing the number of business loans made to young
entrepreneurs.
(a) Work Experience Sub-component (Annex 3.5)
(i) Main Features. Under this sub-component, the project would
support annual work experience opportunities for about 15
percent of the youth admitted to YTEPP. The work experience
placements would usually be for 16 weeks and their aim would be
to expose trainees to the realities of the work place. The
work experiences will be awarded by YTEPP to selected trainees



- 16 -
on a competitive basis, with preference given to trainee
performance, motivation and potential. About 7,500 work
experience positions would be funded over the life of the
project. Work experiences would be arranged with both public
and private agencies, with priority (80 percent of placements)
for work experiences in the private sector. Work experiences
would be jointly financed in equal amounts by YTEPP and private
companies. The private sector's parallel contribution to the
work experience component is estimated at US$1.8 million over 5
years.
(ii) Role of the NTB. The component would be implemented for YTEPP
by the NTB. This arrangement will enable YTEPP to benefit from
NTB's experience of job placements for trainees. It also will
ensure full coordination with the recently started AIM program
being implemented by NTB. NTB officers will be responsible for
the identification of work experiences and placement of
trainees. YTEPP's Area Administrators would assist in
identifying and arranging work experience placements. NTB
would document all placements and follow-up activities on its
computerized tracking system and would provide YTEPP with
regular reports which would allow YTEPP's Post-Training
Assistance Coordinator to monitor and evaluate the imple-
mentation of the sub-component. The terms and conditions of
cooperation between YTEPP and NTB will be set forth in an
agreement signed by YTEPP and OE. Under the agreement, YTEPP
would finance 50 percent of all stipendE to YTEPP trainees and
80 percent of NTB's administrative and staffing costs. The
Government prepared and brought to negotiations the final draft
agreement between YTEPP and MOE which was reviewed and approved
by the Bank (para. 4.1a). As a condition of disbursement for
the work experience sub-component, Government will provide
evidence of a signed agreement between YTEPP and the MOE (para.
4.4a).
(b) Self-Employment Sub-Component (Annex 3.6)
(i) Self-Employment Training. The project would provide technical
assistance to help YTEPP redesign the curriculum of its self-
employment training course. The three main goals of the course
would be to help youths develop entrepreneurial traits;
acquire business management and operational skills to start up
and manage a small business; and, prepare business plans and
make loan applications to credit institutions for support of
their business schemes. The course would be offered twice a
year over four months, rather than once a year over some nine
months, which is current practice. Some 2,000 youth would be
trained annually under a student to tutor ratio of 16:1; the
target figure would be reviewed and adjusted during annual
program evaluations. The project would also help YTEPPs
(i) acquire teaching materials and instructional equipment;
p~



- 17 -
(ii) organize pre-and in-service training for some 50 tutors
and eight course supervisors; and (iii) hire 50 tutors,
8 course supervisors, and an Assistant to the National
Coordinator to promote support for the program from the private
sector. It would 180 help finance staff and tutor salaries
and related instructional expenses.
(ii) Youth Enterprise Support System (YESS). The project would
provide technical assistance to strengthen YESS, the newly
established network of credit institutions and business-related
organizations capable of providing credit to youth starting
their own businesses. The YESS has set a goal of making 1,800
loans to young entrepreneurs during the life of the project,
which would be priced at market rates. The YESS operates under
the aegis of the Small Business Development Company which also
serves as the YESS Secretariat. In addition to the SBDC, the
network is composed of the following financial institutiones
the Credit Union Bank, Credit Union League, FUNDAID, the
financial arm of SERVOL, commercial banks and credit unions.
There are 118 branches of commercial banks and 300 credit
unions which can potentially become involved in YESS. The
proposed technical assistance to YESS would assist its
Secretariat tot devise and implement efficient procedures for
reviewing and referring loan proposals to YESS credit
institutions; plan and implement a more vigorous marketing and
training program for loan officers; establish an information
system on loans and technical advisory services for young
entrepreneurs in starting up their businesses. The assistance
under the project would consist of two locally-recruited full-
time specialists, one to help the YESS Secretariat; the other
to work with FUNDAID in expediting the processing of loan
applications from YTEPP youth. It also would include technical
assistance fer planning and implementing training courses for
loan officers on working with youth, and for designing an
information system on loan recipients and technical advisory
services for young entrepreneurs. The technical assistance
provided to the YESS network would be channelled through SBDC
by an agr4ement between YTEPP and SBDC. The Government brought
to negotiations the final draft agreement between YTEPP and
SBDC on technical assistance to YESS and SBDC, which was
reviewed and approved by the Bank (para. 4.1b). The signing of
the agreement between YTEPP and SBDC is a condition of
disbursement for this sub-component (para. 4.4b).
3.        Program Hanagement Strengthening Component (US$9.6 million).  This
component would consist of strengthening YTEPP's management capacity for the
programming, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of its activities.
During project preparation the Government has taken important steps to improve
YTEPP's management. The Youth Training and Employment Partnership Limited, a
public company, was established by Government in September 1990 to implement
the proposed project. Cabinet also appointed YTEPP, Ltd.'s 12 member-Buard of



- is -
Directors and its chairman. The Board has met regularly since October 1990 to
help prepare the project and establish the administrative and financial
structures for the new YTEPP company. The YTEPP Board has approved a project
management structure and staffing plan developed during project preparation
(Annex 5.1). It has also established sub-committees to work with YTEPP staff
on various tasks. The project will provide full- and part-time program
management and technical staff to the new company in several key areas of
program activitys
(a) Program Planning and Implementation. This sub-component would
strengthen YTEPP's overall management of program planning and
implementation, including monitoring and evaluation. During project
preparation, the organization and management structure of YTEPP was
re-examined and modified to strengthen program planning and
implementation. One of the main changes was to create the post of
Director-Administration to assist the Executive Director in managing
all the financial and administrative aspects of the program.
Another was to convert eight key management positions (Area
Administrators) for planning and implementation at the field level
from part-time to full-time status. The loan would finance these
and other key senior management staff in program and administration.
These positions include: National Coordinators for Career
Enhancement Training, Job Skills Training and Post-Training Support.
Terms of reference for all these positions have been approved by the
Bank and YTEPP has made the appointments. The loan also would
finance the services of a qualified procurement agent to assist
YTEPP in carrying out all tendering and equipment delivery tasks for
which it is responsible under the project.
(b) Labor Market Information System (Annex 3.1). The project would
support the operations of a LMIS to collect, analyze, and
disseminate labor market information useful for the planning of
training activities as well as providing career guidance to youth in
YTEPP's career counseling and career enhancement training programs.
Thus, the courses offered at training centers around the country
would be determined in the light of labor market factors as well as
reflect the demands of trainees. The administrative procedures for
doing this would be worked out by YTEPP for the next training cycle.
The Bank has assisted the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization and
YTEPP in designing the system and in preparing its work plan. The
LMIS would provide information on labor market conditions and
prospects, trends, patterns and projects of labor supply and demand,
qualitative information on employment prospects from key sector
informants, and testimonials from former trainees on their
experiences in seeking work or establishing their own business.
The LMIS would produce and disseminate several reports per year.
The LMIS would be operated by a labor economist who would be
assisted by a senior advisor appointed by the Ministry of Planning.
Both positions have already been filled with financial assistance
from the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization. LMIS would have a
small technical advisory group to advise staff on the work plan.



- 19 -
The advisory group has already been formed and has held meetings.
The LMIS would be implemented by the Ministry of Planning, and
YTEPP, MOE and other agencies would draw upon its resources for data
as well as supply it. The Ministry of Planning would continue i~s
support of the LMIS; the loan would finance special projects
prepared by the LMIS undertaken for YTEPP. At negotiations, the
Government gave its assurances of continued financial support for
the staff and administrative costs of the LMIS for the project's
duration (para. 4.2b).
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 3.2). Under this sub-component
YTEPP would be provided technical assistance to strengthen its
monitoring and evaluation of program operations to: (i) collect,
process, and analyze data on applicants, trainees and graduates;
(ii) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the post-training
assistance sub-cumponents by NTB, YESS, and FUNDAID; (iii) conduct a
series of five tracer studies on YTEPP graduates, each group over a
three-year period; and, (iv) carry out special evaluation studies on
specific features of the program and their effectiveness. The sub-
component provides the assistance of a consulting firm to help YTEPP
with field testing of questionnaires, conducting interviews, data
processing and other tasks for the tracer studies and the infor-
mation data base on trainees. The tracer studies would enable YTEPP
management and Government officials and international agencies to
answer many questions about the program and to assess its impact on
the employment, income-earning, and education of trainees. Under
the new organization and staffing plan, YTEPP has created a
Department of Research and Evaluation with a small staff to oversee
the tracer studies and other evaluations of program impact. The
loan would also finance three staff positions in the Department of
Research and Evaluation and computer equipment.
3.7       Alternative Training Pathways.  The project will improve the
flexibility of the YTEPP training program and its ability to adapt to both the
diverse educational backgrounds and experience of trainees. This will be
achieved through alternative training pathways or options as illustrated in
Figure I. YTEPP applicants will undergo assessment and counseling to direct
them into the combination of career enhancement training, job skills training,
business training, work experience, or basic literacy and numeracy which best
suits their needs. Of these only attitudinal development would be compulsory
for all trainees. Assessment and career counseling and strengthening of YTEPP
management will permit the setting up of this routing system which in turn
will improve the overall efficiency of the program. YTEPP will introduce the
training pathways in its next program cycle beginning August 1991. Its
experience with the pathways will be closely monitored in the first two years
of the project and adaptations made, as required. At negotiations, the
Government gave its assurances that YTEPP will implement and closely monitor
the proposed training pathways in the next training cycle which begins in
August 1991 (para. 4.2c).



TRINADAD AND TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM LTD.
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATHWAYS FOR EMPLOYMENT AND SELF-EMPLOYMENT
n                                                                           1  OttwrEducation
t                    Edction & Training
I
a                    Care Enhancement                                            WVage
I                 [      ~J             -Empilojent
a     ~~A    ~     Educbn & ltahing                                            or S pOmNt
C         t                                                                    Employment
a                  AtlltudJnal Skiqs
e        t          F6hirwca SkiUs
9      u         Communicto Skills
rd
A                  I d
P _ C _    n                 (2Ohours)                                       
pi       u         ai          JobSkillsTralnig                  Post Training Support                             o
c                  D         Basc En  L    S|ill
a                  Training fromWAmoog 14            ark Expeorence Placement
I  ~~~~~r               "    ASg              nPublic or Private
n        v         Clusters oRelated               Enpre unEr AEpk nt-ip            Emplyment
t                  eJob Skdlis                                 I     izto
9    a                                         (A__________IM Program)
p                                                      _Youth houte
d        n
T 
e                                                       Post Training Support      SWage Employmen
I                                                        SelftEmployment_orSe_ _       Employment
Educaton and Tranin for Youth Emplovment Proiect
a_pu



- 21 -
D.   Proiect Costs and Financing
3.8       Proiect Costs.  Total project costs are estimated at US$31.9 million
equivalent. Base costs are calculated at US$27.7 million equivalent, and
contingencies at US$4.3 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component
would be US$4.0 million, or about 13 percent of total project costs.
Table 3: PROJECT COSTS SUMHARY
I      ZTotal
Project Components             Local       Foreign   Total  Foreign   Base
--------US$ Million--------  Exchange  Cost
A. Education and Training        13.8          2.8     16.6   17       60
B. Post-Training
Assistance                     2.7          0.1      2.8    2       10
C. Program Management
Strengthening                 7.5           0.8      8.3    9       30
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 24.0          3.6     27.7   13      100
Physical Contingencies                  -               -       -       -
Price Contingencies               3.9          0.4      4.3    8       15
TOTAL PROJECT COST /  a/                        A      ALI   aa     a
a/ Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Figures may not add up because of rounding.
3.9       Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs are expressed in January
1991 prices, and exclude taxes and duties vhich are negligible (Annexes 4.1 -
4.3). Costs of equipment, furniture, and supplies are based on agreed master
lists priced for similar imported or locally available items. Costs of local
and international consultants, and other services reflect local or
international rates, as applicable. Costs for management and tutor salaries
were based on YTEPP's rates which are comparable to prevailing rates in
Trinidad and Tobago for these kinds of services. Equipment costs were based
on lists priced for similar imported or locally available items. Price
contingencies (averaging 15 percent of base costs) were estimated on the basis
of expected annual international price increases of 3.6 percent for 1990-2000.
Local inflation is estimated to be 4.4 annually during the life of the
project.
3.10      Financing Plan.  The project which totals US$31.9 million equivalent
would be financed as follows: the amount of the proposed Bank loan would be
US$20.7 million equivalent, which would represent 65 percent of total
estimated costs. Government would financ,e the remaining US$11.2 million
equivalent or 35 percent. Private enterprises and public agencies
participating in the work experience sub-component would finance about US$1.8
million in additional stipends and training costs under the work experience



- 22 -
sub-component. The proposed loan would include 13 percent of foreign exchange
costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including five years of
grace, and would bear interest at the standard variable rate.
3.11      Recurrent Costs Implications.  The Yf3PP is an emergency program
which is intended to operate only as long as is needed to deal with the acute
youth unemployment situation in the country. On the basis of current
estimates of economic recovery, YTEPP should not be needed beyond 1996/97.
Government expenditures on YTEPP will not increase in real terms over the six-
year cycle as the proposed loan would finance a share of the expenditure
program, including design and management improvements incorporated under the
project. Since the project is a short-term emergency operation, there would
be no recurrent expenditures after project implementation is completed. After
the project is terminated, equipment and materials purchased would remain the
property of and be used in regular programs of the schools and institutions
pressed into service for YTEPP. On receipt of these items, institutions would
agree to finance their maintenance and repair costs. At negotiations,
Government confirmed its agreement to finance YTEPP from the national budget
for the duration of the project at levels agreed upon with the Bank (para.
4.2d).
E. Project Implementation and Management
3.12      Project Management.  The YTEPP has developed a project management
structure and staffing plan for project implementation (Annex 5.1). In view
of the temporary nature of YTEPP and the premium placed on rapid implemen-
tation, Government has established YTEPP, Ltd., a public company, to implement
the proposed project. Board members are predominantly from the private
sector, which will facilitate YTEPP's support and collaboration from the
private sector. As a condition of effectiveness, Government will enter into
an agreement with YTEPP, Ltd. for the transfer of the proceeds of the loan on
a grant basis, and for the commitment by YTEPP, Ltd. to the objectives of the
project and implementation of the activities thereof (para. 4.3a). The
Company's Board of Directors would have authority over project management and
provide overall policy guidance and supervision of project implementation.
The Board would convene regularly with the YTEPP Executive Director to define
the planning, implementation, and monitoring of project activities. The Board
of Directors of the company has designated the Executive Director as Project
Director. Project implementation would be carried out under his direction by
a full-time central management team consisting of: (a) a Director for
Administration and Technical Support Services; (b) three National
Coordinators, one each for job skills training, career enhancement, and work
experience/and post-training support; and (c) three Department Heads for
Finance and Administration, Research and Evaluation, and Public Relations and
Marketing. Its field team, technical and administrative, would consist of:
(a) 17 part-time Senior Course Supervisors and 146 part-time Course
Supervisors; and (b) 8 full-time Area Administrators and 44 part-time Center
M#.nagers. The terms of reference for these positions have been approved by
the Bank and YTEPP has already completed the recruitment and appointment of
this staff. At negotiations, Government agreed to consult the Bank before
making any senior staff appointment, and agreed to require YTEPP, Ltd. to



- 23 -
maintain at all times, throughout the execution of the project, organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2e).
3.13      Implementation Responsibilities and Procedures.  The YTEPP is
preparing an Administrative Manual which sets forth its policies and
procedures for personnel and financial administration of the project. The
final draft of the YTEPP Administrative Manual was brought to negotiations by
the Government and approved by the Bank (para. 4.1c). YTEPP also has signed a
formal agreement with MOE which governs the use of school facilities for YTEPP
training. The agreement spells out the role and responsibilities of school
authorities and YTEPP staff for managing facilities, the terms and conditions
for operations and maintenance of the facilities and equipment, including the
new equipment to be purchased under the project. YTEPP has established a
system for supervision and monitoring of project implementation acceptable to
the Bank. A covenant of the draft Loan Agreement requires YTEPP to develop
the reporting format for all field and central management staff by June 30,
1991. It also requires by that time that YTEPP complete the preparation of
more detailed qualitative and quantitative indicators for project monitoring
using the key indicators in Annex 5.3 as a point of departure. A project
launch workshop would be organized to identify project implementation issues
and potential bottlenecks and to plan strategies for overcoming them.
3.14      Implementation Schedule and Annual Reviews.  The project would be
implemented over a period of five and one half years, substantially shorter
than the average project in the sector--eight and a half years. However,
YTEPP is a short-term emergency program and the implementation of the project
should be carried out as rapidly as possible. The proposed schedule is
feasible, provided YTEPP employs strong managers to implement the project and
there are no external developments which hinder implementation. Project
duration coincides with the Government's strategies that YTEPP would be phased
out once the economic reforms begin to stimulate increased economic growth and
employment. Current estimates are that this will occur by 1995/96. The
detailed schedule for project start-up and implementation between November
1990 and December 1991 has been agreed (Annex 5.2). Annual reviews would be
conducted jointly by the Bank, Government, and YTEPP. At negotiations,
Government agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 1 of each
year, starting in 1991, annual reviews of project implementation for the past
year and schedules of project implementation for the following year, including
budgetary allocations, following criteria acceptable to the Bank. The first
annual progress review with the Government and YTEPP would be held by
December 1, 1991 and subsequent reviews would be conducted every year during
project execution (para. 4.2f).
F. Procurement
3.15      Procurement would be carried out with the assistance of a qualified
procurement agent financed under the project. The terms of reference for the
procurement agent appear in Annex 7.1. Government has confirmed to the Bank
its agreement to recruit a procurement agent and begun to invite proposals
from qualified agencies. The agent would be selected in accordance with the
World Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants. The procurement agent



24 -
would assist YTEPP in carrying out all tendering and equipment delivery tasks
for which it is responsible. Agency staff would liaise, as necessary, with
MOE, which is responsible for the training facllities and equipment located
in the public schools. As a condition of effectiveness, evidence will be
provided that contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, will have
been worked out with the procurement agent (para. 4.3b).
3.16      The procurement of equlpment and furniture, printed materials, and
supplies for YTEPP and its 44 training institutions would be carried out in
accordance with a step-by-step plan and schedule (Annex 7.2). About 65
percent of procurement of these items would be done through ICB or LIB, 25
percent through LCB, and about 10 percent by shopping. All above-noted items
(total estimated value US$4.1 million) would be grouped to the extent possible
in large packages and procured through ICB when valued above US$100,000
equivalent. Contracts for items valued between US$20,000 equlvalent and
US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, and their aggregate amount would
not exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. Items which cannot be grouped in
packages of US$20,000 equivalent or more would be procured through
local/international shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, and up to the
aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent. Consultants for studies and
technical assistance would be selected and retained in accordance with Bank
guldelines. Prior Bank review would be required for all contracts for goods
to be awarded under ICB procedures and for all contracts awarded through LCB
procedures exceeding US$50,000 in value. Other contracts for goods would be
subject to random ex-post review by the Bank. The procurement arrangements
are summarized in Table 4.



- 25 -
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ million)
Procurement Method           Total
Proiect Element                  ICB/LIB   LCB    Other   N.A.        Cost
Equipment & Furniture               3.0     0.3      0.1     -        3.4
(3.0)   (0.3)   (0.1)             (3.4)
Materials & Supplies                1.1     1.2      0.4      -       2.7
(1.1)   (1.2)   (0.4)             (2.7)
Tutor Training                     -        -        -       1.0      1.0
(1.0)   (1.0)
Staff and Tutor Salaries           -        -        -      14.5    14.5
(7.7)   (7.7)
Stipends                           -        -        -       1.6      1.6
(1.6)   (1.6)
Administration                      -       -        -       4.4      4.4
S-)     (-)
Supervision                        -        -        -       3.3      3.3
(3.3)   (3.3)
Technical Assistance               -        -        1.0     -        1.0
(1.0)            (1.0)
TOTAL                         4.1      1.5     1.5    24.8    31.9
(4.1)   (1.5)   (1.5)  (13.6)  (20.7)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
G. Disbursements
3.17         The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed during a six-
year period at the following ratest
Bank FY             1991    1992        1993     1994       1995      1996
-_____-------- (USS million) ------------------
Annual               2.1      3.3        4.2       4.2       4.2       2.7
Cumulative           2.1      5.4        9.6     13.8       18.0      20.7



- 26 -
Disbursements of the loan would be as follows: 100 percent of costs of
equipment, furniture, materials and supplies; 100 percent of costs of
technical assistance; 100 percent of tutor training, student stipends and
supervision, and up to US$7.7 million of staff and tutor salaries, amounting
to approximately 50 percent of staff and tutor costs. Annual disbursements
for staff and tutor salaries would not exceed US$1.6 million annually up to
US$7.7 million. Annex 6.1 presents the allocation of loan proceeds; Annex 6.2
contains the estimated schedule of disbursements. Disbursements on contracts
for goods and services exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be made against
normal documentation. Disbursements for contracts at or below that level
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. These would be held
by YTEPP, Ltd. and made available for examination by Bank supervision
missions.
H. Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
3.18      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding US$2.1 million would be provided for expenditures, incurred as of
November 1990 and before loan signing, on technical assistance, staff and
tutor salaries, stipends, equipment, materials and supplies.
3.19      Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish a special account in the Central Bank of Trinidad
and Tobago with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million which represents an
estimated four months of applicable Bank-financed expenditures. Upon loan
effectiveness, the World Bank would make the initial deposit to the Special
Account in this amount. The Special Account would be replenished as
appropriate in accordance with established Bank guidelines. Withdrawal
applications would be supported by appropriate documentation.
3.20      Supervision.  Bank supervision would concentrate on in-depth reviews
of sub-program implementation, trainee intake, composition, drop-outs, and the
changing conditions in the overall employment situation to identify emerging
needs for adjustments to the program. The bases for Bank supervision would be
semi-annual progress reports and annual reviews (para. 3.14). The Government
would submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on project implementation and
expenditures, special reports prior to annual reviews, and a final report on
implementation experience and project outcome (Project Completion Report)
within six months of the Closing Date of the proposed project. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government will comply with these
requirements (para. 4.2g).
3.21      Evaluation.  The implementation of the proposed project, and the
extent to which it is achieving its objectives, would be evaluated annually
and upon its completion. At the end of three years from the effective date,
the Government, YTEPP and the Bank would undertake a review to determine
whether the training provided by the project was achieving satisfactory
results in terms of absorption of trainees into the labor market or self-
employment. The review would apply two criteria in evaluating the success of
the project:



- 27 -
(a) that after three years from the effective date of the loan, at least
one and a half times as many graduates from YTEPP compared to a
control group of non-graduates from YTEPP with similar
characteristics to YTEPF trainees, would have found employment or
self-employment; or
(b) that after three years from the effective date of the loan,
graduates from YTEPP should receive earnings 20 percent greater than
the control group of non-graduates from YTEPP with similar
characteristics to YTEPP trainees. This measure would reflect the
effectiveness of the program in contributing to both the increased
success of YTEPP trainees in finding employment and/or in obtaining
higher wages. The earnings of those in self-employment wi'l be
calculated separately from those in wage work. In view of the short
time frame for assessing the gains of the program, the assessment
will also identify indicators suggestive of higher future earnings
(i.e. continuing education, advancement in jobs and growth in
earnings through self-employment).
A mid-term review of the project would look at the future role of YTEPP. If
the program would need to continue until the end of the decade, the review
would estimate the additional investment requirements and make recommendations
on the Bank's future role, if any. At negotiations the Government agreed that
after three years from the effective date of the loan, if YTEPP is unable to
achieve satisfactory results in terms of absorption of its trainees into the
labor market or self employment, as per the indicators noted above, the Bank
would be entitled to suspend disbursements (para. 4.2h).
3.22      Auditing Procedures.  The Youth Training and Employment Partnership
Program, Ltd. would keep separate accounts for project expenditures in
accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. All project
accounts, the Special Account and all disbursements against SOEs would be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. The Government would submit
to the Bank the audit reports of expenditure within four months of the closure
of each fiscal year. The audit reports will certify that funds were used for
the purposes for which they were provided.
I. Benefits and Risks
3.23      Benefits.  The project would help moderate the social consequences
of adjustment by providing opportunities for as many as 10,000 youth annually
over five years to acquire remedial education and marketable skills for
employment or self-employment. Of these, some 1,500 youth each year would
acquire in addition, work experience in private enterprises and public sector
agencies in preparation for wage and self-employment. Finally, the project
would also foster self-employment by providing practical business training to
some 2,000 youth annually, and by strengthening a network of credit
institutions which aims to make 1,800 loans to youth for microenterprise
development during the life of the project.



- 28 -
3.24      Risks.  There are two major risks.  The first risk relates to the
possible failure of the overall medium-term reform program to generate
sufficient growth in employment opportunLties to absorb many of the youth from
the YTEPP program. This risk is addressed by the Bank's SAL currently under
implementation. The second is the current shortcomings of YTEPP's admin-
istrative machinery and that of other government agencies to manage the
diverse activities of the project in a timely and efficient manner. To
counter this risk, the Government has already set up YTEPP as a company
outside the normal administrative constraints of a government agency. The
proposed management strengthening component of the project would also counter
this risk. Frequent and intense Bank supervision is planned to guide YTEPP in
implementing the project and in complying with Bank procedures and
requirements. Finally, annual implementation reviews of the project with the
Bank would enable YTEPP to make needed adjustments in its management and
intake of trainees, the design of training courses and other support, in light
of supervision.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1       The Government prepared and brought to negotiations the following,
which were reviewed and approved by the Bank:
(a) the final draft agreement between YTEPP and MOE on work experience
placements for YTEPP trainees (para. 3.5);
(b) the final draft agreement between YTEPP and SBDC on technical
assistance to YESS and SBDC (para. 3.5); and
'c) the final drait of the YTEPP Administrative Manual
(para. 3.13).
4.2       At negotiations the Governments
(a) confirmed that MOE would make available to YTEPP, Ltd. the school
facilities and equipment, including the new equipment financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, as shall be necessary, to carry out the
training activities under the project (para. 3.4);
(b) gave its assurance of continued financial support for the staff
and administrative costs of the LMIS for the project's duration
(para. 3.6);
(c) gave its assurance that YTEPP will implement and closely monitor the
proposed training pathways in the next training cycle which begins
in August 1991 (para. 3.7);
(d) confirmed its agreement to finance YTEPP on a firm foundation from
the national budget for the duration of the project at levels agreed
upon with the Bank (para. 3.11);



- 29 -
(e) agreed to consult the Bank before making any senior staff
appointment, and agreed to require YTEPP, Ltd. to maintain at all
times, throughout the ezecution of the project, an organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.12):
(f) agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 1 of each
year, starting in 1991, annual reviews of project implementation for
the past year and schedules of project implementation for the
following year, including budgetary allocations, following criteria
acceptable to the Bank. The first annual progress review with the
Government and YTEPP would be held by December 1, 1991 and
subsequent reviews would be conducted every year during project
execution (para. 3.14)s
(g) agreed to submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on project
implementation and expenditures, special reports prior to annual
reviews, and a final report on implementation experience and project
outcome (Project Completion Report) within six months of the Closing
Date of the proposed project (para. 3.20); and
(h) agreed, in line with criteria spelled out in para. 3.21, that after
three full years following the effectiveness date of the loan,
if YTEPP is unable to achieve satisfactory results in terms of
absorption of its trainees into the labor market or self-
employment, that the Bank would be entitled to suspend
disbursements.
4.3       As conditions of effectiveness, Government will provide evidence
thatt
(a) an agreement has been entered into with YTEPP, Ltd. for the transfer
of the proceeds of the loan on a grant basis; and for the commitment
by YTEPP, Ltd. to the objectives of the project and implementation
of the activities thereof (para. 3.12); and
(b) contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been worked
out with the procurement agent (para. 3.15).
4.4       As conditions of disbursement, the Government wills
(a) for the work experience sub-component, provide evidence of a
satisfactory signed agreement between YTEPP and the MOE; and
(b) for the self-employment sub-component, provide evidence of a
satisfactory signed agreement between YTEPP and the SBDC.
Recommendation
4.5       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$20.7 million equivalent to



- 30 -
the Government of Trinidad and Tobago, repayable in 15 years, including a
five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 31 -
ANX I
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBACO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOWTH EMPLOYMEN, PROJECT
Labor Force and Employmnt. 10M2-S0
Proe.     Pr*l.
March     Aug.
1962       19938      1984          1106         1966        1933      199 g/
(Thousand. of persons)
PeculatIon p/                   1,12S.6    1.149.3    1.l18.6       1.101.2       1.190.8     1.235.0    1.255.0 k/
Labor Force                       445.0      452.8       478.7        473.9         472.0       477.0       477.4
98_.~                             v "        my-I        Tr".i8n  1 I                  "i!  aa ur.o    aI"
Female                            147.3      145.7       159.5        165.0         158.4       161.8       169.5
Es I oYd                          402.7      401.6       411.2        397.6        $37.9        372.1       870.0
Fz1-                   2Rn[3      279.1 2i0.T 1117                      201.         24.7F      24.3.
F ele,                            127.3      123.4       138.6        130.0         126.9       120.3       126.7
UnswDloyed                         42.3       51.2        67.5         76.3          84.1                   104.9  107.4
-S kTng work                       22.-       W2.7           n.       _4?-.1         SET1       -74         -72.  4
Oth-r                              20.3       16.9        25.0         29.3          82.0        89.0        34.0
(Percent of total labor fore)
UJn = loZ d                         9.5       11.3        14.1         16.1          17.6        22.1        22.5
S  king work                                   7T -Ci                                            UM 1..4
Other                               4.6        4.2         5.2          6.2           0.3         3.3         7.1
Emp Ioloed by economic sector
(Thousands of persons)
Prov.
March
1967
Agriculture and fishing            32.7       33.9        38.6         42.7          44.2        48.9        48.6
Mining, quarrying end
manufacturing                    72.6       6S.1       86.2          59.2         56.7         60.8        66.1 I
Construction Zl ncluding
electricity, gas, and water)    36.5         65.7       32.3         73.8          61.4        53.6        49.8
Commerce                           07.3       92.9        93.1         96.2          96.8        36.6        66.2 g/
Transport and comunicstione       23.3       32.2       $3.9          27.9          27.3   -    27.2        25.1
Other services                     93.5       69.7        96.4        100.9         102.5       103.4       103.2
(P-re nte. of e  looed)
Agriculture and fishing             3.1         8.4        9.8         10.7          11.4       1.2         13.1
Mining, quarrying and
manufacturing                    13.1        16.9       16.3         14.6          14.4        13.0        14.9
Construction (Including
oloctricity, gas and water)      21.6       2S.1        19.3         13.5          15.1        14.5        13.4
Commerce                           21.3       21.6        28.7         23.3          25.0        23.4        23.0
Transport and comwnications         7.1         *.0        3.2          7.0           7.0         7.4         6.3
Other services                     23.3       22.3        28.7         25.2          20.4        27.9        27.9
r/ Mid-yer etimates
M Mlosion estiate
e/ Figures for July-Sept. 1909
Includes: (1) petroleum A gas, (ii) other mining A quarrying, (iii) other * h q
!/ Calculated as residual of Employed - E total all other categories
Source: Central Statistical Office



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Background on the YTEPP
(As of August 1990)
Origins of the YTEPP
1.    The Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP) was
conceived in 1987 by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago as a temporary
emergency program with nationwide coverage. A Cabinet-appointed committee
developed the design of the program after a review of other existing programs
and experience. YTEPP was to provide a direct response to the increasing
problems of youth unemployment and unemployability, which had been aggravated
by the long recession. The target group was defined as unemployed male and
female youth between the ages of 15-25. YTEPP was expected to have an intake
of about 20,000 youth per year equivalent to the number of graduates each year
from the secondary school system.
2.    The Program has now completed two years of operation and is entering its
third annual cycle in August 1990.
Obiectives of the YTEPP
3.    The objective of YTEPP is to train and prepare youth for both wage
employment and self-employment. It was to be a comprehensive and integrated
program which would directly address the five key constraints to salaried
employment or self-employment of youth in the country. These main barriers
were defined as; lack of a proper work ethic or attitude; poor basic education
which often resulted in low literacy and numeracy skills; lack of marketable
skills; absence of work experience; and the lack of technical and financial
support for self-employment.
Partnership Strategy
4.    The YTEPP was to be a joint undertaking between several groups: youth,
government, private employers and the people of the comnunity. This approach
of *partnership" is viewed by YTEPP as serving to: (i) help acquire the needed
human, financial and technical resources as well as raw materials to
supplement government resources; (ii) obtain post-training support for those
trainees who are interested in setting up own enterprises; (iii) acquire
access to work experience for trainees desiring wage-employment; and (iv) give
other government departments, institutions, private industry and local
communities an opportunity to help in a shared national problem which affects
everyone.
Main Training Components
S.    YTEPP was originally conceived as comprising of five major training
components, each having been designed in direct response to the five barriers



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
or constraints confronting youth. However, implementation of the program has
been phased, with the bulk of the attention and resources during the first two
years allocated to the skills training component.
(a) Motivational or Attitudinal Training is in theory compulsory for all
trainees. The aim is to develop positive attitudes and behavior
patterns which would assist them in either self-employment or wage-
employment. These includes self-reliance, a sense of responsibility,
entrepreneurship, high self-esteem and creativity. Due to lack of
qualified tutors and a full-time national coordinator YTEPP has not been
able to systematically imploment this component as planned during the
first two cycles although a start has been made through the training of
40 facilitators with the assistance of SERVOL. Curriculum development
is still needed. Nor does the program adequately address post-training
maintenance of new attitudes.
(b) Job Skills Training is designed to provide young men and women with
skills at the assistant craftsman level which would help them in the
labor market or could provide them with self-employment. During the
first two cycles, some 220 contact hours of skill-training were given
per YTEPP trainee, including hands-on experience. YTEPP has offered a
fairly wide range of courses in the production and services areas, but
did not have regular access to manpower and labor market surveys to
avoid training youth in disciplines where skills are in excess of
demand. Care.er counselling and up-front career-awareness information
also needs strengthening in order to guide trainees' choices: many of
the trainees in the first two cycles, and especially females, have opted
for skills-training in traditional areas with comparatively low
employment, income potential, and limited potential for expansion.
(c) Basic Education or Vocational Enhancement as it is called, was
originally designed to provide training at two levels: literacy and
post-literacy. The literacy and numeracy training was for those
trainees who did not have sufficient skills to cope with the YTEPP
training program or with subsequent employment. About 1,600
participants were in this category in the first cycle. All trainees
were supposedly given some kind of post-literacy communication, simple
accounting and other Olife skills" skills in the second cycle. The
value of the literacy and post-literacy training was weakened by the
absence of a national coordinator, decreasing trainee attendance, weak
student motivation and the mix of skill levels in classes.
(d) A Work Experience Proiect was launched in October-November 1989, to
assist successful graduates of the first cycle who were interested in
wage employment. Training was to consist of 100 classroom/workshop
hours, followed by four months of actual work experience. Learning
during the first part was to cover: career awareness and opportunities,
marketing and job-search skills and an intensive productions phase. In
the first two years of work experience, 2,500 trainees were targeted for
work experience but very few were arranged in enterprises. In practice
the work experience has merely been an extension of vocational training
for most trainees. While a few have had the opportunity to work in



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
enterprises, the classroom has replaced work experience for most
participants because the program was unable to identify sufficient
outside work experience opportunities.
(e) Post-training Support is intended to help those who are interested in
self-employment through providing them with additional technical and
financial assistance. Or4ginally this component was intended to serve
only YTEPP graduates, but was later opened up to other qualified youths,
ages 15 to 25, who wish to set-up their own businesses. Training was
intended to cover 100 contact hours over a period of 33 weeks and was to
have four phases: (i) preparation of feasibility studies of trainee
projects; (ii) small-business training; (iii) an internship of 3 months
in an enterprise having the same activity as planned by the trainee; and
(iv) assistance to trainees in locating sources of start-up capital for
their projects. Again YTEPP has encountered difficulties in
implementing the component.
Administrative and Staffing Arrangements
6.    The YTEPP was placed under the responsibility of an Inter-Ministerial
Committee, headed by the Minister of Youth, Sport, Culture and Creative Arts.
Other members are the Ministers of Education, Social Development and Family
Services, and of Labor. A cabinet-appointed Implementation Committee,
representing both Government and the private sector, has been in charge of
program implementation, but the Committee has not met for over a year.
7.    The YTEPP administrative structure consists of a central management
staff and a field staff. The program is managed at the center by a Director
and five National Coordinators, one for each major program component, and
several officers for finance and administration.   Most of the Nlational
Coordinator positions have remained vacant because of budgetary constraints.
YTEPP also has a team of Project Coordinators for job training who provide
technical support and supervise training in their respective fields. YTEPP
has an extensive field staff of 8 Administrative Coordinators and 44 Center
Directors. With the exception of the central management staff, all staff are
part-time. Some 800 part-time tutors, mainly from secondary schools, are
annually mobilized for YTEPP training courses.
Program Implementation, 1988-90
Center-based Training
8.    The YTEPP has developed two types of operationss center-based and
community-based. During the first two years, the large majority of the YTEPP
activities took place in centers located mainly in secondary schools in eight
administrative areas of the countryt Port-of-Spain and environs, Caroni,
Eastern Counties, Tacarigua/Arima, St. Ann's, St. Patrick, Victoria and
Tobago. In 1988, the first year of the program, already 38 centers were in
operation. The number of centers increased to 44 in 1989 (Attachment A).



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Community-based Training
9.    Community-based training is the second and rapidly expanding type of
training program under YTEPP. In January 1989, there was only one community-
based program operating. By the end of September 1989, there were a total of
33 being planned and implemented. Community-based training is intended to:
(i) serve the more outlying and rural communities; (ii) train those youths who
cannot afford to forego work and earning while studying; (iii) meet the skill
needs of communities which are not addressed in the center-based training
program; (iv) encourage the formation of cooperatives and partnerships; and
(v) both involve the local community more in decision-making and
implementation, and give it greater access to benefits.
The TPM Training Model
10. Duration of the Job Skills training program has been for nine months,
from August to March/April. Skill training follows a Training for Production
for Marketing (TPM) model. In this model, training is directly related to
production, production to marketing and marketing determines training. Self-
motivation plays a critical role in this model. Under YTEPP the TPM model
developed in three stages: Stage 1, "Trainingw, began in July/August and
consisted of a four-week full-time module followed by a 12-week evening
program. Stage 2, 'Production", began in September and extended over a seven-
week petlod, part-time, and included a hands-on work experience at Christmas
and Carnival. In Stage 3, "Marketing", which began in mid-February, there was
a two-week full-time phase, ending with a display and sale of goods and
services at the various centers around Easter.
Participants
11.   The original YTEPP goal was to recruit 20,000 applicants annually.
Consequently, the program implemented a mass promotion and advertising
campaign in the first year. Nevertheless, the number of applicants fell below
target both in 1988 and 1989, in spite of YTEPP accepting all applicants
unless they did not meet the age requirements. In August 1988, there were a
total of 12,174 participants in the program. The number rose to 14,538 by the
same time in 1989, with the large majority of operating centers now serving
more students.
12. YTEPP participants were aged 15-25, and 90 percent were single. Females
outnumbered males among applicants with 51 percent females to 49 percent males
in the first year, increasing to 58 percent to 42 percent by the second YTEPP
cycle. Most applicants (68 percent in 1989) had some academic background, but
nearly half of these have three or less years of secondary schooling. In
1988-90 only 12 percent had done craft courses at school. Over two-thirds of
the applicants have never worked.
13. Overall, the number of participants is reduced by about 25 to 30 percent
following enrollment, with a considerable number dropping out in September.
In the first year of YTEPP operation around 8,000, or about 65 percent of
registrants graduated from the vocational skills training program. The number
of graduates was increased to some 9,100 in 1989/90.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
Courses Offered and Selected
14.   In the 1988 cycle, YTEPP offered 609 courses throughout its various
training centers. In 1989, the number was increased to 701 courses. The
types of job skills training offered were based on an assessment of youth
training preference conducted in the first year. On this basis YTEPP selected
13 skill areas in which to train participants for either wage-employment or
self-employment. These skills areas were: Agriculture, Applied Arts, Craft,
Business Studies, Electronics and Electricity Related, Construction, Fashion
and Fabric and Beauty Culture, Mechanics, Food Preparation, Services, Tourism
and the Performing Arts. Family Services, which covered child-care services,
baby-sitting services and care for the aged, was added in 1989.
15.   The enrollment in each of these skills areas can be viewed as
representing trainee interests, as little career counselling was given. The
most popular choices were Fashion and Fabric and Beauty Culture, in which 25
percent of students were enrolled in the first and second years, followed by
Electronics and Electricity-Related skills, with an enrollment of 15 percent
and 14 percent in the first two years. The least popular courses were
Performing Arts, Agriculture and Applied Arts (Attachment B).
16.   In general, YTEPP trainees and especially women, tended to choose the
more traditional areas where incomes are also often lowest. Females were
predominant in Food Preparation (92 percent), Fashion and Fabric and Beauty
Culture (88 percent), Craft (87 percent) as well in Tourism (80 percent).
They are leact well represented in Mechanical (7 percent), Electronics and
Electricity Related (8 percent), Construction (11 percent) and Agriculture (31
percent).
17.   The conmunity-based projects provided trainees with skills in such areas
ass repair and maintenance of agri-machinery, plumbing, electrical repairs,
vegetable farming, construction, straightening and painting, welding, food
processing, baking, tailoring, fabric design, fashion accessories, calabash
craft and fruit preservation, as well as others. There is considerable
variation in the extent to which these skills courses would result in
generating employment benefits for the host community or provide them with
cheaper goods or needed services closer at hand.
Applied Research and Monitorins and Evaluation
18.   In the first two years YTEPP has not had regular access to reliable
information on employment and self-employment opportunities in local labor
markets in order to plan vocational training and for guidance of enrollees.
As a result, the program is unable to make informed judgements as to when to
reduce or discontinue the courses offered in certain fields or when to expand
or offer new courses. Also, YTEPP has not yet fully implemented a good
monitoring and evaluation system to assess the impact of various components of
the program on trainees and of the program as a whole on employment of
graduates.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
19.   However, YTEPP has conducted a tracer study which followed up 3,531
graduates three months after the end of the first training cycle. It found
that 409 (11.6 percent) were in wage-employment and 312 (8.8 percent) had
become self-employed. An additional 1,137 (32.2 percent) were undertaking
further training or education, and 394 (11.2 percent) had enrolled in YTEPP's
Post-Training Support and Work Experience programs. A total of 960 graduates
(27.2 percent) were not in further training and had not yet found employment.
Budget and Financial Arraniements
20.   The budget of the first operational year of YTEPP was about TT$ 7.8
million or US$1.8 million. During the second operational year it rose to
about TT$ 8.9 million or US$2.1 million. Budgetary problems have continued to
hamper YTEPP implementation during the first two years. Funding for YTEPP has
been somewhat ad hoc, derived from the existing allocations of related
departments and agencies, supplemented by any additional amounts allocated by
Parliament.  This ad hoc arrangement has created administrative difficulties
which were further aggravated by the fact that YTEPP program appropriations
are sourced from the Development Program component of the Annual Budget, which
tends to be insecure in terms of amount and flow of funds during times of
financial stringency. Finally, there is no single place in the Government's
framework where the YTEPP program and administrative secretariat costs are
presented, the former being under the Ministry of Youth in the Development
Program, while the latter are scattered throughout the recurrent budget
appropriations of several other ministries. This unwieldy and difficult
arrangement has complicated YTEPP operations and weakened accountability.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
LIST OF CENTERS, 1911-39
(With Number *f Course and Pertieipanto at Registration at Each Center)
Augiet 19                        August 196M
Centers                Iumber of   Number Of       Numbr of    Number of Participants
Course.    Participants   Courses       Maloe        Fems I*    Total
Port-of-S tIn & Environs:
Succen/Lvontille Composite              11        130             11            41         149     190
Mucurapo Sr. Cempr o  ntive               16        2C0             14           16O         139     299
Diego Martin Junior Secondary              6        106              9             79         89     165
Dlego Martin Gov't Secondary               -          -              5            44          S7     101
Belmont Junior Secondary                  12        224             14            57         169     246
St. Jaess  Government Secondary            a         3               6             69         63     122
Goodwill Industrie                         -          -6                           go         37      96
Total                           4           26            s9            496         728   1,221
Caronit
Chaguanas Sr. Co.prehensivo               21        41t             21           19          276     470
Corapichaim  Jr. Secondary                17        *4               9            eS          99     1S4
Carapichatim  Sr. Comrehensolv           1i         272             22            173        214     367
Couva Jr. Secoendry                       21        665             10            as          61     144
Tabaqut. Cerpoelto School                 17       1us              17           1i6         126     266
Tota                            94       1,700             S1           074         777   1,451
Eastern Counties:
North Eastern Colleg                      29        633             27            272        413     605
Sangre Grande Jr. Secondary               21        437             20            141        239     4J0
Rio Claro Jr. Secondary                   s0        6l             29            235        274     509
Msyare Civic Center                       10        J04             12            so         121     169
Toco Compotit                             12        12S              2            12          17      to
Totll 102                                2,170             90           726       1,114   1,942
Tcarlerus/Arlm:
Arias Sr. Comprehensive                   30        *9l             34           428         46      691
Arias Government Secondary                12        20              18             4         167     221
Five Rivers Jr. Secondary                 10        46              1i           154         199     U5S
El Dorado Sr. Ceprohensive                29        Su             2t            224         296     s22
iotdi                                    I,?"              91           *sS5    -1-182 -    -



- 39 -
ANNEXX
Attachment A
Pogo 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
LIST OF CENTERS, 19tJ-89 (cont'd)
(With Number of Cours. and Participants at Rogistratlon at tEac Center)
August 1Ms6    _                 Auust 19i9
Conters                Number of  Number          Number of    Number of Participants
Ceuroe      Portielpant.   Courso       Maloe        Fmale   Total
St. Ann's:
Malick Sr. Comprehensive                  6           100             1J          63        16      231
San Juan Sr. Comprehensive               1           260              12         10        167     275
San Juan Government                       4            73              -           -          -       -
Aranguez Jr. Secondary                    a           100              4           -         so      as
Barataria Sr. Comprehensive              10           148             21         225        416     641
Curepo Jun. Sec.                          -            -               9         101        126     227
Total                           41          671             59         497        966   1,462
St. Patrick:
Siparti Sr. Comprohenoive                16          463              10         143        199     342
Fyzabud Composite                         9          173              16         163        210     373
Point Fortin Sr. Comprehonsive           19          421              19         196        374     169
Palo Seco Ov-t. School                   16           250             10         56         136     191
Penal Jr. Secondary                      17           348             20         216        230     496
Cedroo Com_unity Center                   -            -              12          74        125     199
Vessigny Gov't Sec.                                                   18          6         166     254
Total                           76        1,675            108         015      1,509   2,424
Victoria
Ple*aantvillo Sr. Comprehensive          29           504             3O         292        296     587
Princess Town Sr. Comprehensive          26          490              21         271        296     6o7
Morabella Sr. Comprehensive              23          457              26         264        307     571
Williamoville Jr. Secondary              21           377             28         219        230     449
San Fornando Sr. Comprehensive            9           170             16         123        203     326
Union Claxton Bay Sr. Comprehensive      10           203             20         232        287     519
Darrackpore Sr. Comprehenlve             22          49J              2J         255        218     473
Moruga Compolte                          13          238              12          76        10     136
Coasprillo Comprehensive                  -            -              17         123        13O     265
Total                          152        3,076            190       1,62        2,074   3,916
Tobago:
Signal Hill Sr. Comprehensive             6           170             15         140        166    a30
Roxborough Comp.                                       -               7          27        100     136
Total                            6          170             22          167       275      442
Grand Total                    609       12.174            710       8.095      86443  145368



40 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment B
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
YOUTH TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMME
JOB SKILLS TPAINING
Distribution of Applicants by Courses
(1988 - 1989)
1988                         1989
Nbr. of         S of         Nbr. of         Z of
Prolect/Course           Participants      Total      Particigants      Total
Agriculture                   385            3.2           194             1.3
Applied Arts                  408            3.3           592             4.1
Business Studies              830            6.8           958            6.6
Crafts                        501            4.1           856            5.9
Construction                1,684           13.8         1.765           12.1
Electronics &               1,794           14.7         2,045           14.1
Electronic-Related
Fashion & Fabric and        2,905           23.8         3,434  _/       23.6
Beauty Culture
Food Preparation            1,362           11.2         1,852           12.7
Mechanical                  1,115            9.1         1,114             7.7
Tourism                       683            5.6           783            5.4
Services                      348            2.8           659  b/        4.5
Performing Arts               199            1.6           286            2
Total Applicants        12,174                       14,538
a/ Figure includes 2,417 participants for Fashion & Fabric, and 1,244 for
Beauty Culture.
b/ Includes 424 participants for Services, and 235 for Family Services.
Sources YTEPP



- 41 -
ANNEX 3. 1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Labor Market Information System
Terms of Reference
1.     The project is providing assistance for the development and
implementation of a national labor market information system (LMIS) which
would collect, analyze and disseminate information needed by YTEPP and other
organizations in planning their education and training activities in light of
labor market conditions and prospects. It also would assist youth and the
unemployed generally, in planning careers and/or selecting training courses in
light of job availability, earnings, and conditions of employment and self-
employment. The information produced by the LMIS would also help managers and
entrepreneurs with their decisions on new operations requiring different types
and mix of employee skills.
2.     The proposed LMIS would build upon the proposal for a National Manpower
Development System initiated by the Manpower Research Unit of the Division of
Technical/Vocational Education and Training and the National Training Board in
the Ministry of Education. Since 1984, the Division has been providing inputs
for a National Manpower Development System, which includes: (i) developing the
system for a national manpower data base; (ii) analysis of manpower and
training needs requirements; and (iii) developing analytical tools for the
manpower system.
3.     The LMIS would provide the following types of information to its end-
users:
(a) the macroeconomic context of labor market conditions and
prospects, such as trends and government projections of global and
sectoral economic growth;
(b) trends, patterns and projections of labor supply, in the
aggregate, and in respect to particular occupational groups, based
on labor market and demographic analysis and on information
concerning enrollments and certifications in the professional,
technical, and vocational training system;
(c) trends, patterns, and projections of labor demand, in the
aggregate, and in respect to particular occupational groups, based
on the analysis of labor market survey data (from CSO and
eventually, from specifically commissioned surveys) and on the
judgments of "key informants' knowledgeable about existing and
prospective employment opportunities in major formal and informal
sources of jobs;



- 42 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 3
(d) qualitative information on employment prospects and skilled
manpower requirements derived from key informants from
agriculture, industry, services, and other sectors, from
enterprises of different sizes and scale, and from both the formal
and informal sectors:
(e) testimonials of selected individuals who have completed certain
types of training in YTEPP or other programs and subsequently
attained satisfactory employment experiences or started their own
businesses; and
(f) a synthesis of the above information in the form of rankings of
relevant occupational categories according to the likelihood that
new labor market entrants seeking work in the corresponding
occupations will find the expected jobs and if so, the earnings
that could be anticipated in such jobs. From these rankings a
large array of interesting questions bearing on resource
allocation choices and career training choices can be illuminated
on trends, patterns, and prospects in respect to broad labor
market aggregates (e.g. total employment, average wage indices),
and in respect to particular occupation groups (eg. auto
mechanics).
4.     The LMIS would produce and disseminate several reports per year.  Its
"core report" would be issued bi-annually and draw upon the CSO quarterly
household surveys, key informant surveys and other basic data sources. The
core reports would provide an analysis of the current occupational outlook
drawing upon the relevant labor market variables, both supply and demand. The
LMIS has already produced a draft of its first core report which would be
issued before the end of 1990. The LMIS would also produce "special reports"
examining in depth the circumstances and prospects of particular occupation
groups (e.g. street vendors, construction industry trades, manufacturing,
agricultural work). One major report would examine the nature and evolution
of the informal sector. The rationale for the special reports is that they
are the most suitable vehicle for gathering and conveying very important
information concerning the real world nature of specific occupations, to wit:
(a) to provide potential and actual trainees with information drawn
from world of work experiences similar to what they may expect in
following particular occupational tracks and pursuits;
(b) information on start-up costs and requirements for a small
business of the sort envisaged for YTEPP graduates pursuing the
entrepreneurial route; and the costs and requirements for
succeeding in the venture;
(c) information on working conditions associated with specific
occupations and the type of routine that should be anticipated;
and



- 43 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3-of 3
(d) information on how to acquire additional training and other
resources pertinent to specific occupations on a continuing basis
after YTEPP or other programs.
The information collected on (c) would be used by YTEPP counselors when
providing career guidance and counselling to youth. The LMIS and YTEPP would
need to develop a work plan for preparing this information. The LMIS would
also develop a plan for the production and dissemination of its reports to
various end users beginning in 1991.
5.     The LMIS has been placed in the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization,
under the supervision of the Director of the Social Sector Unit. During
project implementation, the LMIS would be operated by a labor economist who
would be assisted by a senior advisor appointed by the Ministry of Planning.
Both positions have already been filled with financial assistance from the
Ministry of Planning. LMIS would have a small technical advisory group to
advise staff on the work plan. The advisory group has already been formed and
has held meetings. The Ministry of Planning and Mobilization would continue
its support of the LMIS; the project would finance special reports prepared by
the LMIS for YTEPP. At negotiations, the Government gave its assurance of
continued financial support for the staff and administrative costs of the LMIS
for the project's duration (para. 4.2b).



_ 44 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Tracer Studies
Introduction
1.     Over the five year period commencing 1991 the proposed project would
support YTEPP conducting a series of tracer studies among its graduates. The
main objective of the studies is to obtain feedback from the students which
can be used to improve the delivery of the program and to measure its overall
impact on youth employment. The studies will be based on data resulting from
a series of surveys to be conducted among a random sample of YTEPP graduates.
The data collection aspect of the surveys will be carried out by an outside
consulting firm. The Research and Evaluation Unit of YTEPP will concentrate
on the analysis of the data.
2.     The survey will make use of a detailed questionnaire.  The survey will,
for each student, collect information on their activity in wage work, family
work and self-employment. For each sector information is collected on
occupation, industrial sector, earnings and hours worked etc. For the self-
employment section the survey concentrates on obtaining information on what is
necessary to set up one's own business. The young entrepreneurs are asked to
give information on how much startup capital they needed, their experiences in
obtaining a loan from a bank or other institutions, their sales over the last
three months etc. In order to explain the performance of the students detailed
background information is collected. A section on education, work experience
and family background is included in the questionnaire. The last section in
the questionnaire collects a direct feedback of the students on their
training. They are asked to rate the different components of their training
and to give a self assessment of how they benefited from the YTEPP program.
3.     The data from the survey will provide the Research and Evaluation Unit
of YTEPP with a wealth of information to analyze the effectiveness of the
program. By analyzing how students with different backgrounds perform in the
labor market information can be generated which can subsequently be used to
tailor better the program to the individual needs of each student. The
counselors can use this information to guide the students through the various
options in the YTEPP program and to inform the students of what it takes to be
successful in the labor market. In addition, the tracer study will shed light
upon the employment participants in various YTEPP education and training
activities.
Operation
4.     The data collection for the tracer studies wil. be carried out by a
consulting firm. At present, YTEPP does not have the capacity to carry out
the data collection by itself. Instituting that capacity would lead to a



- 45 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 4
the data collection by itself. Instituting that capacity would lead t-c E
distraction of attention away from the management of the program, which is
against the philosophy of YTEPP, Ltd. Leaving the task of the data collection
to an outside firm gives YTEPP the freedom to concentrate on analysis. The
consulting firm will contact the students in their homes and conduct the
interviews. The results from the interviews will thereafter be entered onto
the computer. The consulting firm will supply YTEPP with the raw data files
and statistical abstracts. The terms of reference for the consulting firm
appear in the Attachment to this annex. YTEPP will carry out the analysis of
the data and write reports. In this task YTEPP will be assisted by the World
Bank and consultants in the form of advice and training in the use of computer
software for analysis, definition of methodology and design of questionnaires.
To this end, technical assistance is included in the research budget.
5.    Over the six-year period of project implementation, YTEPP plans to
conduct a series of five tracer studies. The time schedule for the surveys is
outlined in the table below. The purpose of the field testing and the first
round of the survey is to refine the questionnaire, smooth data collection and
build the capacity for the analysis of data within YTEPP. The second round of
the survey, to take place in November 1991, interviews 2000 YTEPP students six
months after their graduation. A control group of 750 is included in this
round. The third and the fourth round both interview the students one year
after their graduation. At this time the students will have had more time to
establish their own businesses. The final round of the survey interviews
students from four different cycles. It will enable YTEPP to make an overall
assessment of the program, by comparing different cycles and looking at the
long-term effects of YTEPP training.
Planned Tracer Studies
Survey                          Graduates              YTEPP       Control
round                  Date         year         interviewees       group
Field
testing         Jan 91              1990                 100          no
First           Mrch 91             1990                 750          no
Second          Nov 91              1991               2,000          750
Third           Hay 92              1991               2,000          750
Fourth          Hay 93              1992               2,000          750
Fifth           Hay 95              1991,1992          6,000          750
1993,1994
Methodology
6.     The tracer studies are designed to provide information to YTEPP
management and to higher level government officials and international funding
agencies. YTEPP management is primarily interested in using the information
to help them choose between alternative ways of implementing the program.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 4
Thus, for YTEPP management the evaluation will be structured as a test among
alternatives. After YTEPP has had a period of time to make improvements,
funding agencies and international donors will want to know whether continued
funding of YTEPP is a good use of scarce resources. Thus, it is not
sufficient only to evaluate competing alternatives within YTEPP. It is also
necessary to evaluate the benefits and costs of the overall YTEPP program.
7.     The evaluation studies will focus on four group.: 1) those that
participate in each alternative form of the training program; 2) those subject
to the lottery for oversubscribed programs; 3) all other YTEPP participants;
and 4) a comparison group of individuals who did not participate in vTEPP. A
sample will be drawn for each of these groups, oversampling Groups 1 and 2.
The size of the samples will depend on the number of individuals in Groups 1
and 2 (unknown at this time) and the weight assigned by YTEPP and the World
Bank to the issues raised by evaluation of Groups 1 and 2 (e.g. what will be
learned from each group and how important is that knowledge).
Evaluation of Alternatives within YTEPP
8.      The evaluation of alternative features of the YTEPP program will be
conducted as follows. Prior to the entry of a new cycle of students, a
limited number of clearly defined course options will be specified in joint
consultation between the YTEPP management team and the World Bank.  Where
YTEPP wishes to compare two (or more) methods of conducting a given course,
YTEPP will provide the chosen consulting firm a list of centers to receive
one or another of a set of alternatives. Given that list, the consulting firm
will randomly assign which center will receive each alternative form of course
implementation. For example, suppose YTEPP wishes to consider two methods of
teaching automechanics - method A with a higher attitudinal development
component and method B with a higher career enhancement component. Suppose
automechanics is currently taught at 40 centers and YTEPP wants each method
tried out at 50 percent of the centers. YTEPP would provide the consulting
firm with a list of the 40 centers and the firm would randomly assign 20
centers to be taught with method A and 20 centers to be taught with method B.
9.     With a large enough number of sites, the problem of evaluation is
straightforward. The differential effect of the programs is obtained by
subtracting the mean performance (e.g. earnings, time spent in employment,
etc.) of individuals at the A sites from the mean performance of those at the
B sites. The only complication is that with a limited number of sites, random
assignment may not insure that individuals in the A and B sites are "equals"
before training begins. For the April 1991 graduates, a check on this could
be performed by comparing the mean performance (after training) of individuals
from the A sites to individuals in B sites among the April 1990 graduates. If
a difference is found in the April 1990 graduates, then an adjustment should
be made to the evaluation of the April 1991 graduates.
Evaluation When a Course is Oversubscribed
10.       Admission into a course  will not be determined on a first-come,



- 47 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 4
first-served basis. Instead, all qualified individuals who register for a
course between the announced opening and closing of the registration period
will be considered eligible for admission into that course. When a course is
urdersubscribed (i.e. there are fewer qualified applicants for the course than
there are positions available), no qualified applicant will be denied
admission for evaluation purposes. When a course is oversubscribed (i.e.
there are more qualified applicants for the course than positions available),
the available positions will be filled by a lottery. To ensure both fairness
and the perception of fairness, the design and selection of individuals from
the lottery will be carried out with YTEPP assistance if needed.
Evaluation Using Comparison Group
11.    Using a lottery for oversubscribed courses will improve the evaluation
procedure considerably over the case where evaluation is based solely on
differences between the trainees and a comparison group. The evaluation
procedure will depend on the specific evaluation question being asked, the
degree to which the program is oversubscribed and the subsequent actions by
those who lose the lottery for their first choice (i.e. they may leave YTEPP
or take another training course which is not oversubscribed). The exact
procedure for the evaluation will be developed by YTEPP in cooperation with
the World Bank. If the number of applicants remains at the level of 1990 and
the total intake of YTEPP will be limited as of next year YTEPP will, in
conjunction with the World Bank, develop a lottery system to select eligible
students for entry into the program. The tracer study will follow a group who
applied for the program but did not gain entry through the lottery.
12.    As of November 1991 the survey will include a comparison group of
approximately 750 individuals with similar characteristics to be chosen from a
master sampling frame maintained by the Central Statistical Office. -ch the
technical assistance of the World Bank, the Research and Evaluation Unit will
compare the differences between the two groups in earnings, time spent in
employment or time spent in self-employment over the previous year. The World
Bank will analyze the differences using more sophisticated econometric
techniques to control for observable and unobservable differences between
YTEPP participants and a control group. At the moment, there is considerable
controversy in the economics profession as to whether this approach produces
acceptable evaluation results. It is clear from current evidence that this
approach requires substantial background information on trainees and members
of the comparison group. This detailed informaticn will be collected.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3.2
Attachment A
Page 1 of 2
Terms of Reference for Consulting Firm (first year)
Obiectives:
To assist the Research and Evaluation Unit of YTEPP in its data collection and
processing over the period from December 1990 to November 1991, as described
in this terms of reference.
The data collection process comprises of two components:
Firstly, data of the application forms from all applicants.
Secondly, data for a tracer study from a sample of YTEPP graduates.
The objective of the study is to determine the relative labor market
performance, both in wage work and self-employment of the YTEPP graduates.
Terms of Reference:
The consultant will be responsible for collecting and processing the data
which becomes available during the contract period from the students of the
1990/91 and the 1991/92 course year. About 10,000 students have applied for
the 1990191 cycle, for the 1991/92 the amount of students is expected to be
around the same number. The consultant will work with the Research and
Evaluation Unit to ensure that the information is computerized and can be
easily accessed. The database should be organized in such a way that each
student has a unique ID code which enables the link between the various
questionnaires.
The consultant will collect and process the application forms of the 1990/91
cycle (available now) and the 1991/92 cycle (available August 1991).
The specific tasks aret
(a) Collect the application forms from the training centers. During
the collection, special attention should be devoted to ensure that
correctly completed forms are obtained for all students.
(b)   Enter the information from all application forms onto the
computer. The information will be coded by the consulting firm.
During data entry special attention should be given to ensure the'
quality of the data.
(c)   Perform a quality check  on the data and provide the Research and
Zvaluation Unit with a statistical abstract and reco.mendations on
how to improve the operation.
(d) Render all forms and the data on diskette to the Unit no later
than three (3) weeks after collection.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3.2
Attachment A
Page 2 of 2
The second task is to conduct two surveys among the April 1990 graduates.
The consultants input would be required durings
- The design of the questionnaire,
- The field testing of a sample of 100 graduates, scheduled to take place in
January 1991,
- The first round of the survey to be conducted on 750 graduates in March
1991, and,
- The second round of the survey, conducted on a sample of 2,750 graduates ,
scheduled for November 1991.
The specific tasks are:
(e)   Comment on the draft questionnaire which will be provided by the
Unit. In particular the consultant will contribute to obtaining a
correct measurement for the activity in wage work and self
employment.
(f)   Perform the field testing of the questionnaire. This task will be
carried out in close cooperation with the Unit and the World Bank.
The consultant is responsible for conducting the interviews and
entering the data onto hard diskette. At the end of the field
test the consultant will prepare a report containing a statistical
abstract and recommendations regarding the operation of the survey
and the design of the questionnaire.
(g)   Conduct the interviews of the first and second round of the
survey. The consultant will make all effort to obtain high quality
data for the sample as provided by the Unit. The minimum accepted
response rate is ninety (90) percent.
(h)   Enter the information from the completed questionnaires onto hard
diskette. During data entry, special attention should be given to
ensure the quality of the data. This includes, but is not limited
to, using a data entry program with range and consistency checks.
(i)   Perform a quality check on these data and provide the Unit with a
statistical abstract and recommendations on how to mprove this
operation.
(j)   Render all forms and the data on hard diskette to the Unit no
later thar. six (6) weeks after collection.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Career Enhancement Sub-Component
Background
1.        Many of the youth who enter the YTEPP program have low levels of
education and lack positive attitudes towards self, work and society. In
order for these youth to become productive members of society, they need
attitudinal development, improved literacy and numeracy skills, and enhanced
social, communication and finaucial skills. A minority of some 10 percent,
with very low levels of literacy and numeracy, requires special tutoring to
upgrade their literacy and numeracy skills to levels where they can benefit
from other YTEPP training programs. Due to financial and managerial
constraints, YTEPP has not been able to fully activate such career enhancement
aspects of its program during the first years of operation. The project will
therefore finance both quantitative expansion and qualitative improvements in
these activities.
2.        The main problems encountered by YTEPP in administering career
enhancement training, and especially in attitudinal development training,
during the first two cycles included: a) lack of a curriculum; b) insufficient
number of tutors; c) deficient tutor skills and motivation; d) insufficient
time allotment to career enhancement training; e) lack of training materials
and supplies for both tutors and trainees; g) poor acceptance of the need for
this type of training by some tutors, coordinators and trainees; h) passivity
of training techniques; i) scheduling and coordination problems; j) problems
of staff remuneration; and k) lack of adequate monitoring and supervision of
activities.
3.        YTEPP has made considerable improvements in career enhancement
training during the 1990/91 cycle although many of the above-mentioned
problems still remain unresolved because of financial constraints. Curriculum
development has begun, integrating social and attitudinal development with
occupational literacy and numeracy training, which in turn has improved tutor
and student motivation. The course has been extended to 210 class hours, with
an additional 50 hours for intensive tutoring in literacy and numeracy skills.
A total of 400 career enhancement tutors, most of them primary and secondary
level teachers, have also been hired, resulting in a tutor to student ratio of
about 1s25 The majority of tutors were given five full days of pre-service
training. In-service training for tutors has also begun on the basis of one
day a month, although with no financial support for either trainers of tutors
or the tutors themselves. A total of 100 YTEPP tutors, the large majority of
them from the career enhancement area, have also received two days of training
in counseling and interviewing techniques and in career orientation.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 8
Organization under the Project
4.        Career enhancement training ur.der the proposed project would
undergo both quantitative and qualitative improvements. It would encompass
three activities. One of these activities is counseling, which would include
both career and personal counseling and would take place at the time of
application for an estimated 12,000 applicants or more, and during the
training period, as needed. A second activity is special tutoring for those
applicants who are functionally illiterate. The third and major activity, in
which all YTEPP applicants participate, is career enhancement training. It
would be given in two phases: an intensive induction phase of 90 hours prior
to the start-up of the full YTEPP program in September, and 120 hours during
the cycle itself, in parallel with other training. Career enhancement
training would focus on developing literacy and numeracy as well as productive
attitudes and social, financial and communication skills among trainees.
Career Counseling
5.        The project would make major improvements in career and personal
counseling of YTEPP participants which has been a weakness in previous years.
Improvements in up-front career counseling would be given special attention
through enhancements in tutor/counselor selection and training and in
counseling materials development and production. All applicants would make
appointments for personal interviews and counseling at the time of application
and testing. During such counseling, when the different available skill
training options or pathways would be reviewed with them in terms of their
personal qualifications, experience, needs and preferences. It is expected
that a portion of YTEPP applicants would be directed to other programs more
suited to their specific needs. This may be the case, for instance, with an
estimated 5 percent or more, who have severe emotional or social problems and
would therefore be better served by a program such as that run by SERVOL which
has long experience with such youth. Continuing career and personal
counseling will be available during the training period, to be provided
largely by the career enhancement tutors. In addition, the project would
assist YTEPP in establishing a Saturday morning clinic using contracted
professional services provided on a sign-up basis for students who have
special needs beyond the capabilities of the tutor-counselors.
Career Enhancement Training
6.        All YTEPP trainees would be required to take some Career
Enhancement training which would normally consist of 210 contact hours of
classroom learning, plus an additional 50 hours of individual and group
projects in income generation or community service outside the classroom.
Most of the 70 contact hours of increase over the previous year will be in
occupational literacy and numeracy related skills to directly enhance
employability of YTEPP graduates. Tutors will be working in an expected ratio
of 1s25 YTEPP trainees, with 400 tutors employed each year.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 8
7.        Career enhancement training would take place in two phases: a)
full-time at the beginning of the YTEPP program in August. for an intensive 15
day period; and b) during the remainder of the year, in parallel with job
skill training or business training at the rate of four contact hours per
week. An initial three training modules, provided during the induction period
of 90 contact hours would provide trainees with an introduction to YTEPP and
to work opportunities, particularly in self-employment and will focus on
developing better attitudes and social skills. The remaining 120 contact
hours, plus 50 hours outside the classroom, would be conducted in parallel
with other training and stress financial and communication life skills, with
continued attention to social and attitudinal aspects and improved literacy
and numeracy as an integrated part of the learning. The project would make
qualitative improvements possible in the course through development, pre-
testing and production of tutor and trainee manuals, through provision of
equipment and audio-visual and print teaching aids, through extension and
improvement of tutor pre-service and in-service training, and through improved
monitoring and evaluation. The proposed improvements and project inputs are
described in detail in the following sections.
Special Tutoring in Literacy and Numeracy Skills
8.        Applicants to the YTEPP Program will undergo testing of literacy
and numeracy skills using the Cloze Comprehensive Test at levels of 8 years
and 12 years, the Schonnel Word Recognition Test and a specially designed
simple numeracy test. It is expected that about 10 percent or about 1,200 of
YTEPP applicants will continue to test below age 8 reading levels over the
project period. Of these about 1,000 are expected to be accepted into the
program. YTEPP will attempt to serve this group through; a) directing them
into career choices and skill training which are more suitable to their
literacy and numeracy levels; b) through providing them with special tutoring
in literacy and numeracy as needed; and c) involving their peers in helping
them improve their literacy and numeracy skills.
9.        The special tutoring in literacy and numeracy will be provided by
Assistant Trainers who would be drawn from the ranks of unemployed YTEPP
graduates with higher education levels, from those who have been given
training as career enhancement tutors but have not been hired as such, and
possibly from outside the program. All would be given four weeks of full-time
training. They would be employed on a part-time basis to tutor the
illiterates, initially in groups of 3 and later in groups of two. During the
first year of project operation. YTEPP intends to provide 50 contact hours of
tutoring per illiterate trainee. Student progress would be evaluated through
repeat testing at the end of the year, with adjustments made in the number of
tutoring hours, and if Indicated in the procedures and materials being used,
over the subsequent years. The project would permit improvements in this
aspect through improving tutor training, developing curriculum and providing
instructional and learning materials and through improved monitoring and
evaluation of the sub-component.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 4 of 8
Component Management and Staffing
10.       The Career Enhancement Component would be managed by a National
Coordinator directly responsible to the Executive Director, YTEPP. The
Coordinator would be supported by one assistant and by two Senior Supervisors.
The implementation of the component in each of the nine YTEPP areas (including
Tobago) would be under the responsibility of 17 Course Supervisors. On the
average, one Course Supervisor would be responsible for overseeing about three
centers and at least 30 tutors. They would be provided with travel
allowances, but will use their own cars. The Course Supervisors would also be
responsible for supervision of the Assistant Trainers in a ratio of about one
supervisor to about five Assistant Trainers although this would vary
considerably from one YTEPP area to the next. It is expected that career
enhancement supervisors will visit each career enhancement tutor every 8
course hours or once every two weeks. Under the project, the present part-
time status of the National Coordinator and Senior Coordinators would be
changed to full time. The nine area course supervisors would be increased to
17 but would remain part-time, working 24 hours per month. The project would
finance the salaries and travel expenses of administrative staff working under
this component.
11.       YTEPP expects to hire some 400 part-time tutors and 80 Assistant
Trainers for the Career Enhancement, with the tutors in a 1:25 ratio and the
Assistant Trainers in a ls12 ratio with trainees, but working in groups of 3
and later of 2. About 50 percent annual attrition is expected. Table 1 shows
the various components of Career Enhancement and the number of tutors for
each.
Table ls CAREER ENHANCEMENT COMPONENTS AND TUTORS
Component                       No. of Trainees            No. of tutors
Applicant Interview                12,000                       100
Career Counseling                  10,000                       100
Career Enhancement Training        10,000                       400
Special Tutoring in Literacy
and Numeracy                       1,000                        80
Curriculum, Training Methods and Materials
12.       The 210 hours of classroom sessions in career enhancement would be
divided among 12 learning modules. Numbers of contact hours per module vary
and are subject to some flexibility to allow for local adjustment according to
student needs and interests. Continuing curriculum development for the career
enhancement training and tutor training would be an integral part of the



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 5 of 8
program. The curriculum would be evaluated during the 1990/91 cycle in terms
of relative emphasis and order of modules, and adjusted accordingly.
13.       The basic focus of each of the modules in terms of the four main
skill development objectives of the career enhancement component is in
Table 2. Some modules cover more than one objective because of the integrated
nature of the curriculum being developed.
Table 2s FOCUS OF THE CURRICULUM MODULES
Attitudinal               Social             Financial            Commmnication
Skills                Skills               Skills                   Skills
Induction to YTEPP    Family Life          Induction to YTEPP    Vocational
Direction
Self Assessment       National Identity   Financial Budgeting   Communication
Goal Setting          Leadership           Vocational Budgeting  Leadership
Leadership             'Me* & Society      Self-sufficiency       "Me' & Society
14.       Within these above modules, the course would focus on tailoring
curriculum content to YTEPP student needs. Attitudinal development would help
the trainees to understand what YTEPP is about, and to develop the type of
personal awareness, attitudes and feelings about themselves and society that
will help them to obtain maximum benefit from the training and prepare them
for future employment, particularly self-employment. Under social skills
development, the trainee would learn to fit in better and play a more
responsible and cooperative role within the family, society and nation.
Financial skills developed will be relevant to both the home and to self-
employment. The training would encourage trainees to start their own business
and teach how to estimate the cost of a job, pay bills, and do simple
accounting. The course would also promote better oral and written
communication skills with application to the workplace and the broader social
context.
'15.       The tutors responsible for Career Enhancement Training would be
expected to conduct the training through an action-oriented 'Tell-Show Dow
model, which will include active student participation in speaking, debates,
rap sessions, writing letters, filling in forms, computing bills, costing
materials, group projects outside the classroom and so on. Each training
module would define specific types of terminal behaviors expected of the
trainees, which will be useful in evaluation.
16.       The project would finance the development, pre-testing and
production of materials for career counselling, career enhancement training
and basic literacy and numeracy skill development materials. For the career
counseling aspect of the program, simple pamphlets on occupations would be
developed at the rate of 20 per annum, according to priority need in terms of
encouraging students into such careers. The LMIS information will be put to



- 55 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 6 of 8
practical use in this form. These pamphlets would not only be used by the
tutor-counsellors, but made available to applicants for perusal during the
counselling, and later on used in the career enhancement training for
occupational literacy development. To support career counseling, the program
would also provide audio-visual equipment and materials in the 8 key YTEPP
centers and make visual aids available in the 44 YTEPP training centers. For
development of the basic reading and numeracy skills among the 10 percent of
functional illiterates entering YTEPP, the project would adapt or reproduce
materials with the cooperation of the Ministry of Education and of SERVOL.
Manuals for both tutors and trainees would be provided for the career
enhancement training, based on the evaluated and revised curriculum. All new
materials would be initially reproduced in limited quantities and tested in
use prior to mass production.
Training of Trainers
17.       Both pre-service and in-service training for Career Enhancement
tutors would be doubled under the Project. While only new tutors or tutors
needing additional training would be included in the pre-service training
after the first year, all Career Enhancement tutors would participate in the
in-service training throughout the life of the project. The increased
training would permit tutors to become familiar with the new curriculum,
instructional materials and equipment and result in a general upgrading of
quality of instruction. Training for career counselors would also be
increased from two to five days full-time, given the new importance to be
given to the counseling aspect and its continuation throughout the YTEPP
cycle. A pre-service training program would also be set up for the Training
Assistants who will act as tutors of the functionally illiterate YTEPP
applicants with only new Training Assistants undergoing this training after
the first year. Course supervisors and senior supervisors would be included
in both career enhancement and counseling training. The tutor and counselor
trainers would include the YTEPP national course coordinator for Career
Enhancement, outside specialists and experienced tutors from related programs.
18.       The pre-service training course for tutors would take place during
July-August for a period of two weeks in four YTEPP centers. During the first
project year YTEPP would include close to 500 applicants for tutors in this
training, as well as the 17 course coordinators and two senior coordinators.
From the 500 trained tutors YTEPP would select the most promising 400 as
tutors. YTEPP expects to hire many of the remainder as Assistant Trainers,
for the remedial literacy and numeracy training. In subsequent years half
this number is expected to undergo pre-service training.
19.       There would also be two weekend days of in-service training per
month for all career enhancement tutors, totalling an additional 14 days of
in-service training in the course of the year. These will be more informal
and problem-focused sessions, conducted in eight YTEPP centers. They would
serve for monitoring and evaluation purposes as well as for tutor training and
permit a rapid management response to any major problems or deficiencies in
the course.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 7 of 8
20.       The sub-component would additionally provide four weeks of pre-
service training for about 100 applicants for Assistant Trainer positions,
from whom about 80 would be hired to give special assistance to the
functionally illiterate YTEPP trainees. They will be given four weeks of full
time (defined as 5 hours per day) training two in developmental literacy and
two in numeracy, by qualified instructors from the Ministry of Education
Program in Developmental Reading and Remedial Math.
21.       YTEPP career counselors would be drawn from the ranks of both
career enhancement tutors and skill training tutors. They would be selected
for personal qualifications as well as interests and given five days of
intensive practical training in interviewing, counseling and testing of
applicants. These 100 tutor-counsellors would also be oriented on different
career choices available to youth; their advantages and disadvantages in terms
of potential income and work conditions; the employment and self-employment
potential of each currently in Trinidad and Tobago; the kinds of educational
and personal qualifications each calls for; and the proposed YTEPP training
path and nature of skill training involved.
Table 3: CAREER ENHANCEMENT COMPONENT (CEC)
PLAN FOR TRAINING OF TRAINERS
Type of                Nos.
Trainee             Per Annum*   Trainers       Locations   Duration   Timing
CE Tutors &             500     YTEPP Coord.
Supervisors             250     & external       4 centers   2 weeks    July-
Specialists                  full time  August
CE Tutors               400     CE Supervisors   8 centers  2 days/    Sept.-
400                                   per month  April
Assistant Trainers      100     MOE Literacy       4 centers  20 days    July-
50      and Math Spec.
Aug.
Career Counsellors      300     YTEPP Coord.
150     & ext. spec.       8 centers  5 days      July
* The top number only applies to the first year.  The lower number applies to
subsequent years and is based on an expected 50 percent attrition rate in the
first two years, which is expected to decrease to 30 percent thereafter except
among Training Assistants.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 8 of 8
Monitoring and Evaluation
22.       The Career Enhancement component would have a new curriculum, new
instructional materials, new audio-visual equipment and aids, and largely new
tutors. Considerable attention to pre-testing, ongoing monitoring and to
evaluation of cost-effectiveness would therefore be essential. Monitoring and
evaluation of this component will covers (i) pre-testing of the new curriculum
and new tutor and trainee manuals in the classroom prior to final mass
production; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of tutor in-service and pre-service
training; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of student learning and application
of skills in the form of specific projects or activities associated with each
learning module; and (iv) evaluation of the actual impact of training in terms
of change in attitudes and improvements in literacy and numeracy skills. To
the extent possible, the monitoring and evaluation activity will be integrated
into the actual training activities themselves, as for instance, during the
monthly in-service tutor-training sessions. Both Training Center, Area Center
and YTEPP upper management would be provided with regular reports on
performance in order to ensure rapid management response to problems and
ensure constant upgrading of effectiveness on an ongoing basis.



* 58 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Job Skills Training Sub-Component
1.        Job Skills in the YTEPP Program.  The strengthened YTEPP Program
which is shown in the Pathways Chart in Figure 1 and which has emerged during
preparation of the Education and Training for Youth Employment Project is a
comprehensive effort of active assistance to unemployed youth which includes:
(i) continued career counseling; (ii) activities to build self-esteem and
motivation; (iii) strengthening of basic and *life skills'; and (iv) business
orientation, work experience placement, and a follow-up system including
individual mentors and support groups. Job skills training is only one part
of this menu of activities; some YTEPP Youth will take none of it; and it
takes up less than half of participating trainee time even if only structured
contact time is counted (the standardized duration of job skills training is
only 224 hours). Nevertheless, a well targeted program of job skills training
is of paramount importance for success of the overall YTEPP effort in
improving the employment and income-earning prospects of the youth population.
2.        General Purposes of the Job Skills Training Sub-Component.  The
main purposes of the sub-component are to (a) equip each YTEPP graduate with a
minimum set of recognized competencies adequate for entry-level employment
(paid or self-employment); and (b) serve as a vehicle and motivational element
for strengthening of trainees' basic skills and education to ensure continued
trainability. While purpose (a) will necessarily be the main determinant in
the design of the skills training programs, the importance of purpose (b)
should not be underestimated when dealing with a trainee population which has
limited literacy and numeracy skills and most of whom regard themselves as
academic failures and have a strongly negative attitude to formal studies.
3.        Competency Objectives.  The 'minimum set of competencies for entry-
level employment' referred to in para. 2 (a) above will be based on the
modular competency descriptions and ratings used in the National Training
Board's (NTB's) System of Certificates of Acquired Competencies (CACs). This
identification of competencies will ensure on the one hand, that YTEPP
graduates are competitive in the labor market, having nationally recognized
competencies at the entry level for skilled workers which are generally
familiar to employers; and on the other hand, that training objectives are
based on actual job requirements embodied in the CACs which are based on
thorough job analyses done according to the DACUM method, an effective and
practical process used in industrialized countries. Since YTEPP's Job Skills
Training Program is of very short duration (220 hours total), each 'set of
competencies' serving as training objectives for a YTEPP Course will be very
small and composed of only a few selected CAC modules out of the many required
for a fully trained skilled worker. However, essential general modules such
as job safety will always be included, as will at least one specific
"employable' skill module. For many courses, a new combination of modules
will be made to form a 'cluster of related skills.' (See para. 5 below.)



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 4
4.        Curriculum and Instructional Guides Development.  Based on the
competency training objectives provided by the CAC module descriptions, YTEPP
will prepare, in agreed standard formats and in time for the next training
cycle starting in August 1991, complete curriculum materials including
instructional guides, detailed workshop job sheets for each module and sub-
module of all YTEPP job skills training courses. For this work YTEPP has
already contracted a number of specialist consultants, expenditure eligible
for retroactive financing from the proposed Loan. A list of consultancies
required is included as Attachment C. During curriculum preparation, NTB
would advise as required on draft curricula and instructional materials to
ensure that: (i) the combination of competency modules selected4 as objectives
for each course form a consistent basis for entry-level employment, and (ii)
that the instructional guides are of sufficient quality and detail to ensure
full coverage of the competency requirements for each module selected,
including a full set of practical exercises adequate to train, evaluate and
certify the competencies specified for each Course. The cost of developing
and printing of curriculum materials and Certificates of Acquired Competencies
in adequate quantities for YTEPP's use would be financed from the Proposed
Loan.
5.        The "Cluster of Related Skills' Concept)' The CACs which form the
basis for curriculum design are logically organized per occupational specialty
(for instance, CAC No. 954.20, Construction Carpentry/Joinery), permitting
gradual progression from fundamental job skills (safety, care and maintenance
of tools) to more special competencies within the specialty (such as curved
stairway construction). While this is the most practical organization of the
certification system, a training course would combine modules from different
CACs to ensure an appropriate mix of competencies to the segment of the labor
market. By combining, for instance, basic modules from construction
carpentry, masonry, and plumbing, a course can be designed which could train a
building maintenance worker with sufficient skills to perform a relatively
broad spectrum of small jobs. This would enable herihim to find employment in
maintenance activities of too small a scale to justify employing specialists
in any one field. This concept of training in 'clusters of related skills' is
well suited in principle for a substantial part of YTEPP's job skills training
courses (although great care must be taken to ensure that all modules can
indeed be covered adequately in the limited time available). This is true
particularly in areas such as construction, agriculture, and animal husbandry,
and food processing. Finally, cluster training also adds to the flexibility
of skills supply; in periods of low economic activity, 'cluster' workers have
more alternative sources of income; in a boom, their skills in any one of
their fields, though not of very high productivity will likely land them a
job. Attachment A provides a list of occupational areas and course clusters
to be included in the job skills training program.
6.        Curricula and Certificates for New Job Skill Areas.  In its 1991
program, YTEPP intends to include new job skills training courses particularly
l/See also 'Broad-Based Training in Clusters of Related Skills," SAR for The
Bahamas Second Training Project, Selected Working Papers, Part B, App. 2.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3. 4
Page 3 of 4
for tourism and agro-based industries, as well as for other growth sectors as
identified in available and ongoing studies of the economy and labor market.
For some of the new skill areas, CACs do not yet exist so that curricula and
CACs will need to be developed concurrently and no later than the end of
December 1991. YTEPP has already entered into a formal agreement with HOE-NTB
to ensure that the necessary CACs are developed. Also for YTEPP cluster
courses and some other courses in already existing areas of training, NTB will
edit or prepare suitably condensed CACs for YTEPP (to avoid having to issue a
number of separate CACs to cluster-trained graduates). However, the
specification and rating standards for each competency module will be
identical to that in the corresponding regular CAC, and this will be explained
in the certificates to ensure that employers understand that YTEPP
certificates are equivalent to CACS and issued under NTB standards.
7.        Center-Based and Community-Based Training.  The vast majority of
job skills courses will be offered in existing classrooms and workshop
facilities at 44 secondary schools, under an existing cooperative agreement
with the Ministry of Education (center-based training). In remote areas where
school facilities are not available or suitable for the training envisaged,
training will be arranged in smaller trainee groups in community centers,
private workshops and other facilities which can be made available (community-
based training). The course offerings would be based on the same curricula
for different clusters of employable skills (Attachment A) with suitable
adaptations of instructional materials to local circumstances in the case of
community-based programs. Under a loan covenant, YTEPP is required to produce
a statement by December 1, 1991 of objectives, detailed operational
procedures, costs and budget for community-based training to provide a basis
for further development of such projects.
8.        Course Offerings and Training Capacity on TVE in MOE.  Course
offerings for 1990 and 1991/92 are summarized in Attachment A. In the current
YTEPP training cycle, a total of 617 skills training courses are offered at
the 44 available locations, allowing for a theoretical total training
capacity, at 20 trainees per course, of slightly over 12,000 trainees (actual
enrollment depends on effective demand, and was close to that number as of
October 1990). About 200 community-based courses were open for enrollment in
October 1990, for a maximum training capacity of about 2,000 trainees (at 10
trainees per course). Actual enrollment is not known since community-based
instruction will not start until December 1990, but experience to date
indicates great difficulty in !ecruiting and retaining trainees for community
based courses (in 1988/89 only 296 trainees completed community-based
training, while the reported enrollment in center-based courses exceeded
14,000). For 1991/92, the number of center-based courses will be reduced to
484, in accordance with YTEPP's agreement with the Bank, for a theoretical
maximum capacity of about 9,000 trainees. The number of community-based
course offerings for 1991/92 has not been determined, but total effective
enrollment is expected to continue to be very limited. In order not to divert
management time and attention from the main purposes of the project,
community-based training will be limited to no more than 101 of total
enrollment for 1991/92 and 1992/93. The effective total enrollment in both
modes of job skills training is therefore expected to be no more than 10,000
trainees in 1991/92, consistent with the agreement to limit total intake to



- 61 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 4
the YTEPP program to 10,000 (some of whom vill skip job skills training
altogether), in order to ensure quality and relevance of the training with
regard to the labor market.
9.        Provision of Training Equipment.  The agreement between YTEPP and
the Ministry of Education (para. 7) ensures that YTEPP will have access to
necessary school facilities and equipment for center-based training programs.
While basically well equipped, the schools do not generally have a suitable
mix of equipment to accommodate the cluster model of skills training, and some
equipment while suitable, is close to the end of its operating life. The
project would therefore provide for the procurement and installation of very
limited additional or replacement equipment (which would become the property
of the respective schools, and as an additional benefit, would enable the
schools to improve their vocational programs also for in-school youth).
Attachment B provides a summary of base cost estimates for such equipment,
based on the (reduced) offering of center-based training planned for 1991/92.
The total base cost of this equipment is US$2.3 million, or about US$4,100 per
workshop. In addition, financing would be provided for community based
courses, limited, mainly to portable equipment, and to provide necessary
consumable materials for both types of training. The equipment procurement
schedule is shown separately in Annex 7.2.
10.       Program Management and Staffing.  The job skills training courses
would be taught by part-time tutors under the supervision of Center Hanagers
and Course Supervisors in accordance with established YTEPP procedures, as
described under the institutional and management strengthening component of
this project. In the current depressed economic situation, YTEPP anticipates
no serious problems with tutor recruitment, although there are difficulties in
finding sufficiently experienced tutors in some specialties and geographic
areas. YTEPP is studying the modalities for providing transport allowances
and other incentives to tutors to increase their willingness to teach in
remote locations.
11.       Tutor Training.  All new tutors will be given an induction seminar
and follow-up training on the new YTEPP program, curriculum and instructional
materials, and methodology. This training would be provided essentially by
existing Course Supervisors as part of their normal activities. With a
typical annual turnover of tutois of 33 percent, about 160 to 180 new tutors
would need to be trained annually, depending on the number of community-based
courses actually started each year.



- 62 -
.NNEX 3 4
Attachment A
Page 1 of 3
YTEPPs Center-Based Course Offerings by Years
1990191 and (1991/92)*
* Courses in (O to be initiated in 1991/92 term
Occupational Areas          Number             Courses/Course Clusters
(1990/91) (1991/92)
Agricultural:                                  General Gardening Cluster
11            11      Horticulture Cluster
Small Animal & Poultry
Production Cluster
(Fish Farming)
Garment Making and Furniture Cushions:
Dress Design and Making
Cluster
Shirt and Blouse Making
Cluster
Shirt and Pants Making
Cluster
105             75     Male Jackets and Sportswear
Design and Making Cluster
Lingerie Design and Making
Cluster
Furniture Cushion Making
Cluster
Food Preparation:
Catering Cluster
Take-away Foods
81            60      Bread-Cakes-Pastries Cluster
Cake Baking & Decoration
International Cuisine
Food Preservation Cluster
Constructiont
House Plan Drawing
Building Construction Cluster
Masonry and Concrete Cluster
41            64      Plumbing
Cabinet and Furniture Making
Cluster



- 63 -
ANNE 3.4
Attachment A
Page 2 Of 3
Occupational Areas          Number             Courses/Course Clusters
(1990/91) (1991/92)
Constructiont
Interior Design and Decoration
Cluster
(Building Maintenance Cluster)
Auto Mechanics:
Engine Tune-Up
Electrical System Repair
(Engine Tune-Up & Electrical
Cluster)
Minor Engine Overhaul
32             Brakes-Suspension-Steering
Cluster
45                   Transmission & Differential
Cluster
Agro-Mechanics Cluster
Auto Body and Painting Cluster
Auto Lube-Oil-Tire Service
Cluster
Beauty Culture:
57         36        Hair Culture
Performing Artes
10          5        Basic Drama Cluster
Music-Dance Cluster
Electronics/Electricity:
Television-Radio Cluster
21         10        Video Cassette Player Repair
Stereo-sound Equipment
Installation
Home Appliance Repair Cluster
65         48        Domestic Electrical
Installation
Electric Motor Repairs
Air Conditioning and Refrigeration:
8          8        Home Air Conditioning and
Refrigeration Cluster
Servicess
14         14         (Child Care Services)
(Care for Aged Services)
27         25        Typing Services



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.4
Attachmunt A
Page 3 of 3
Occupational Areas          Number              Courses/Course Clusters
(1990191) (1991/92)
Metal Fabrication:
Metal Furniture & Security
Grill Fabrication
27         18         Auto Exhaust System Repairs
Reinforcement Steel Placement
Craftst
Basketry and Terite Weaving
Cluster
Bamboo-Coconut Shell-Calabash
Art Cluster
33         33         Soft Toys Production
Dried Flower and Plant
Arrangements
Innovative Crafts
Tourisms
Tour Services Cluster
27         15         (Spanish Language Class)
(French Language Class)
Applied Artst
Commercial Art Cluster
Photography
Silk Screen Painting &
Greeting Card Cluster
45         30         Textile Design - Batik Art
Cluster
Charcoal Drawing - Oil
Painting Cluster
(Ceramics)
Totals             617        484



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH eMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Youth TraininR and Employment Partnership Program (YTEPP)
Numbers of Training Shops and Laboratories Used in the Skills Training Component
and Estimated Costs of Supplemental Equipment
Shops/Labs Used by Years I Number of Shops or Laboratories Used by Program Clusters by Years                      ITotall
Av. Base Costs of Equip- I                                                                                        Ishopsi
ient per Shop/Lab.              I Apl'd'l      I Bldg. IElec.lCloth-IFood I      ITour-IServ-IPerf.j Fam.1        I and
IAgri.I Arts ICrafti TradeslElecti ing IPrnn.jHMch.I 1sz lices lArts IServ.lBeauty ILabs I
Shops/Labs used or to
be used by years
1989-90                    18     33    55       92      94    107   88    49    30    25    16    12      52      668
1990-91                    11     45    33       41      91    105   81    70    27    27    10    14      57     612
1991-92                    11     30    33       64      66     75   60    50    15    25      5    14     36     477
Average weighted base
costs of supplemental
equipent per shop/lab.
US$,000    7.5    2.0    3.0    8.0    4.0    4.0   4.5  10.0   2.0  1.'  10.0   3.0         2.0
Total Base Costs by
Program Clusters
US$,000
(for the 477 shops/      ALI                    LA= 0 .I2   am2LE  L1=2  A2L=  aL.a  ALI  A2 V6          za,&  ZhUL.a
labs to be in use
in 1991-92)
rt
,"t



- 66 -
ANNEX 3.4
Attachment C
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Person
COMPONENT AND ACTIVITY                           Months               Dates
Community Based Training:
Curriculum Development Specialists
Vegetable Production                       1 (176 hours)      10/90-12/90
Swine Production                           1   a              10/90-12/90
Poultry Broiler Production                 1   a              10/90-12/90
Rabbit Production                          1                  10190-12/90
Food Preparation and Preservation          1   '              10/90-12/90
Building Construction                      1                  10/90-12/90
Electrical Installations for Homes         1   0              10/90-12/90
Home Plumbing                              1                  10/90-12/90
'Wood Furniture Making & Upholstery        1                  10/90-12/90
Metal Furniture Making                     1                  10190-12/90
Farm Tractor Tune-Up and
Preventative Maintenance                   1   a
Sub-Total                            11 months
Teacher Training Specialists
Pedagogical Training Specialist            3                   03/91-09/91
(Donaldson Technical Institute-TTT Div.)
(Ad hoc courses in Tobago)
Center-Based Training:
Curriculum Development Specialists
(Course syllabi to be prepared in accordance with YTEPP Terms of Reference)
Agricultural Production Clusters:
Poultry and Rabbit Production             0.75                10190-12/90
Swine and Goat Production                 0.75                10/90-12/90
Vegetable Production                      0.75                10/90-12/90
Flower Production & Landscaping           1.0                 10190-12/90
Fish Farming                              1.0                 10/90-12/90
Field Crop Production                     1.0                 10/90-12/90
Food Preparation Clusterst
Catering                                  0.5                 10190-12/90
Take-away Fast Foods                      0.5                 10/90-12/90
Bread-Cakes-Pastries                      0.5                 10/90-12/90
Food Preservation                         0.75                10/90-12190
Specialty Foods                           0.5                 10190-12/90



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.4
Attachment C
Page 2 of 2
Building Construction & Maintenance:
Building Maintenance                      1.0                 10/90-12190
(Carpentry-Masonery-Elec .Inst. -Plumbing)
Building Construction                     0.75                10190-12/90
(Concrete-Block Laying-Tile Setting-Carpentry)
Interior Decoration - Design              0.5                 10/90-12/90
Auto Mechanics Clusters:
Engine Tune-Up and Electrical System)    1.0                  10/90-12/90
Brakes-Wheel Bearings)
Suspension-Universal Joints               1.0                 10/90-12/90
Manual Transmission - Differentials       1.0                 10/90-12/90
Auto Painting - Minor Bodywork            1.0                 10/90-12/90
Wood Purniture Making & Upholstery        1.0                 10/90-12/90
Welding-Metal Fabrication Cluster:
Ornamental Ironwork-Door & Window)        0.75                10/90-12/90
Security Bars - Metal Furniture)
Welding - General Metal Repair            0.75                10/90-12/90
Television and Stereo Systems Repair      1.0                 10190-12/90
Small Appliance Repair                    1.0                 10/90-12/90
(Elec. Appliances-Washers-Dryers)
Domestic Refrigeration and Air
Conditioning                            ,1.0                10/90-12/90
Sub-Total                     20.0 months
Testing and Evaluation Specialists
Development of Certificates of Acquired
Skills for award to YTEPP trainees
completing the above courses.            24.0                 10/90-06/91
(NOTEs A contract should be negotiated with
the NTB for the development of such
certificates for the above listed programs.)
Development of Certificates of
Acquired Skills for other programs.      12.0                 10/90-06/91
Sub-Total                    36.0 months
Total Specialist
Requirements               70.0 months



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Work Experience Subcomponent
General Obiective
1.     As shown in the 'YTEPP Pathways' (Figure 1, page 20 of the SAR main
text), this is one of two subcomponents of the project's post-training support
component (the other being training and assistance for self-employment). It
would provide placement of at least 1,500 YTEPP graduates annually over the
life of the project, in order for them to obtain work experience in
enterprises and public agencies, normally for 16 weeks (640 working hours).
The objective is to reinforce and broaden the trainee's professional skills,
as well as to expose him/her to the realities and requirements of the
workplace environment. Experience shows that this *first insertion' into an
actual place of work is important for building self-confidence in graduates,
as well as to make them generally more attractive to employers.
Selection of Graduates for Work Experience Placement
2.     In the present situation of employment contraction it would be
extremely difficult to provide work experience placement for all youth
expected to graduate from YTEPP, even though YTEPP has agreed that the
aggregate annual intake to the program would be limited to 10,000. Therefore,
since work experience for skill enhancement is less critical in some trades,
and the need for confidence building varies among trainees, it is proposed to
make the program selective and recruitment to it competitive. This would
ensure that the most suitable trainees would be selected for work experience,
and would at the same time provide an incentive to trainees to perform well
during the preceding YTEPP training program.
YTEPP'S Work Experience and "Intensive Production' ProRrams
3.     YTEPP has had a work experience program since its beginning 1/;
however, due to capacity constraints and the depressed state of the economy,
only small numbers of graduates have been placed in actual work experience
positions in enterprises and agencies. To compensate for this shortcoming,
YTEPP devised an 'intensive production' program which tried to simulate, in
the training center, the environment and pressures of a producing enterprise.
This was not a bad idea under the circumstances, at least for some arts and
11 This program has been evaluated in two recent reports which are available
in the project file, namely, 'Evaluation Report on the Work Experience
Component of the YTEPP Programme*, by B. Merritt and R. S. Persad (April 26,
1990), and 'Report on the Work Experience Components of the World Bank Project
Youth Training and Employment Partnership' by A. Lequay (May 1990).



- 69 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 5
trades, but the program did not achieve its objectives because of widespread
shortages of the equipment and materials which would have been necessary to
create a reasonably realistic work atmosphere. The expectation had been that
enterprises would provide the materials in return for a promise to receive
saleable, finished products from the program, but this did not materialize.
The 'intensive production" program instead became largely an extension of the
skills training component and did not add much value to the overall YTEPP
program.
NTB's On-the-Job Training and Apprenticeship Programs
4.     The National Training Board (NTB) has been the main public agency
providing work experience and apprenticeships for graduates of secondary
technical programs and post-secondary technical institutes. Its On-the-Job
Training Program (OJT) and the 'O'-Level Apprenticeships have been valuable
sources of work experience and training for youth in the past. However, the
severe economic recession has greatly reduced the budgetary resources
available from the Government for these programs. In CY1989 only 200 OJT
places were made available, as contrasted to about 600 up to 1975, and in 1990
no funds were made available for this program. In CY1989 the 'O' Level
Apprentice program awarded 581 four-month apprenticeships to about 1,900
applicants who were mostly recent graduates from post-secondary technical
institutes and hotel training programs.
5.     Participants in the NTB program have received a daily allowance of
TT$20.00 (about US$5), financed by the Government, to cover costs of
transportation and lunch. Employers have not been expected to pay any wages
or allowances to trainees (although some have in fact paid an additional
allowance), based on the assumption that the benefits of the program to the
employer (some free labor and an opportunity to screen prospective future
employees) would approximately outweigh his costs for the instruction and
supervision of trainees. This has probably in fact repretmnted a reasonable
balance at least in the case of the 0 level' apprenticeship program which has
provided employers with relatively well trained workers; the proposed YTEPP
work experience program will require participation from employers.
6.     There is no systematic evaluation available of the NTB on-the-job
training program, and no rellable and up-to-date estimate by NTSB of the
maximum number of trainee places which might be achieved. However, the
initial achievDemnts of the AIM Projram (next paragraph) appear to indicate a
substantial potential for work experience placements, including in small
enterprises.
The AIM Program
7.     In October 1990, the Government launched a new work experience program,
*Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilization' (AIm), which grew out of the
preparatory work for the proposed project. The AIM program is administered by
NTS, vith the goal of providing 10,000 work experience a year of 16 weeks
duration for unemployed youth. Assuming each available work experience
position could be utilized each year for two consecutive trainees, achLeving



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 5
Simulation Training Versus Work Experience Placement
It must be emphasized here that while creating simulated
work environments and situations for training purposes, as done in
YTEPP's 'intensive production, program, is very useful (and widely
used), this ought to be seen as a normal part of skills training
rather than as a substitute for real work experience which should
ideally enhance in trainees a much broader spectrum of skills,
especially in the sociallattitudinal and life skills areas. (The
extreme c&se of air pilot training in flight simulators comes to
mind. Here, pilots can be thoroughly trained in a very realistic
environment and in a wide range of skills, even including some they
could not train at all in real aircraft because of the risk
involved. But even that training would be wasted if a pilot did
not have an adequate attitude to work, for instance having the
habit to turn up in time for his flights).
To this extent, simulated work experience can be equal, and
even superior in some aspects, to actual work experience, as a
means to achieving broad ranges of skills; and since both available
work experience places and the number of placement officers will be
limited in the case of Trinidad and Tobago, such simulation
training--enhanced by the attitudinal and life skills training
components of the project--will have to be used as a substitute for
part of work experience to the extent possible and financially and
pedagogically justifiable. Yet and again, simulation training such
as the "intensive production' program does not amount to real work
experience; it is part of the skills training program; and it is
therefore not included in the project's work experience
subcomponent as described in this annex.
this quantitative goal would require NTB to identify and arrange for about
5,000 such positions to be made available in private firms and public
agencies. This is considered feasible since 5,000 positions would correspond
to less than 1.5 percent of the employed workforce.
8.     In order to launch the AIH program, NTB has recruited and trained 20
field counsellors and placement coordinators, who now operate out of seven AIM
centers in Trinidad (located in NTB offices and selected schools) and one in
Tobago based in the Education Office in Scarborough. For an initial pilot
program of placement (October through December 1990) applications were invited
by newspaper advertisements from graduates of a variety of education and
training programs including YTEPP. Initial experience of the pilot program
was reported by NTB to have been highly encouraging in terms of numbers of
trainees placed, particularly in small enterprises. An evaluation of the



- 71 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 4 of 5
pilot program is expected to be included in NTB's Annual Report for 1990 to be
issued in early 1991.
9.     Like earlier NTB placement programs, the AIM program provides for a
daily stipend of TT$20.00 to cover trainees' incidental costs, however,
employers are now expected to share the cost of this stipend with NTB on a
50/50 basis. This is causing problems with placement in some public agencies'
which can provide work experience positions but lack the budget to fund their
share of the stipend. Private employer's organizations have declared their
members' general willingness to fund their share of stipend costs.
10.    In view of NTB's experience in work experience placement and the
creation of the AIM program, NTB's and YTEPP's efforts in this area should be
coordinated, starting with the 1991192 YTEPP operating cycle, to achieve
maximum efficiency and impact. For this purpose, the two agencies have
drafted a formal agreement under which YTEPP subcontracts to NTB the annual
placement of at least 1,500 YTEPP graduates to be nominated by YTEPP. YTEPP
would assist in placement efforts, especially at the local level, through its
Area coordinators. In case of a shortage of placement positions, YTEPP
graduates would be given priority until 1,500 could be placed each year.
YTEPP would finance the Government's share (50 percent) of all stipends paid
to trainees nominated by YTEPP and placed in work experience by NTB, up to a
maximum of 1,500 placements per year. In addition, YTEPP would annually
transfer to NTB an amount of TT$330,000, or a pro-rated amount in case
placements do not reach 1,500 trainees, in order to reimburse NTB for its
administrative costs for placement and monitoring of YTEPP graduates. The
Government prepared and brought to negotiations the final draft agreement
between YTEPP and MOE on work experience placements for YTEPP trainees, which
the Bank reviewed and approved. As a condition of disbursement for the work
experience sub-component, Government will provide evidence of a signed
agreement between YTEPP and MOE.
Information to and Involvement of Enterprises
11.    Full 1j  -ipation by enterprises is a prerequisite for the sub-
component's s;.8ss.  As a first step in mobilizing enterprise support NTB
would, with the assistance of the work experience coordinator in YTEPP,
produce and distribute to all potentially participating enterprises a brochure
presenting the work experience subcomponent in the context of the YTEPP
program. NTB would then begin to contact employers' and enterprises' organi-
zations to rebuild its registry of possible work experience placement
offerings countrywide, and undertake such follow-up information activities as
may be necessary. These activities have already been started as part of the
pilot AIM program for 1990.
Costs and Financing
12.    Costs.  Based on annual placement of 1,500 nominees, the base costs of
the subcomponent would be as follows:



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 5 of 5
-----------------------------------------------------------_------------__---_
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995        Total
Government (TT$000)
Training Stipends (502)       1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200       6,000
NTB  (Administration)           330   330   330   330   330       1.650
YTEPP Costs                     100   100   100   100   100         500
Sub-Total (TT$000)            1,630 1,630 1,630 1,630 1,630       .150
Sub-Total (US$000)              384   384   384   384   384       1.920
Participating Enterprises and Public Agencies
Training Stipends (501)       1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200       6,000
Other Costs for Trainees'       300   300   300   300   300       1,500
Training (est. 25Z net)
Sub-Total (TT$000)            1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500       7.500
Sub-Total (US$000)              352   352   352   352   352       1.760
TOTAL (TT$000)                3,130 3,130 3,130 3,130 3,130      15.650
TOTAL (US$000)                  736   736   736   736   736       3.680
16.    Financing.  Based on the above (base) costs, the approximate financing
percentages, for this subcomponent alone, would be as followss
Percentage financed by Government (incl. Loan funds):   52.21 (US$1,920,000)
Percentage financed by Enterprises and Public Agenciess 47.81 (US$1,760,000)
TOTAL: 100.OZ (US$3,680,000)
17.    About half of the incremental cost for this program would be born by
enterprises. As shown in the above cost table, the effective incremental cost
to the enterprises includes an estimated training or supervision cost
amounting to 251 of stipend costs, or TT$2.50 per day per trainee. This
corresponds to 15 to 30 minutes a day of supervision by a senior worker, a
reasonable estimate considering the rather limited entry-level skills expected
in the average YTEPP-nominated trainee, even considering that presumably the
best qualified of YTEPP's graduates will be selected for work experience.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Self-Employment Sub-component
Background
1.        In view of Trinidad and Tobago's poor short-term prospects for
growth in employment, the YTEPP program has tried to encourage and assist
unemployed youth in creating their own employment and income generating
opportunities, utilizing the knowledge and job skills acquired before and
during their participation in the program. Youth graduating from YTEPP's
skills training courses and interested in self-employment have been encouraged
to enroll in YTEPP's self-employment program for training in business and for
assistance in securing loans to start their new businesses. In the first two
cycles, YTEPP made some progress in initiating the program. However, it has
not been able to realize the program's full potential. The main problems
encountered are: a) insufficiently defined curriculum and course design for
business training; b) little or no teaching materials and textbooks; c) no
tutor training; d) inaccessibility of credit for youth to start their own
businesses after training; and e) inadequate management for planning,
monitoring and supervision of the program.
2.        Following the appointment of a National Coordinator to take charge
of self-employment training in April 1990, YTEPP began to address some of
these problems. It produced and distributed a course syllabus and business
training manuals to course supervisors and tutors; actively recruited tutors
with practical business and/or business teaching experience; organized
orientation and training sessions for new tutors and supervisors; and it began
to counsel program graduates in contacting lending institutions for small
business loans. YTEPP attempted to promote this program and garner help from
the private sector. However, the business community is still largely
unfamiliar with YTEPP's aims and methods and how best to assist it.
3.   In order to address the problem of youth access to credit and insure
continued technical assistance for fledgling businesses, the Small Business
Development Company (SBDC), launched the Youth Enterprise Support System
(YESS) in September 1990.   This consortium includes cooperative banks,
commercial banks, and other financial institutions; and international and
local training institutes including YTEPP. The principal means of increasing
credit flow to youth is through the use of SBDC's newly devised Guarantee
Fund, whereby up to 85 percent of new business venture capital could be backed
by a pool of funds set aside for this purpose. YESS9s Secretariat at the SBDC
has begun promoting the program through advertising and by conducting
orientation sessions for loan officers. In the first few months, it recruited
some 700 youth for business seminars and personal counselling on preparing
business plans, with the ultimate aim of helping them get loans. Since YESS
was only recently created, it will need time and assistance to become fully



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 5
operational and assist youth in securing loans for the start-up of micro-
enterprises.
The Sub-Component
4.        The self-employment sub-component in the proposed project would: a)
assist YTEPP in improving its self-employment training program; and b) assist
the YESS Secretariat in achieving increased lending to youth for self-
employment schemes.
Self-Employment Training Program
5.        Under the proposed project, YTEPP would redesign, strengthen, and
standardize its self-employment training course. The course would maintain
the same three goals: 1) developing entrepreneurial traits; 2) developing
business management and operational skills, and 3) preparing business plans
and aiding in the loan application process. But course structure and content
will be improved, as will linkages to private business and to post-training
support.
6.        As of April 1991, the program plans to double the number of class
hours per week and offer its 140 hours of classroom training previously given
over 33-37 weeks in half that time. This will allow the program to offer two
4-month training cycles, to be test piloted in April-May 1991 and again in
August-September 1991. Furthermore, trainees would be required to work at
least 100 hours outside of the classroom learning business skills in their own
or another's business. Student applicants who have or have not graduated from
YTEPP's job skills training program would be screened by a panel to make sure
they possess applicable skills, ideas, and determination. Initial plans are
to train 2,000 youth annually under a student to tutor ratio of approximately
16:1; the target figure would be reviewed and adjusted during annual program
evaluations. The project would also help YTEPP purchase teaching materials,
instructional equipment and organize pre-and in-service training for some 50
tutors and eight supervisors. It would also help finance tutor salaries and
related instructional materials.
7.        Self-employment training modules will support program goals.
First, they will help trainees to strengthen traits necessary for running a
successful business such as setting goals, seeking opportunities, and taking
moderate risks. Second, they will teach those skills necessary for setting up
and operating a business such as costing, cash flow analysis, marketing, and
bookkeeping while trainees practice such skills outside the classroom. In
addition, trainees would be required to conduct a feasibility study. Finally,
these modules would help trainees to complete business plans and approach
financial institutions. At this stage, trainees would be introduced to YESS,
and those ready for loans would be aided in obtaining them.
8.        The proposed project would assist YTEPP in the following ways.
First, it would provide 3 weeks of technical assistance to improve the design
of its self-employment curriculum and develop instructional materials. This



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 3 of 5
curriculum would be prepared during the first four months of 1991 for use in
the first new training cycle. The project would also provide technical
assistance to introduce formal pre- and in-service tutor training workshops
for the approximately 50 tutors and 8 course supervisors. The three day pre-
service workshop would familiarize tutors with the curriculum and successful
methods for teaching about business.   Furthermore, it would review how to use
training tools such as audio-visual aids. The two one-day in-service training
workshops equal.ly spaced during the training cycle would focus on pedagogical
issues, counselling and other concerns, and review and preview of curriculum.
Youth Enterprise Support System (YESS)
9.        The proposed project would assist the YESS Secretariat in the SBDC
tot a) devise and implement efficient procedures for reviewing and referring
loan proposals to YESS credit institutions; b) plan and implement a more
vigorous marketing and training program for loan officers on the special
requirements of lending to youth micro-enterprises; and c) establish an
information system for the collection and dissemination of data on loans and
technical advisory services for young entrepreneurs in starting their
businesses.
10.       The assistance to the YESS Secretariat would be provided over a
three-year period, under a contract between YTEPP and SBDC. This contract
would consist oft two locally recruited full-time specialists, one to help
the Secretariat devise and implement procedures for reviewing and referring
loan proposals to YESS credit institutions; the other for planning marketing
and training programs for loan officers and establishing an information
system. One of the specialists would be based at FUNDAID, the financial arm
of the training institute, SERVOL, which is already recognized as the leader
in youth lending initiatives and expected to make the greatest number of youth
loans under the YESS program. The other specialist would work out of the
SBDC. The project also would provide technical assistance to the Secretariat
over a three-month period to help develop training materials for loan officers
and run workshops to train both loan officers and YESS and FUNDAID staff for
carrying on this training.
11.       Under the proposed contract between YTEPP and SBDC, the SBDC would
agree to undertake the necessary measures to strengthen the Secretariat and to
support its activities carried out on behalf of YESS member institutions.
These measures would include: a) recruiting a full-time Administrator and
other staff needed to manage the YESS program efficiently; b) making SBDC
staff available to YNSS on part-time basis, if and when needed, and providing
the necessary logistical support to the Secretariat; c) devising and
implementing procedures for reviewing business plans and referring loan
applicants to appropriate financial and training institutions; d) clarifying
loan guarantee policies and procedures specific to YESS activities and
informing credit institutions; e) establishing a data base on YESS advisory
and financial services and loan recipients; f) holding regular training
workshops with loan officers in all financial institutions in order to promote
the YESS Network, which includes explaining the SBDC guarantee mechanism, and



- 76 -
ANNEX 3. 6
Page 4 of 5
teaching officers how to analyze the needs of new business ventures and advise
their youth clients; and g) preparing periodic reports on YESS and on the
implementation of the contract for YTEPP.
12.       The YESS would develop annual work plans and targets for its
lending activities to coincide with those developed by YTEPP under the
proposed project. After three months of preparing training material and
delivering pilot workshops, the revised workshop for loan officers and
institutions should be fully operationcl by mid-1991. The workshops of 15
persons would be given regionally to the 118 branches of commercial banks, 300
credit unions, ard other financial institutions. It is expected that each
loan officer would participate in workshops bi-annually for the three years
of the YESS project. Furthermore, it is estimated that YESS would facilitate
approximately 1,800 loans during the three years, given that all mechanisms
are fully functional and loan and guarantee pools are augmented as expected.
SBDC already has TT$l million (US$235,000) for its guarantee fund, donated by
the National Gas Company for YTEPP business projects. The Cooperative
Development Bank has pooled TT$l million (US$425,000) from its members for
loans to youth. FUNDAID will be receiving US$500,000 fcr lending from the
Inter-American Development Bank. FUNDAID would expect to make some 300 loans
by 1992; the Cooperative Development Bank would make an additional 100 loans
by that time, and the commercial banks who are still unaccustomed to youth
lending would be expected to make approximately 50 loans.
Role of the Private Sector
13.       The private business sector must play an active role in this self-
employment sub-component.   YTEPP and YESS are attempting to mobilize its
support but more must be done, particularly by YTEPP. The Chambers of
Commerce, the Manufacturing Association, and other business groups have
expressed strong interest in supporting the program, but the aims and methods
of YTEPP and the best vehicles for lending private sector support needs
further clarification. Various means were attempted informally by YTEPP's
course supervisors and tutors level. These included: a) guiding youth in
preparing their business plans; b) benefitting youth in training with first-
hand knowledge about business by lecturing to classes and sponsoring visits to
businesses and seminar , and c) considering joint ventures with young
entrepreneurs by suggesting products and servLces needed by their concerns and
offering technical advice while businesses catering to these needs are being
established. Part of the YESS concept is to establish a network of active and
retired business persons willing to advise youth. But YTEPP must formalize
linkages through the National Coordinator's office by first explaining and
better promoting the YTEPP program to business associations and individual
businesses, and then by reaching agreements with the private sector on
alternatives to and mechanisms for partnership.
14.       The project is facilitating the crucial link between the self-
employmnt program and the private sector. The YTEPP self-employment program
personnel are collaborating with YTEPP's Partnership Program, which would



77 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 5 of 5
receive salary support from the project. In addition, the project would
support hiring of an assistant to the National Coordinator, whose terms of
reference would include working with the private sector on behalf oi the
program. Furthermore, the project would support the development of
promotional materials targeted to the private sector. The newly appointed
YTEPP Board of Directors should greatly facilitate needed linkages; it is
composed of a number of persons from private business concerned with gaining
private business support for the program. The different interested YTEPP
parties are devising a strategy and plan of action for instituting mechanisms
whereby private business will actively participate in YTEPP's self-employment
program.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4.1
rose I of 1
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EPLOYMfENT PROJECT
Sumsry Account by Pro3lct Component
(US$ mlillon)
Com.n.nts
Education A   Post-tro1ning    Managemet      TOTAL
Catogorioe of Expenditures        Training      Aseistanceo     Strongtehning
Technical Ameistanco                 0.3            0.1            0.6          0.9
Equipment/Furniture                  2.6            -              0.7          3.2
Training                            0.3             0.1            -            0.9
Materials A Supplies                 1.9            0.1            0.2          2.2
Salarlis                             7.8            0.6            4.1         12.4
Administration                      0.7             0.4            2.7          t.8
Supervision                          2.6            0.2            0.1          2.3
Stipends                             -              1.4            -            1.4
Total Baseline Costs             16.5             2.8            8.3         27.6
Physical Contlngoncioe                      -               -                    -
Price Contingencies                  2.5            0.5            1.3          4.3
Total Prolect Costs               19.0            3.3            9C6          31.9



- 79 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of .
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sum&ary
(US$ million)
Categories of Expenditures                    Local    Foreign    Total
Technical Assistance                            0.7        0.2       0.9
Zquipment/Furniture                             0.6        2.6        3.2
Training                                        0.9        -         0.9
Materials and Supplies                          1.4        0.8        2.i
Salaries                                      12.4         -        12.4
Administration                                  3.8        -          3.8
Supervision                                    2.8         -         2.8
Stipends                                       1.4         -         1.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        24.0         3.6      27.7
Physical Contingencies                          -          -         -
Price Contingencies                             3.9        0.4       4.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         28.0         4.0      31.9



- 80 -
ANNEX 4.8
Page I of 1
REPIULBC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PMOJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY YEAR
(USS milIIon)
COMPONENTS                     190      19       1902    19i8      1904    1906       TOTAL
Education A Trainin             0.1      4.4      8.7      8.9      8.4      8.5      19.0
Post-training Assistane         -        0.6      0.0     0.6       0.7      0.7       5.8
Marnage cnt Str.ngtb ning       0.1      2.0      2.0      1.S      1.6      1.9       9.6
Total Proloct Cost.           7C.0               6.S     6.-       5.9 _.2           *1.9
Table 2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
(USS mlillIon)
CATEGORY OF EXENDITURES        190     1901    19m       1998     1994    1996    TOTAL
Technical Asitance              -        0.5      0.2     0.2       0.1      0.2       1.0
Equipment/Furnlture                      1.6      1.0      0.0      0.1      0.1       8.4
Training                        -        0.2      0.2     0.2       0.2      0.2       1.0
Material. A Suppil              -        0.       0.4     0.6       0.6      0.6       2.7
Salaries                        0.2      2.6      2.       2.9      8.0      8.0      14.5
Adiniestration                  -        0.6      0.6      0.9      0.9      1.0       4.4
Supervision                     -0.6              0.      0.7      0.7      0.7       8.8
Stipends                        -        0.8      0.8      0.8      OS.      0.4       1.6
Totel Project Cot            __       7.2 



- 81 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Project HanaRement and Implementation
A. Proiect Hanagement Structure
1.        The project would be managed under the authority of the Board of
Directors of the Youth Training and Employment Partnership (YTEPP), Ltd. The
YTEPP was incorporated on October 10, 1990 under the Companies Ordinance
Chapter 31 No. 1 of the laws of Trinidad and Tobago. The YTEPP Board of
Directors would provide overall policy guidance and supervision of project
implementation. The Board would convene regularly with the YTEPP Executive
Director to assist him, as required, in the planning, implementation, and
monitoring of project activities. The Executive Director of YTEPP would be
responsible for day to day coordination of project implementation and serve as
the Project Director. As a condition of effectiveness, Government will enter
into an agreement with YTEPP, Ltd. for the transfer of the proceeds of the
loan on a grant basis; and for the commitment by YTEPP, Ltd. to the objectives
of the project and implementation of the activities thereof.
2.        The Executive Director would be supported by a team of four senior
managers selected on the basis of experience and technical expertise. A
Director-Administration and Technical Support Services would be responsible
for all project financial and administrative matters and would supervise three
Departmentst Finance and Administration, Public Relations and Marketing, and
Research and Evaluation. The Executive Director would be directly responsible
for the overall management of YTEPP's education and training programs with
three National Coordinators, one each for Career Enhancement, Job Skills
Training and Community-Based Projects and Post-Training Support. The
Coordinators would manage their respective programs directly.
3.        Project field activities would be managed by a team of 8 full-time
Area Administrators, one for each District; 44'part-time Center Managers, 18
Senior Course Supervisors, and 146 Course Supervisors; Area Administrators
wo nld be responsible for all field-level administrative matters and report to
the Director-Administrations Senior Course Supervisors and Course Supervisors
would provide technical support and supervision to tutors and report to their
respective National Coordinators on program matters. Job descriptions have
been prepared for All YTEPP managers and staff and approved by the Bank.
(Refer Attachmentt YTEPP's Organization Chart).
B. Proiect Management Responsibilities
4.        The YTEPP has prepared an Administrative Manual which will be used
to guide project implementation. The administrative policies and procedures



- 82 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 2
for implementation have been appraised by the Bank and judged to be
appropriate. However, it can be expected that revisions will be made in the
Administrative Manual on the basis of experience during project
implementation. The Government brought to negotiations the final draft of the
YTEPP Administrative Manual, which was reviewed and approved by the Bank.
5.        The procedures for procurement of goods and services would meet
Bank requirements and as noted in Annex 7.1, the international procurement
agent recruited for the project would follow World Bank procurement policies.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will provide evidence that
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, will have been worked out
with the procurement agent. The financial policies and procedures would also
be acceptable to the Bank. YTEPP would be expected to follow sound procedures
for affecting project payments at the local level and monitoring expenditures.
C. Supervision and Monitoring Procedures
6.        YTEPP has established a system for supervision and monitoring of
project implementation acceptable to the Bank. The system would permit
regular monitoring of progress in the implementation of all project components
and sub-components, both materially and financially. The YTEPP central
management team would be responsible for project monitoring and supervision
with the assistance of Area Administrators, Course Supervisors, and Center
Managers. The monitoring and supervision of project implementation would be
done through reports and field reviews which would be carried out on a
regular and continuous basis. A provision of the Loan Agreement requires
YTEPP to develop the reporting format for all field and central management
staff by September 1, 1991. It also requires YTEPP to complete the
preparation of more detailed qualitative and quantitative indicators for
project monitoring using the key indicators in Annex 5.3 as a point of
departure. Project funds are provided to cover the costs of internal travel
by managers and field level staff for monitoring and supervision purposes.
7.        The Executive Director (Project Director) would submit semi-annual
reports to the Board of Directors and the Bank on project implementation,
identifying progress, calling attention to implementation bottlenecks and
issues, and proposing solutions. The Board of Directors would also review
once a year, planned implementation schedules in relation to budget
allocations to identify any problems.
8.        The Bank would assist YTEPP with project start up, jointly
assessing with the YTEPP team, the suitability of proposed strategies and work
plans for project implementation in each project component. Thereafter, Bank
review missions would be conducted semi-annually to assess implementation
progress.



TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
YOUTH TRADIG AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME (YTEPP LTD.)
HE'I
We mcie _pT 
SUPPGATSERVICAS
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 _                    p.egz.. 2)         :     
ASWXrr          NOINC-RIM                im ORLL         NOMC-01OO    OR'''0-MO
~~~~~~~~. . . . .              . . .   J. . .........1 ...S..... 
r                         -  -r-    ----    -                            -    '
2..                                                                      ....   ..
:~~~~~~~ au^EW:                                                         *n
....    . ..
*FACUrXOM                                                                NfrvTn
.. . . . ...                     . . .. .                                 . .. . . .  
*                                                                      S-v    VOFC



TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
YOUTH TRAtNG AND EMPLOYMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME (YTEPP LTD.)
DWECTO
HIOF                        W .OF              H r- F
iaerosynm        I            FMM11 I  I    A                       EV MTION
OFFICER  OFFICOFFR I                           OFFi
OF.    I  .44                O
S.........
S   ;71'''S_'   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l   l' Z l l~~~~~~~~m                                              T
1J~
_,^~~11u
o III.



TRINIDAD O TOBAGO
EDUCATION MO    INING FOR YOUT EL           PROJECT
IMlEM ATION SCHEDULE
llon..r 1990 - Deeme 1991
unit
_ fcteealb"Jectiv                       Roonsiblo                             Action Measure                          Target Date
Education aad Tralaism Coment
A. C li  Redi al Eduetlee
a" carar Ert
1. Establish carer comoellag               Carser Enhane.      -  Develop guide. for caree cousslig.                     1/9t4/
s.                                     Coordinator (CEC)  -  Owelop and produce counseling mterials
and local             fer key sill armse.
cosultant         -  Print diagnootic materials.                            C/91
-  Train  00 aN  zselt 200 totor/career                  7/91
counelors.
-  Counsel 90000 appllcante.                             */91
2. Strengts literacy and wmuracy           CEC/local           -  Delop tralinrig materials for me  by                   1/91-3/91
skiIls traaing.                        consltent               asistant -tralnrs.
-  Oelop booklets in rnding, writing aN  _mt.            1/91-7/91
-  Train 100 end hire 90 trais mg anletent               2/91-3/91
for ttoring In the remedial liter    Nd
snmeracy progrm. Train 5 locI r=edi
reource A   reedial mth teeche  ever I month.
S. Uprade qality aN  o_pen  carer          CEC/local           _  Ads  a  prodc entrepreneurship testing                1/91-2/91
e _  em t tralinin                     consultant          -  Evalvate naw currical. is sod ltdify/adapt to    2/91 4/91
Trinidad and Tobago.
*              -  Develop tutor manals and produe 400 for  tlesing.    2/91-4/91
* -  TesT am  CE tutor manul.s is the clmro.m.                           4/91-7/91
*              -  Develop tralne l  maals sod produce 400 for teeting.  5/91-7/91
*              -  Test ass train    manas In the cilasrom.               8/91-5/92
CEC & 10 local     -  Pre-mrvico train  00 tWtonrs with ne  surrielm         6/91-7/91
experte               m*trials an  hire CE tore s for 2 seeks.
CEC/local          -  Ia-servIe train 400 ttors, 2 days per moeth and        9/91-6/92        .
consultant             we sessions to montor  ctivltie .                                     MI
4. PrFer imt of qpipmmt                    CEC A procr-        -  Procure key  uipm" t for 9 centors for material
_mt agey               prepsration and -srwvlo training.
staff



unit
FctiemlAlective                          Resomelbl*                            Actien Messure                            Target   t.
S. Job Skillo Traiine
1. Cemlete development of course            Job Training        -  Contract subject mtter spocialists-ensoltaats            12/90
ell labi A devep complete               Coordinator             to prepare syllabi for all course  end clusters.
le"arl     Idea (teak shets, data          (JTC)            -  Monitor consultants'worl; oassmble *ad print la          3/91
shees  Job d_oet) for *al  job                                  adqp    quantities; distribute to agg relevant
*hills training covrse  A clvusrs,                              staff and tutors.
JTC              -  Contract cosuwltants for preperation of learning        3/91
-  Monitor productlio  & copletion of loorning             6/91
guides; a        sal ad print In adquate quantities;
distribute to all relevant staff A tutors.
2. Derlop emd print Certificates of         JTC/NIB             -  Comploet Job analysoe A draft certificate                6/91
Acquired Cempt4wecies for all Job                               certifications.
skills training coure  A celaters.                          -  Review specifications with e*ntrprie                     9/91
representatIves In NiB.
-  Completo  aod print Certificateo  In adequate           12/91
quntitlie.
S. Proe"r eNd Install training              JTC/UE              -  See separat  procur ont schedule.
eqipmwt A csomsble m_terials.
4. Imple t syste  for quipmnt               JTC/IOE             -  Complot agrment on training equipment                    2/91
m_intsnoen    A supply of cosm_ble                              maintenance proedures and responsibilitios.
materials to center and community-                           -  Develop and loplemet systm for receipt,                 4/91
bseod cour.                                                     storags, * distributlon to centers of consumable
m*terlals for YTEPP Job skill  traIning coures.
S. Recrult end train all necossry Job        JTC               -  Recrult job skills tutors for all center-based           7/91
skill trinlog twutors.                                        courses (404) A all co munity-based course  ( )
for 1991-92 proram.
-  Tr in all tvtors on new YTEPP program, syllabi A        8/91
learnin guldes for Job skills training.
Poet-T4ranll  Ssert Comoonent
A.  orki Eei                                                                                                                                    0N
1. Implm _t ne work experience              Post-Training       -  Complete and sign a formal agroment between              12/90          ^
progrm (AIM Progra).                    Coordinator (PTC)       YTEPP A NTB for Implementation of prograu for
and NIB                YTEPP graduatent.
N18              -  Train and post 25 plaement officers.                    12/90



Unit
Functlie/Oblectivo                      Responsiblo                            Action Mesbure                          Taroet Date
PTC              -  Establish  nd implement eriteria for selection          12o90
of YTEPP graduates for AIM.
NTB              -  Complete inventory of work experionce opport-          6/91
unities for at least 2,000 trainee..
NTB              -  Complot place_mt of 1,000 YTEPP traInot.               8/91
NTB              -  Complete placemnt of another 1,600 YTEPP trainees.   /J92
NTB/PTC             -  Firot full annual report on work experi                3/92
plwa_mnt of YTEPP traineo.
B. Self-Employmnt (SE)
1. Improve SE training progrm.                 PTC              -  Hire full-tim  assistant for PTC.                      1/91
PTC              -  Prepar  revisW curriculum for  m four-month            )1/904/91
course with help of consultant (a).
PTC              -  Pla  traliing & hold In-service workshops for tutors  3/91-7/91
and supervisors on ne curriculum.
PTC              -  Purchas traIning mterials an  dissemInate for          4/914/91
course.
PTC              -  Devise selection procedures for trainee..              3/91.4/91
PTC              -  Anilyze outcme of self-employment trainilg             7/91-9/91
Research a              is 1990-91 cycle.
Evaluation Unit.
PTC              -  Pilot Trickle Up grants with 2-3 coordiaters.          1/91-12/92
PTC              -  Solidify links with private bsinoes.                   Onong.o
2. Assist the Youth Enterprise Support      PTC/SSDC            -  Finall  agreement betwee  YTEPP  SIDC to mist    1l91                  w    I
Systm.                                                          ESS. 
SUOC/FWDAID/        -  Provide support (2 persns) for loea  proeceing         11/90-1/91 
YTEPP               retirement of business plane, A cenel log of
applicants.
-  Prepre Stat nt oe YESS's procedu re  for               1/91-2/91
reviewing and referring loam proposals.



unit
nftlelObictvo                           Ronil                                 Action IMebsre                          Tersot Do"
-  D lop tralinin  for loon Officers of VE    last)-      1/91-12/91
tattoos aN  oremize workshp.
-Estblish Information system for *ESS.                    6/91-12/91
SE/SDC            -  Set up ski I* beok of busines, profsials,              1/91-2/91
retires, and lnstitutions willing to help yout
in their saw busime.
SE              -  IMoitor VESS contract.
1. Increas public awarenes and                PTC              -  Mboe publicity &ad trlaing                             11/904/91
undsrstanding of ITEPP self-employment                         ilm  as TEP'.
progrom goals end activities.
PTC             -  Premot YTEPP SE program.                                12/90-1/91
- Start up weekly radio
- Detign, print sad distribut SE brochwr              1/91 a ongoin
-  Initiat discesions for a T.V. progrm on youtA   1/91
PTC             -  Di scu  SE progr  In lTEPP Job skill  cl  am.          3/91
C. Mmenmement Stroesthentig
1. Streongthe    nag9mnt *nd staffing      ITEPP Board         -  Recruit staff for nwly estabisetd administrativo    11/90-1/91
of YTEPP.                                                      progrm m     emenw t position: Director of
Administration, Heod of Finane *nd Administration
Section, Head of Public Relation  and Mrketing and
Director Program Operations.
SSU/YTEPP          -  Ceplkte preparation of Administrative and              12/90
Finncial Manual.
MOW/"TE,?          -  Imple_ent required tmprovemotk  ln progron             2/91-8/1_
budgting ad financial contracts.
2. Itprove mTrPPrs  aattoring and            YlEP              -  Develop and ipplen_t Improe  systm for                 12/90-1/91
evaluation of the progrm activities                            mittoring and reporting on program ativities and
and their topact                                               output by YTEPP staff at all levels.
YVEPr            -  Recruit consultants to eassit YTEPP In plannig         1/91
*ad implemeting tracer stee a4 ota her
evaluations.
VIEP             -  Complete the processing and mlyois of data on          3/91-5/91
trainees copleting the trainrig cycle (1999-90) and
on thos0 enrollod tn the current cycle.



unit
Functlon/Ob].ctive                       Responsible                           Action Masuro                           Target Date
S. Develop Improved labor mrkoet Information   SSU              -  Prper. 61 annual reports on the labor markets,          1/91 a 6-7/91
for planning YTEPP training activities                          employment prospects, sod education sod training
and guiding trainees                                            system outputs.
SSU            -  Prpare and disseminate Informtion to YTEP?             6/91-7/91
trains  on self-employment experiomen  of youth.
u1



90 -
ANNEX 6.S
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TObAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
YTEPP - Key Indicators and Outputs for Monitoring and Evaluatlon
an =uzuss-_u               z  SYU U                                                     U
COMPONENTS A INDICATORS              1991        1992       1993       1994      1099      TOTAL
uua=*== xzzumuuu-----------
I. GENERAL
1.1 Totil No. of applicants         18,000     12,000      12,000     12,000    12,000    61,000
1.2  Tot.l No. of trainoes          10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000    10,000    50,000
1.8  Total No. of greduetes          $,500      8,C00       9,000      9,000     9,000    44,000
CAREER ENHANCEMENT TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT
2.1 No. of counsellors hired
and trained                       200        200         200        200       200     1,000
2.2 No. of applicants given
diagnostic tests                8,000      9,000      10,000     10,000    10,000    47,000
2.3 No. of trainees comploting:
- career nhancement             9,000      9,000     10,000      10,000    10,000    48,000
- specal& tutoring In
literacy A numeracy           1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000     1,000     5,000
2.4  No. of tutors hired A trained     450        460         SOO        500       600     2,400
JOB SKILLS TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT
Center-based Training
8.1  No. of tutors hired A tralned     570        580         680        580        6o0    2,890
3.2 No. of now curriculum guideo
 job shoots producod             670         35           -          -         -       605
8.8 No. of centers provided
equipment (X Installation)                    48          48         43        48       172
3.4  No. of trainees certitfid       7,500      7,600       7,600      7,600     7,600    87,600
COMMUNITY-BASED TRAINING
4.1 No. of trainoes                    826       1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000     4,825
4.2  No. of projects                    66         150        150        1SO      10        666
4.3  No. of tutors                      66         150        150        160       150       655
4.4  No. of graduates                  500         760        800        800       800     8,660
WORK EXPERIENCE/POST-TRAINING COMPONENT II
6.1 No. of work *xperience
placements                      1,600      1,500       1,500      1,600     1,600     7,60C
TRAINING AND SUPPORT FOR SELF-EMPLOYMENT SUBCOMPONENT
6.1 No. of trainees                  2,000       2,500      2,600      2,500     2,600    12,000
8.2 No. of tutors hired i trained       0o          50         50         50        s0       260
6.8 No. of trainees who complete
self-employment proposals         700      2,000       2,000      2,000     2,000     8,700
6.4 No. of financial institutions
providing credit for youth
enterprises                         5           6          6          5         5        26
MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING COMPONENT III
7.1 LMIS reports produced                2           4          4          4         4        18
7.2  Tracer studies completed            2           1          1          -         1         6
7.8 Special evaluation studies
completed                           2          2           2          2         2        10
uuuuuuuzuusm_za_                                                                             =



ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 1
EPMU LIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJZCT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan Amount
Catesory                            (US$ million)           Disbursement
1. Zquipscnt, furniture,                                1001 of expenditures
materials and supplies                 5.8
2. Tutors training, students                            1001 of expenditures
stipends and supervision               5.7
3. Staff and tutor salaries               7.7           1002 of expanditures
4. Technical assistance                   0.8           1002 of expenditures
5. Unallocated                            0.7           *



- 92 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPKEOENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
SOLE           Dsfbursements          lated Disbursements  Undisburmed Balance
Semester
Ending         Amount    X          Amount          X          Amount    X
EM
June 30        2.1        10         2.1             10        18.6      90
E=
December 31    1.2        6          3.3             16        17.4      84
June 30         2.1       10         5.4             26        15.3       74
EM
December 31    2.1        10         7.5             36        13.2      64
June 30         2.1       10         9.6             46        11.1       54
December 31    2.1        10         11.7            56         9.0      43
June 30         2.1       10         13.8            66         6.9       33
December 31    2.1        10         15.9            76         4.8      23
June 30         2.1       10         18.0            86         2.7       13
December 31    2.1        10         20.1            96         0.6        3
June 30        0.6         3         20.7           100          -
Project Completion Date - December 31, 1995
Project Closing Date - June 30, 1996



- 93 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Procurement Services
Terms of Reference
1.     The Youth Training and Employment Partnership Program, Ltd. (YTEPP) is
the implementing agency for a World Bank Education and Training for Youth
Employment project. The overall aim of the project is to help strengthen and
implement YTEPP which offers remedial education, job skills, entrepreneurship
training and other support services to unemployed youth to enhance their
employability and self-employment prospects during the current period of
economic adjustment. The World Bank project provides support for the
procurement of equipment and materials for upgrading the resources of some 44
training centers and technical assistance to YTEPP in the form of auvisory
services for program management, design and implementation of training
activities, and monitoring and evaluation.
2.     YTEPP needs assistance to carry out the procurement tasks under the
proposed project efficiently. It therefore is seeking the assistance of an
international procurement agent to help it with inter alia the following
tasks:
(a) Preparation and submission for approval of tender documents, and
the review and minor revision of equipment packages and technical
specifications, in accordance with World Bank Sample Bidding
Documents and Procurement Guidelines.
(b) Arranging the placing of advertisements for tenders in appropriate
publications (preparation of lists of bidders from responses to
advertisements, if appropriate).
(c) Issuing of Tenders.
(d) Opening of tenders review for compliance with tender documents, and
evaluation.
(e) Submission of results of evaluation and recommendation of contract
award to YTEPP management.
(f) Formalization of contracts, as may be requested, based on
recommendations and approval of YTEPP, and receipt of *no
objection" from the World Bank.
(g) Expediting deliveries from suppliers.



- 94 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 2
(h) Arranging shipment and insurance (and inspection where
appropriate).
(i) Checking of invoices and recommending payment to suppliers.
(j) Provide monthly status reports on procurement to YTEPP.
3.     The Procurement Agent will liaise as mutually agreed directly with
YTEPP's Procurement Officer and others in carrying out the aforementioned
tasks.



ANNEX 7.2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Proposed Equipment Procurement Schedule
1.    In view of the on-going training activities of YTEPP and the resulting
urgency for rapid procurement of priority equipment needs for the training
centers, it is necessary that an accelerated procurement process be quickly
initiated and implemented. Consequently, the following schedule is proposed:
Schedule Dates
Procurement Cycle Phase and Activity                          Beginning   Ending
Preparation Phase:
1.    Preparation of master lists and specifications,            03/90      2/91
and forward to Bank for commuents and approval.
2.    Preparation of advertising and bidding documents,          11/90      4/91
in full accordance with Bank guidelines, and
forward to Bank for its commuents and approval.
(an international procurement contractor would
prepare these if Government agrees to contract
with them to carry out the bidding process.) CTB
would approve draft advertisement for ICB and local
tenders.
3.    Advertise tender in local periodicals and in the                     3/91
Development Business. (Bank will handle the latter.)
4.    Prepare the final detailed specifications, taking          7/90      3/91
into consideration the Bank's coments, and group
items into homogeneous packages for reproduction
in quantity.
5.    Reproduction of equipment packages in sufficient        11/90 1st    4/91
quantities for the number of registered suppliers             2nd    6/91
requesting bidding documents and equipment packages.
(Phased over two or more tenders.)
Implementation Phase:
6.    Forward bidding documents and equipment packages              1st    5/91
to registered suppliers who have requested and                2nd    7/91
paid for same.



- 96 -
ANNEX 7.2
Page 2 of 2
Schedule Dates
Procurement Cycle Phase and Activity                           Beginning   Ending
7.    Closing of tender and opening of bids. (CTB will              1st      8/91-
do this for local tenders.)                                   2nd    10/91-
8.    Bid evaluation and preparation of recommendations              1st    10/91
for award.  (YTEPP would be responsible for bid               2nd    12/91
evaluation of local tenders.) Forward bid evaluation
summary sheets and recommendations for award to
Bank and Central Tenders Board for review and
approval.
9.    Signing of contracts with award winners.                       1st    11/91
2nd     1/92
10.   Equipment order filling and delivery period.                  1st      2/92
2nd     4/92
Reception and Installation Period:
11.   Receiving equipment shipments at Port-of-Spain;               1st      3/92
clearance of customs; and delivery to YTEPP                   2nd     5/92
bonded warehouse for insurance inspection.
12.   Delivery to training centers and installation                 1st      4/92
in shops and laboratories.                                    2nd     6/92
13.   Preparation of inventory of equipment placed in               1st      4/92
each of the training centers.                                 2nd     6/92
14.   Conducting equipment maintenance and repair seminar.          1/92    3/92



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1. Report of a Mission to Trinidad and Tobago, 17 April-. 6 May 1989,
Jean-Michel Bazinet, Interregional Adviser on Youth Policies and
Programme.
A.2.  The Youth of Trinidad and Tobago, A Statistical Profile, Norma
Abdulah, March, 1988.
A.3.  Restructuring for Economic Independence Medium-Term Macro-Planning
Framework, 1989-95, National Planning Commission, 1990.
A.4.  "Poverty Revisited: Trinidad and Tobago in the late 1980s', Ralph
M. Henry and Juliet Melville (Paper read at Regional Conference on
New Directions in Caribbean Social Policy", March, 1989).
A.5.  Education Plan 1985-90, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Ministry
of Education, 1985.
A.6.  Statistics on Public Education, 1986-87, Ministry of Education.
A.7.  The Manpower and Employment Planning Subsystem in Trinidad and
Tobago, 1976 Programa Regional del Empleo para America Latina y el
Caribe, (PREALC), ILO.
A.8.  Vocational Training in Trinidad and Tobago, 1972, Ministry of
Planning and Development, National Training Board.
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1.  Report of the Cabinet-Appointed Youth Training and Employment
Committee, January, 1988.
B.2.  Report on the First Phase of The Youth Training and Employment
Partnership Programme, May, 1989.
B.3.  Articles of Association of The Youth Training and Employment
Partnership Programme, Ltd., 1990.



CA- '~8~Ah -                  a                                                                                P
S  7r                       U                           /.     2  s 7   DiqoMa,t . 4.f   fA/5 A-t--.3 
i'   aa _-bo; Chupvra^tl. Rbnch,s$  I1 Ri..ero
. C A YP  8        , . PI                                                      tM;                                                                                     Toco C. .             )
Po.t MacorOp S..    Mr S                S' 'r r ST
TRtINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                     tt7t*.                    .                     /       pcrwo                          5
YOUTH TINING  FOR EMPLOYMENT                                                                                            A s
LOCATIO  OF YFTEP C EwNTENRS AND NUMBER                                                                    s>                       r7i5          < <t499tn\
1989-1990 c5un5lXgr   
*        Undert 2007 participantsoaihroSC                                                                      r      t     4             
*         2t00!iOC7 prartciprants*5r9.                                                     ?C7ahqm ~ \,    7s ,                          j<      t     7        |
*         Over 500 port cipnts                                                  I        > Kfepv\                       s                             r
;S.       Juniozr Secondary CuoJ      
C.        CompOsitecfr                                                                                                                    ,,crrmJ/}
G.s.       Go7vernme.nt Secondary                                       PitLisas         9                                 N        ~77,i\
-          MA&in Roads                                                                j P
- .  Secondary Roada~~~~mno$L                                                                                                                                                    0,01
AG      Airporhs 5t                                                                                                                             AM
o       5       ta      IU      20z     o 25    *      ssigny lCTOSa rr  .  1
;7 MILO|S                              15  I    S.    PoinWt or7tin S.Chc  .   _/'fyro'' od 
c,a,Qse. Gfq~~~~~~~~~~ipnvia S . A RC.,                             l Te-  - ;                                                                   GoloIts} Pr
Fullorto * } oSc.,r.s  t 144<M rgo  oo
19       S9O'                       6 9O 903O'                                                    6120                           i-10'                         61-0'
_   {  .   .   t   _  -         - -         - -       --                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST lffO



