Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3328 TR
       (Education and Training for Youth Employment Project)
                              between
                  REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 29, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3328 TR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD
AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "AIM" means Apprenticeship for Industrial Mobilization,
a program established by the Borrower on September 6, 1990,
currently administered by NTB;
      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Trinidad and
Tobago;
      (c)   "Charter" means YTEPP Ltd.'s articles of incorporation,
dated October 10, 1990;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
      (e)   "LMIS" means Labor Market Information System, a system
established by the Borrower under the Social Sector Unit of the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Mobilization;
      (f)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (g)   "NTB" means the National Training Board, a division of
the Borrower's MOE which advises on policies and sets standards of
certification for technical and vocational education and training;
      (h)   "Program" means the Borrower's Youth Training and
Employment Partnership Program, established by the Borrower on
May 12, 1988;
      (i)   "SBDC Ltd." means Small Business Development Company
Limited, a public enterprise, established under the laws of the
Borrower and which is wholly-owned by the Borrower;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and YTEPP Ltd. pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "TT$" means the Borrower's currency unit;
      (m)   "YESS" means Youth Enterprise Support System, a network
of commercial banks, credit unions and other financial institutions
organized under the aegis of SBDC Ltd. which provides loans to young
entrepreneurs for small businesses; and
      (n)   "YTEPP Ltd." means Youth Training and Employment
Partnership Program Limited, a public enterprise, established under
the laws of the Borrower and which is wholly-owned by the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million and seven hundred thousand dollars
($20,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
Page  3
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause YTEPP Ltd., pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary
Agreement, to carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and educational practices, and shall provide, and
cause YTEPP Ltd. to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall provide in its annual budget, and make
available promptly as needed, in TT$ equivalent, as counterparts
funds for the Project the following minimum amounts: (i) for Fiscal
Year 1991, $2,100,000; (ii) for Fiscal Year 1992, $2,100,000; (iii)
for Fiscal Year 1993, $2,300,000; (iv) for Fiscal Year 1994,
$2,300,000; and (v) for Fiscal Year 1995, $2,400,000.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) enter into an agreement (the
Subsidiary Agreement) with YTEPP Ltd., under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall provide, inter alia, for: (A)
the transfer, on a grant basis, of the proceeds of the Loan to YTEPP
Ltd.; and (B) the commitment by YTEPP Ltd. to the objectives of the
Project, its obligation to carry out the Project and to perform all
other obligations to be undertaken by YTEPP Ltd. pursuant to this
Agreement, all in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights and promptly carry
out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause YTEPP Ltd.: (a) to
maintain, during the execution of the Project, an organizational
structure satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (b) to
consult the Bank before making any senior staff appointment.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall, or shall cause YTEPP Ltd. to, furnish to the Bank by June 30
and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 30, 1991, semiannual
evaluation reports on the progress achieved in the execution of the
Project, based on the key indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, or shall cause YTEPP Ltd.
to: (a) by December 1, 1991, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall request, on
community based training to contain, inter alia, training
objectives, operational procedures, costs and budgetary allocations
Page  5
therefor satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not later than December
1 of each year, starting on December 1, 1991, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for review and approval, an annual report of such scope
and detail as the Bank shall request on the execution of the
Training Program for the previous year and the proposed Training
Program for the upcoming year, including quantitative targets and
proposed budgetary allocations therefor satisfactory to the Bank.
For purposes of this Section, "Training Program" means a program for
all the training activities to be carried out under the Project
during any Fiscal Year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MOE, shall make available
to YTEPP Ltd. such school facilities and equipment, including the
new equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as shall be
necessary for the purpose of carrying out the training activities
under the Project.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause YTEPP Ltd. to be
assisted by a procurement agent in: (a) the preparation of equipment
lists and bidding documents for the acquisition, through inter-
national and local competitive bidding procedures, of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the selection
process of consultants to be financed under the Loan. Such agent
shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through NTB, assist YTEPP
Ltd. in carrying out Part B.1 of the Project. For such purpose, the
Borrower, through MOE, shall enter into a contractual arrangement
with YTEPP Ltd., under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive such contractual arrangement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause YTEPP Ltd. to enter
into a contractual arrangement with SBDC Ltd., under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank under which: (a) SBDC Ltd.,
acting as the Secretariat of YESS, shall facilitate the provision of
loans by YESS's affiliated credit institutions to trainees graduated
from the Program for the development of small businesses; and (b)
YTEPP Ltd. shall provide, as required, technical assistance to YESS
which shall include, inter alia: (i) planning and implementation of
training courses for loan officers employed by credit institutions
affiliated to YESS; (ii) design of an information system on loan
recipients; and (iii) technical advisory services for youth
establishing small businesses.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) strengthen LMIS
capabilities to assist YTEPP Ltd. in assessing youth employment
prospects and training requirements by providing to LMIS such funds
as shall be required by LMIS to cover its staff and administrative
costs; and (b) ensure that LMIS is at all times staffed with
experienced personnel in adequate numbers during the implementation
of the Project.
      Section 3.10. For purposes of supervising and monitoring the
activities to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall
cause YTEPP Ltd.: (a) to develop by September 1, 1991 a format and
schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, for regular and continous
reporting by all YTEPP Ltd. field and central management personnel;
and (b) to complete by September 1, 1991 the preparation of detailed
qualitative and quantitative indicators based on the key indicators
set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  6
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and shall cause
YTEPP Ltd. to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures of the Borrower and YTEPP Ltd. in
respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such Year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   YTEPP Ltd. shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement or under the contractual
arrangement referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of YTEPP Ltd. or for the suspension of its operations;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
Page  7
which shall make it improbable that YTEPP Ltd. will be able to carry
out the Project;
      (d)   a change shall have been made in the Charter which will
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of YTEPP Ltd;
      (e)   after three years from the Effective Date, the targets
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have not been met; and
      (f)   any of the parties to the contractual arrangement
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement shall have failed to
perform its respective obligations contained therein.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by
the parties thereto; and
      (b)   that the procurement agent referred to in Section 3.06
of this Agreement has been hired by YTEPP Ltd..
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, YTEPP Ltd. and the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date November 27, 1991 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Eric Williams Plaza
            Port-of-Spain
            Trinidad & Tobago
                                          Telex:
                                             22450
      For the Bank:
Page  8
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                        By /s/ Angus Khan
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                      5,800,000        100%
(2) Training                   5,700,000        100%
(3) Staff and                  7,700,000        100%
    tutor salaries
    of YTEPP Ltd.
(4) Technical                    800,000        100%
    Assistance
(5) Unallocated                  700,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                20,700,000
                              ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
Page  9
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after October 31, 1990; (b) payments made for expenditures under
Category (3) of paragraph 1 above, if the aggregate withdrawals from
the Loan Account under such Category exceed in any given calendar
year the equivalent of $1,600,000; (c) expenditures for Part B.1 of
the Project, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to
the Bank, that the contractual arrangement referred
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement has been entered into; and (d)
expenditures for Part B.3 of the Project, unless the Bank has
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the contractual
arrangement referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement has been
entered into.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving the design, delivery and efficiency of the Program by: (a)
enhancing the quality, efficiency and relevance of education and
skills training; (b) increasing opportunities to the youth to
acquire pre-service training and work experience to facilitate their
entry into the labor market; (c) promoting self-employment and
entrepreneurial initiatives through practical training in small
business; (d) strengthening a network of credit institutions which
provide loans to youth for small business development; and (e)
strengthening the planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities of YTEPP Ltd.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Skills Training
1.    Improvement of the quality and cost-effectiveness of YTEPP
Ltd.'s career enhancement training in basic literacy and numeracy,
social, financial and communication skills and attitudinal
development, by means of: (a) development of curriculum and pre-
testing and production of manuals for 400 tutors and 10,000 trainees
per cycle; and (b) upgrading and doubling the length of training for
preservice and in-service for 500 tutors, 250 supervisors, 50
assistant trainers, and 150 student counselors.
2.    (a)   Development of flexible training programs and supple-
ment or substitution of single-skill vocational subjects with a
cluster of skills programs, by means of: (i) a revision of curricula
and course syllabi on individual subjects and clusters including,
inter alia, agricultural production, food preparation and pro-
cessing, building construction and maintenance, automotive
maintenance and repair, metal fabrication and small appliance
repair; and (ii) short-term training courses on the curricula for
about 800 supervisors and tutors;
      (b)   Establishment of a system for the evaluation and
assessment of trainees' skills for purposes of awarding certificates
upon successful completion of the training courses.
3.    Improvement of the training facilities by increasing the
availability of equipment and training materials in about 44
training centers, through the acquisition and utilization of new
equipment and training materials to complement those currently in
place.
Part B:     Post-Training Assistance
1.    Identification and arrangement, under AIM, of placements for
on-the-job training in public and private institutions for a minimum
of 1,500 trainees graduated annually from the Program.
2.    Provision of practical knowledge skills for the start-up and
management of small businesses, covering, inter alia, planning,
Page  10
costing, credit, marketing and record keeping, through 140 hours of
classroom instruction and 100 hours of on-the-job experience.
3.    Strengthening YESS' capabilities: (a) to review and recommend
loan applications to credit institutions affiliated to YESS; (b) to
plan and implement marketing and training programs for loan officers
employed by such credit institutions; and (c) to develop an
information system on loans and technical advisory services for
youth starting up their own businesses.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening of YTEPP Ltd.'s training activities by adding
managerial and staff positions to the organizational structure and
converting key managerial positions from part-time to full-time
status.
2.    Development of a labor market information system to collect,
analyze and disseminate information and prepare special studies on
labor market conditions and employment prospects for youth.
3.    Enhancing of the monitoring and evaluation capacity of YTEPP
Ltd. through improvement of: (a) data collection, processing
mechanisms and analysis with regard to applicants, trainees and
graduates; (b) tracer studies on graduates; and (c) special
evaluation studies on the Program's impact on youth employment,
self-employment and continuing education.
            *                 *                 *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
      beginning February 1, 1997
      through  August 1, 2006                   1,035,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent
of $100,000.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, but more than the equivalent of
$20,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank; or (b) limited international bidding, as
provided in paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
Page  12
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist YTEPP Ltd. in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall cause YTEPP Ltd. pursuant to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Agreement, to employ consultants, including the
procurement agent referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested; and
      (b)   (i)    for replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify; and
            (ii)   prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
Page  13
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Program Graduates' Employment Targets
Page  14
1.    (a)   The number of employed or self-employed graduates from
the Program (Graduates) shall be at least 1.5 times that of a sample
of youth not graduated from the Program (the Control Group); or
      (b)   The Graduates shall be receiving earnings at least 20%
greater than the Control Group.
2.    The criteria and methodology for determining the Control Group
and the achievement of the targets in subparagraphs (a) and (b)
above, shall be defined by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 7
           Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
==================================================================
COMPONENTS & INDICATORS   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  TOTAL
==================================================================
I.  General
1.  Total No. of         13,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 61,000
    applicants
2.  Total No. of         10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 50,000
    new trainees
3.  Total No. of          8,500  8,500  9,000  9,000  9,000 44,000
    graduates
II.  Skills Training
(a)  Career Enhancement Training
1.   No. of counsellors     200    200    200    200    200  1,000
     hired and trained
2.   No. of applicants
     given diagnostic
     tests                8,000  9,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 47,000
3.   No. of trainees
     completing:
     - career enhance-
       ment               9,000  9,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 48,000
     - special tutoring
       in literacy &
       numeracy           1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  5,000
4.   No. of tutors hired
     & trained              450    450    500    500    500  2,400
COMPONENTS & INDICATORS     1991   1992   1993   1994  1995    TOTAL
(b)  Job Skills Training
1.   Center-Based Training
1.1  No. of tutors hired
     & trained              570    580    580    580   580   2,890
1.2  No. of new cur-
     riculum guides
     & job sheets
     produced               570     35      -      -     -     605
1.3  No. of centers
     provided equipment
     (% installation)        _      43     43     43    43     172
1.4  No. of trainees
     certified            7,500  7,500  7,500   7,500 7,500 37,500
2.   Community-Based Training
2.1  No. of trainees        825  1,000  1,000   1,000 1,000  4,825
2.2  No. of projects         55    150    150     150   150    655
Page  15
2.3  No. of tutors           55    150    150     150   150    655
2.4  No. of graduates       500    750    800     800   800  3,650
III. Post-Training Assistance
1.   Work Experience
     No. of work experience
     placements           1,500  1,500  1,500   1,500  1,500 7,500
2.   Training and Support for Self-Employment
2.1  No. of trainees     2,000  2,500  2,500   2,500  2,500 12,000
2.2  No. of tutors
     hired & trained        60     50     50      50     50    260
2.3  No. of trainees
     who complete
     self-employment
     proposals             700  2,000  2,000    2,000 2,000  8,700
COMPONENTS & INDICATORS     1991   1992   1993    1994  1995  TOTAL
2.4  No. of financial
     institutions
     providing credit
     for youth enterprises     5      5      5       5    5     25
IV.  Institutional Strengthening
1.   LMIS reports produced     2      4      4       4    4     18
2.   Tracer studies
     completed                 2      1      1       -    1      5
3.   Special evaluation
     studies completed         2      2      2       2    2     10
