Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13451
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2609-DO)
AUGUST 17, 1994
Department III
Infrastucture Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency is expressed in Dominican Pesos (RD$) or US Dollars at the
estimated average floating rate introduced in 1990:
US$ 1.00 = RD$ 12.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units               Metric Equivalent
1 Mile (mi)             =        1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square (mi)           =       20,589 sq. km (kM2)
1 pound (lb)            =        0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (2,200 lbs)    =     0.907 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (2,240 lbs)  =        1.016 metric ton (m ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
DARE        Department for Administration of External Resources
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
SEOPC       Secretariat of State for Public Works and Communications
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Dominican Republic
Third Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-DO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Dominican RepubLic - Third Road
Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-DO)", prepared by the Latin American and Caribbean Regional
Office. It includes Part II, prepared by the borrower.
The basic project objective was to provide support to road reconstruction and
implementation of a comprehensive program of institutional strengthening for the Secretariat of
Public Works and Communications (SEOPC). Institution building was a key element of project
design.
Implementation was troubled from the start for many reasons, including: delayed
project effectiveness; inadequate engineering designs; constraints on local cost financing; and
SEOPC's weak project management. Project preparation and appraisal failed to incorporate lessons
from the past and assess risks realistically. Implementation took three and one-half years longer than
planned. However, the PCR reported actual project costs in US dollars as virtually identical to
planned costs.
The project succeeded in reconstructing about 200 km of roads, against 150 km
originally planned. The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) was 16%, though the PCR provides
little information to back this figure up. The ex-ante ERR was 24%. In institution building,
achievements were mixed; among the issues encountered were lack of reinforcement and follow-up
and frequent turn-over of SEOPC staff. Compliance with project covenants was uneven. In
particular, the road maintenance covenant was not complied with. Follow-up Bank lending is
rectifying some project shortcomings.
Project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, institutional development as partial,
and project sustainability as uncertain due in part to continuing institutional weaknesses of SEOPC.
PCR quality is acceptable. No performance audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2609-DO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE ............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ................................ u
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ..1..... 
A. Project Identity.                                                      1
B. Background.                                                            1
C. Project Objectives and Descriptio.                                     2
D. Project Design and Organization.                                       4
E. Project Implementation.                                                7
F. Project Results .10
G. Project Sustainability .12
H. Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .13
I.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned .14
J.  Bank-Borrower Relationship .16
K. Consulting Services .17
L. Project Documentation and Data .17
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    18
Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Report .18
A. Background .18
B. Civil Works Implementation .19
C. Upgrading of Rural Roads .20
D.   Procurement of Goods and Repair of Equipment .20
E. Consulting Services .20
F.   Road Maintenance (1986-1992)  .................... 22
G. Relations between SEOPC and IBRD .22
H. Economic Rate of Return.                                              23
PART m  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ....................  24
1. Related Bank Loans .24
2. Project Timetable .25
3. Loan Disbursements .25
4. Project Implementation .26
5. Project Costs and Financing .27
6. Project Results .28
7. Status of Loan Covenants .30
8.   Use of Bank Resources .......................... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2609-DO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Third Road
Reconstruction Project in the Dominican Republic financed under Loan 2609-DO
for US$35.8 million. Loan 2609-DO was approved by the Board on July 23,
1985; the Loan Agreement was signed on August 8, 1985, and became effective
on November 7, 1986, upon its ratification by the National Congress. The
project was carried out from 1986 through 1993. The original Project Closing
Date, December 31, 1989, was extended annually four times to December 31,
1993. Only US$302.25 remained undisbursed at the closing of the Loan and was
canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division Country Department
III, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, information gleaned from the project
files, materials obtained during project completion mission and discussions with
staff from the Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones,
(SEOPC) who were associated with the project.
This report contains Parts I and III prepared by the Bank and Part II
prepared by the Borrower. Part II reflects the Borrower's perspective of the
project's implementation achievements and related difficulties.






- ii -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2609-DO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.   The Third Road Reconstruction Project was designed to support the Government's
strategy for preserving, rather than expanding, the country's main network. The project
provided funds for urgently needed road reconstruction and maintenance of selected sections
of the network; procurement of equipment, vehicles and spare parts; and the strengthening
of institutional capability of the Secretariat of State of Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC). The main thrust of the Bank assistance in the transport sector was to further the
development process initiated in 1976, to upgrade the road transport infrastructure with
financing provided through three Bank loans totalling US$65 million. The project was
closely linked with macro policy objectives aimed at fostering economic development through
reduction of transportation costs.
2.    The Third Project was designed to (i) help the Government preserve its investments
in road infrastructure by completing the unfinished road reconstruction program which was
being implemented under the previous project (Loan 1784-DO); (ii) provide training for
SEOPC personnel in the management of its workshops and spare parts stockrooms to ensure
prompt equipment servicing and adequate logistic support for field crews; (iii) procure
additional units of new road maintenance equipment for the replacement of unserviceable
equipment, and (iv) to purchase new workshop equipment and tools for the overhaul and
repair of SEOPC's equipment to increase its availability and utilization.
Implementation Experience
3.    Loan Agreement was signed on August 8, 1985. Due to national elections and the
resulting change of Government prior to congressional approval of the project, the Loan
became effective on November 7, 1986, fifteen months after its signature. The original
Project Completion Date was June 30, 1989 and the Closing Date was December 31, 1989.
Due to substantial project implementation delays, disbursements from the Loan Account, at
the original Project Completion Date, June 1989, totalled US$16.2 million, or about 45.3
percent of the Loan. To ensure completion of the project, the Closing Date was extended
annually four times to December 31, 1993, at the request of the Government. The last one-
year extension was only needed to refund the amounts retained by SEOPC from payments
made to contractors as additional performance security. The refunds were due one year after
provisional acceptance of the works completed by contractors. The project's implementation,



- iii -
including 52 km of additional road reconstruction works which started in 1990, was
completed by December 31, 1992, more than three years later than scheduled at appraisal.
4.    The total project cost was US$45.7 million, comprising US$30.7 m for civil works;
US$9.4m for purchase of equipment and spare parts; US$1.8m for the supervision of the
works; and US$3.8m for consultants' assistance to SEOPC's in the development of a
transport planning and management system. The Bank loan of US$35.8 million was
practically fully disbursed by December 1993, the extended Closing Date. The final
Economic Rate of Return of 16 percent, was lower than the ERR of 24 percent estimated at
appraisal, mostly due to higher project costs and the financial cost of the delays to the
Government in terms of escalating prices due to inflation. Implementation delays slowed
disbursements increasing the cost of loan commitment fees payable on undisbursed loan
balances and augmented the loss of foregone benefits to road users.
5.    From its beginning, the implementation of the Project was not compatible with the
implementation schedule agreed at appraisal due to: (a) the initial 15-months delay to declare
the project effective; (b) inadequate engineering design for the reconstruction works that was
originally prepared in 1980/81 for the 150 km of roads to be reconstructed under the Project;
(c) SEOPC's lack of prompt and decisive action to resolve problems caused by contractors
whose poor performnance was responsible for serious implementation delays (some
contractors had been cautioned that their contracts would be rescinded due to unsatisfactory
progress, and then allowed to continue without any visible improvement of performance);
(d) SEOPC's weak coordination of the project's activities including expropriation of private
property and relocation of public utilities installations (water pipes, and electricity and
telephone posts) which were located within the right-of-way of the project road sections to
be reconstructed, and impeded progress of the road works; and (e) SEOPC's requests to
contractors to stop their ongoing works in order to redesign engineering to lower the cost
of the works at hand.
6.    The scope of the project implementation agreed at appraisal was changed, with Bank
approval, by: (i) adding 52 km of reconstruction works (para. 3); (ii) eliminating both the
labor-based rural road works program (100 km) and the preparation of the related economic
study to determine viability of labor-based works on rural roads; and, (iii) deferring the
training program for personnel from SEOPC and the domestic construction industry in the
use of bituminous seals and overlays for road maintenance. The training program is currently
being implemented under Loan 3350-DO.
7.    Subject to observations made in paragraph 5, above, compliance with the loan
Covenants was, in general, satisfactory except for the covenant which required that the
Special Account, opened at the Banco Central, be maintained in US Dollars and not in local
currency, as mandates Junta Monetaria de la Republica Dominicana. This issue was
discussed by Bank missions with the Government and was finally resolved. The Special
account was closed at the end of the Project.



- iv -
Results
8.    The four-year extension of the Closing Date made possible the completion of the
following project components: (i) road reconstruction works totalling about 204 kin; (ii)
acquisition of new units of road equipment and vehicles; (iii) purchase of workshop tools and
spare parts for the overhaul and repair of SEOPC's road maintenance equipment and, (iv)
consulting services for equipment management and transport study.
9.    The results of SEOPC's institution-building activities were mixed. The training
program for SEOPC's personnel in the organization and operation of workshops and spare
parts stockrooms was completed. Equipment management was improved although not to a
satisfactory level and road maintenance needs further strengthening. The servicing of
equipment and carrying out of road maintenance programs continue under the Fifth Road
Project, (Loan 3350-DO). The design of the Transport Planning and Management System
was only partly successful due to limited involvement in the study of personnel from other
transport sub-sectors, which precluded preparation of practical transport plans. On the other
hand, SEOPC strongly supported the preparation and implementation of road condition
inventories based on pavement deflections and surface roughness, for which data was
obtained by SEOPC's personnel who were thoroughly trained by consultants in the
implementation of the new road inventory system, using specialized equipment purchased for
this purpose with the loan funds.
10.   Two of the project's components were eliminated from its scope during the project
implementation, at SEOPC's request and with Bank approval, namely: (i) the training
program for personnel from SEOPC and the domestic construction industry in the application
of new technologies for bituminous road seals and overlays'; and, (ii) the program for labor-
based works on 100 km of rural roads which could not be started for lack of Govemment
financing and commitment. The study to determine economic viability of labor-based rural
roads works was not carried out and SEOPC decided to avail itself of USAID and IDB
financing for future rural roads projects. As a result of these changes, the Government
requested, and the Bank approved, that Loan funds allocated to the two components, totalling
US$1.1 million, be re-allocated in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, category (1) Civil
Works: from (1-b) Road Improvement for Part A.2 of the Project, to (1-a), for Part A.1,
Road Reconstruction.
Sustainability
11.   Sustainability of the project's achievements is in doubt owing to institutional
weaknesses in SEOPC. These persisted largely because of high staff turnover. Additional
assistance was mobilized to strengthen SEOPC under the Fifth Road Project, Loan 3350-DO.
Long term strengthening will require measures to substantially reduce turnover of SEOPC's
1. Th. progrm wasn subequnty included with a modified cope and format in the Fifth Road Maintennc
Project (aote: the onginal 'Fourth Project' wa  re-numbered an t  Fifth Project).I



- v -
personnel.  This assistance is focussed on institutional strengthening of SEOPC in road
maintenance management and pavement technology, the two weakest areas of SEOPC's
operations. Institution strengthening programs need Government support, and will take time.
Part of the problem seems rooted in SEOPC's inability to develop a depository of
institutional memory for lack of tenured technical and administrative personnel, who would
provide continuity to building upon past institutional achievements through in-house training
of SEOPC's newcomers. SEOPC has been unable to retain its staff that received training
financed under past projects, in the management of workshops, stockrooms, scheduling
maintenance of equipment and roads, and in the preparation of pavement condition studies
to determine cost-effective road investment programs. To date, the lack of institutional
memory has also been caused by large-scale replacements of SEOPC personnel in the wake
of national elections resulting in the rotation of administrative and technical personnel, every
time a new government is formed.
Flndings and Lessons Learned
12.   The project's scope was appropriate for the country's needs but its implementation
was beset by problems which delayed its completion. Except for the roads added to the
roads program in 1990 (paras. 3 and 6), which were finished in good time, the completion
of some reconstruction works contracted in 1981 took about six to ten years (1981-1991)
instead of four, as originally scheduled. In retrospect, many problems could have been
avoided had more attention been given during the project preparation stage to problems
experienced by SEOPC with similar Bank-financed past projects. Familiarity with lessons
of past experience would have alerted the Bank appraisal mission to the need to adopt
appropriate measures to avoid repetition, in the context of the Third Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project, of the problems which hindered implementation of preceding Bank
financed projects, namely, starting project implementation with inadequately prepared
engineering and deficient planning and programming for the execution of road works. The
Project Completion Report for the Second Project indicated that beginning implementation
of that project on the basis of incomplete engineering was the primary cause of subsequent
delays and cost increases. This warning was not heeded during preparation of the Third
Road Reconstruction Project, possibly because the PCR for the Second Project was issued
after the preparation of the Third Project was completed. The project implementation
schedule agreed at appraisal was too optimistic having, apparently, been based on the
assumption expressed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Project Summary, Risks, and
para. 3.14, that "the quality of the engineering prepared for the project's works by SEOPC's
consultants was acceptable". This assessment might have been too hasty and it should have
been made in consultation with a qualified road design and\or construction engineer, as was
done for the Guerra - Monte Plata and Moca-Autopista Duarte road reconstruction works
(para. 21).
13.    Engineering prepared for the reconstruction works on the Guerra-Bayaguana-Monte
Plata and Moca-Autopista Duarte, which were added to the works program in 1990 (paras.
3 and 6), was accepted after discussions between SEOPC and the Bank prior to initiating the



- vi -
works concerning their implementation, which was then successfully carried out within their
allocated budgets, under the supervision of a competent local consulting firm.
14.   This Project and the Emergency and the Second Road reconstruction projects
provided lessons of experience which were used by the Bank to good advantage over the last
four year period of the project's implementation. The staff established a productive dialogue
with SEOPC personnel which apparently resulted in a more intensive involvement of
SEOPC's higher level staff in the execution of the project, facilitating the project's
implementation and the completion of the Third Road Reconstruction Project. It also helped
SEOPC and the Bank in the preparation of the Fifth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (Loan 3350-DO).
15.   The lessons learned confirm that to ensure successful implementation of Bank projects
it is necessary, during project preparation stage, to emphasize the need for uncompromising
quality of projects' inputs, which in the case of this project required good engineering
designs; and contracting qualified contractors and consultants. Other issues which should
have been addressed concerned the Borrowers' sense of ownership of the project and its full
commitment to support and achieve the agreed project objectives by providing the required
human and financial resources and logistic support. The project also demonstrated the
benefit of maintaining an open and productive dialogue with the Borrower which ensured
close collaboration with the project executing agency, and especially DARE and the Bank
supervisory team, and facilitated solution of problems which emerged during project
implementation.






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2609-DO)
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:     Third Road Reconstruction Project
Loan Number:      2609-DO
RVP Unit:         Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:          Dominican Republic
Sector:           Transportation
Subsector:        Roads
B.   Background
1.    The Dominican Republic has an area of about 48,500 km2 and a population of about
7 million. Adequate transport infrastructure is of paramount importance to the Dominican
economy. The economy, essentially primary and reliant upon the agricultural and mining
sectors, depends heavily upon an adequate transport system. The transport sector accounts
for about 6% of GDP. Highway transport is the most widely used mode and the network
provides access to all major producing areas. Sugar cane is the only commodity transported
mainly by railway. The transport system comprises almost 5,000 km of highways of which
about 900 km are not yet paved and about 14,000 of rural roads (300 km asphalted), of
which more than 5,000 km have less than minimum engineering standards and are often
constructed in parallel to other roads; 1,700 km of railways; 15 ports (three major ones); and
9 airports (two with scheduled international services).
2.    The Bank's past involvement in the road transport sub-sector dates back to 1973,
when it acted as the executing agency for UNDP-financed Highway Rehabilitation and
Administration Study. Since 1976, three highway projects were financed under Bank loans,
totalling US$65 million, to improve the condition of some 320 km, or about six percent of
the highway network. The projects included the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project, Loan 1316-DO for US$5 million (1976); the Emergency Road Reconstruction
Project, Loan 1783-DO for US$25 million (1980), which was approved by the Bank in the
wake of the September 1979 hurricane; and the Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project, Loan 1784-DO for US$35.0 million (1980).



3.    When the reconstruction works carried out under the Emergency Road Reconstruction
Project were about 70% completed, the Loan 1783-DO was depleted and the Government
was unable to allocate the funds needed to finish the project. To complete the Emergency
Project's road works, the Bank approved on April 30, 1983, an amendment to the Second
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project Loan Agreement (Ln. 1784-DO), to provide
the necessary financing. This amendment, resulting in the expenditure of some of the funds
originally intended for the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project, caused,
in turn, an unfinanced gap for civil works originally included under the Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. To remedy this, one of the main objectives of the
Third Road Reconstruction Project was to close the financing gap to complete reconstruction
of the 150 km that were not finished under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project, (Loan 1784-DO).
4.    At the end of the Second Maintenance and Reconstruction Project, the reported
percentage of completion of the works program was as follows: (i) Santiago-Moca (17.8
km), 98 percent, as of April 1985; Moca-Salcedo-Tenares (21.7 km), 5%, and works were
suspended; Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris (14.7 km), 80%; Santo Domingo-San Pedro
de Macoris (64.6 kmn) 80%, as of March 1985; and San Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de
Farfan (31.5 km), 40%.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
5.    Project Objectives.   As described in the Staff Appraisal Report, the principal
project objectives comprised: (i) completion of the road reconstruction works which were not
finished under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project; (ii) strengthening
SEOPC's road maintenance operations and related personnel training; (iii) preparation of an
inventory of the condition of SEOPC's equipment fleet and the purchase of spare parts to
carry out equipment overhaul and maintenance programs; (iv) procurement of additional units
of select road maintenance equipment to upgrade SEOPC's fleet, (v) completion of the
economic viability study of labor-based works on rural roads which was initiated under Loan
1784-DO; (vi) development within SEOPC of expertise in transport planning and pavement
management, and (vii) training for personnel from SEOPC and the domestic construction
industry in the use of the latest technology for the application of bituminous pavement seals
and overlays in periodic road maintenance works and in new road construction.
6.    Project Description. The Third Road Reconstruction Project included the following
major components:
(i)   Civil works to complete reconstruction of three roads totalling 150.6 km, which were
originally contracted in 1981, and initiated but not finished under the Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project, namely:



(a) Santiago - San Francisco de Macoris (54.5 km);
(b) San Juan de la Maguana - Las Matas de Farfan (31.5 km)
(c) Santo Domingo - San Pedro de Macoris (64.6 km).
(ii)   Road Maintenance and Personnel Training to restore SEOPC's road maintenance
management system put in place under the previously implemented project (Ln. 1316-
T-DO), under which standards for routine maintenance works were developed and
engineers, foremen and workers were trained by consultants in the design and
operation of the system. The system had since deteriorated and its restoration was
necessary to help SEOPC improve the use of its financial and manpower resources
and to address issues of spare parts shortages and the lack of equipment for road
maintenance.
(iii) Provision of technical assistance services to help SEOPC: a) evaluate the condition
of SEOPC's basic road maintenance equipment (graders, wheel loaders, dump trucks,
rollers); b) prepare road maintenance programs for the years 1987, 1988, and 1989;
and c) identify related equipment needs and its availability from SEOPC's equipment
fleet. Consultants were to assist workshop personnel in selecting equipment whose
repair would be economically justified and in helping SEOPC with the preparation
of procurement documents for the purchase of spare parts needed for a program of
preventive equipment maintenance scheduled for 1987-1988. The project also
provided for the purchase of selected units of new equipment to complement
SEOPC's existing equipment fleet.
(iv)  Transport Planning and Management System as part of the institution strengthening
program designed to implement a planning system that would help SEOPC formulate,
on a regular and continuous basis, sub-sectoral transport investment programs. Input
data for other transport sub-sectors was to be prepared by agencies in charge of
respective sub-sectors (roads, ports, airports). SEOPC staff was to receive hands-on
training in reviewing, updating, processing and documenting available data on traffic,
revenues and costs and in collecting pertinent information to adequately evaluate the
actual and alternative policies for coordinating transport activities, including planning,
programming, and the monitoring of each major sub-sector. During implementation
of the system, staff was to receive additional training in: (a) quantifying and
analyzing pertinent economic and financial costs and benefits derived from the
application of laws, regulations, policies and procedures, (b) evaluating transport
policies, (c) making recommendations for the ways and timing for the implementation
of approved policies, and (d) assisting in their implementation. The planning system
was to be designed together with a monitoring system, both with direct linkages to
annual financial programming and budget preparation activities. This component also
provided for the acquisition of a Benkelman Beam deflectometer, a Mays Roughness
Meter, and a Falling Weight Deflectometer to obtain data on the structural strength
of road pavements and their surface condition, in order to improve planning based
on rationalization and prioritization of investments in the road transport sub-sector.



The data were to be integrated with other relevant road inventory data prepared for
input into the HDM highway maintenance planning system, already in place.
(v)   Rural Roads Study to explore its employment creation potential, investigate the utility
of labor-based techniques for rural road works, and to complete the economic
viability study initiated for this purpose under the Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project. Pertinent data for the study regarding costs and benefits were
to be obtained from labor-based works to be carried out on 200 km of rural roads.
The works were started under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project (Loan 1784-DO) with substantial delays. Due to a shortage of counterpart
funds and SEOPC's waning interest, the works were completed on 100 km or 50%
of the agreed total. To collect sufficient and reliable data to conclude the study, the
Bank agreed with SEOPC that the remaining 100 km of works would be carried out
under the Third Road Reconstruction Project (Loan 2609-DO).
(vi)  Training in Bituminous Pavement Techniques. The purpose of the component was
to upgrade skills of both SEOPC and the domestic industry's personnel in carrying
out periodic road maintenance works using latest technology for bituminous pavement
seals and overlays.
D.   Project Design and Organization
7.    Conceptual Foundation. The Third Road Reconstruction Project was closely linked
with macro-policy objectives that aimed at fostering economic development through
institutional strengthening and the reduction of transportation costs. The project's strategy
focussed on road reconstruction and maintenance works and institutional improvements
designed to develop within SEOPC an effective road management system for planning,
programming and carrying out road works and maintenance, and for monitoring cost-
effectiveness of all transport related activities.
8.    The project was designed as a highway maintenance and reconstruction operation with
institutional and policy objectives to provide efficient and safe levels of service for highway
users and to help coordinate the Government's role in transport. In particular, the Project
aimed at assisting SEOPC in: (i) developing capacity for road pavement management by
establishing a Pavement Evaluation Department charged with planning and programming of
road reconstruction works;  (ii) improving road maintenance operations by providing
functional skills training for SEOPC's personnel in preparing inventories of the roads and
of SEOPC's equipment fleet to determine and to carry out required programs of maintenance
and repairs; (iii) completing the ongoing road reconstruction works totalling 150 km which
were not finished under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan
1784-DO); (iv) carrying out 100 km of labor-based rural road works to complete the
program initiated under the Second Project (para. 5-v). The program was designed to
demonstrate labor-based techniques for improvements and maintenance of rural access roads,



and to collect supplementary data on the cost and benefits derived from such works. The
data were needed to complete the economic viability study of labor-based works, which was
initiated under the Second Project; (v) training of personnel from both SEOPC and the
domestic construction industry in the use of the latest technological advances in the
application of bituminous pavement seals and overlays for periodic road maintenance; and,
(vii) assisting SEOPC in procurement of spare parts for the repair of SEOPC's existing
equipment and purchase of additional units of select road maintenance equipment and
vehicles to upgrade SEOPC's existing fleet.
9.    The institutional strengthening program designed to improve SEOPC's effectiveness
was one of the key elements of the Project. Its focus was on SEOPC: (i) initiating a
systematic and coordinated planning effort that would eventually include all major transport
sub-sectors, and promote an orderly decision-making process to facilitate rationalization of
road investment policies and their implementation; (ii) planning and programming annual
road reconstruction works and road maintenance programs in line with available budgets; (iii)
improving SEOPC's procedures for the procurement of goods, works and services financed
under Bank projects, and (iv) enhancing accountability for all road network activities through
appropriate bookkeeping of the project accounts and annual audits of the project accounts by
outside auditors. The concept of the program was well understood and shared by all relevant
parties.
10.   Training for SEOPC's personnel was to be given by international consultants to help
SEOPC's staff hone their technical and managerial skills and optimize the use of scarce
financial, equipment and manpower resources. It also envisaged functional training for
SEOPC's staff in managing workshops and equipment spare parts stockrooms; and training
for SEOPC staff and the domestic construction industry's personnel in the use of new
methods for the application of bituminous pavement seals and overlays.
11.  Innovative aspects of the project comprised: (i) the establishment of a Pavement
Evaluation Department; and (ii) the use of pavement deflectometers and a roughness meter
for the preparation of road condition inventories, that would allow SEOPC to prioritize
investments; and, (iii) the introduction of inter-sectoral transport planning concepts.
12.   Project Preparation. The original engineering design for the reconstruction works
of the three roads to be implemented under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project (para. 5 (i), was prepared in 1980/81 by SEOPC, assisted by consultants. The works
were contracted in 1981. The road engineering was found deficient after the works had
started, and SEOPC contracted local consultants to revise it. The revisions were completed
in July 1982, and new cost estimates were 50% higher than the original estimates, even
though the geometric design standards were reduced. The higher cost was due to increases
in works quantities and the consultants' recommendations to use river gravel, which had to
be hauled over 64 kms to the works site, for the reconstruction of the road pavement
structure. SEOPC proposed a modification of this design in December 1982 and re-packaged
the road re-construction works for the three project roads to be carried out under five



- 6 -
contracts. The works which had been contracted previously were re-negotiated with
contractors by February 1983, based on the new estimates of the works quantities and unit
prices adjusted for inflation. Contracts were signed in November 1983 when the possibility
of financing the completion of these works by the Bank, under the Third Road
Reconstruction Project, Loan 2609-DO, was confirmed. The total cost of the works
increased from the original US$28.1 million to about US$32.0 million.
13.   Based on the revision of engineering design prepared for the Project, the Bank Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) stated, in the Project Summary, Risks, that: "No major risks were
involved in the implementation of the project because the designs for the roads to be
reconstructed had been revised to reflect realistic standards, were complete, and works had
been contracted and were underway" (under Loan 1784-DO), adding that: "the only
significant risk was related to the country's overall fiscal situation and possibly, to the
difficulty to provide on time the required counterpart funds. However, this risk was reduced
by the provision of a special revolving fund for local currency requirements". Furthermore,
paragraph 4.5 of the SAR informed that "re-tendering of the road works components was not
envisaged since the proposed financing was for completing advanced contracts already
awarded following the Bank's Guidelines".
14.   The above statements would indicate that the project appraisal mission presumed that
issues concerning the low quality of the engineering and other implementation problems had
been adequately addressed, resolved, and required no further review during the preparation
of the Third Project (Loan 2609-DO). This presumption was flawed. The preparation of
the Third Project also focussed on institutional issues including the need to improve transport
planning and the strengthening of SEOPC's network management system developed under
previous Bank loans, by providing technical assistance to make the system fully operational.
This envisaged improvements of SEOPC's equipment management system through
enhancement of operational procedures for SEOPC's workshops and stockrooms; timely
equipment repairs and overhaul; and, improvement of SEOPC's equipment availability and
utilization.
15.   Preparation of annual road maintenance programs was covenanted in the Loan
Agreement which stipulated that maintenance programs for each fiscal year would be
prepared by SEOPC before June 30, of the preceding year, and submitted to the Bank for
its review and comments. To ensure adequate availability of equipment, SEOPC was
responsible for the preparation of equipment repair and maintenance programs in function
of equipment needs identified in the annual road maintenance programs.
16.   SEOPC's consultants prepared terms of reference for two project components,
namely, (i) the design and implementation of the Transport Planning and Management
System, and (ii) the upgrading of technical skills of personnel from SEOPC and the domestic
construction industry in the application of bituminous overlays for periodic road maintenance
and re-construction. The Rural Road works component to determine economic viability of
labor-based works required no additional preparation, given that the component was a



-7-
continuation of the program initiated under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project, Loan 1784-DO.
17.   Roles and Responsibilities. The roles and responsibilities were clearly defined
during project preparation, stated in the SAR, and agreed by all parties concerned. SEOPC's
Department for Administration of External Resources (DARE) was responsible for the
overall implementation of the project and contracted local consulting firms for the
supervision of the road reconstruction works. SEOPC's Planning Department was assisted
by consultants in transport planning and pavement management.
E.   Project Implementation
18.    Implementation was slow particularly during the first years, due to administrative,
technical and financial problems including: (i) the initial 15-months delay in declaring the
project effective; (ii) inadequate review of the quality of engineering designs prepared for
the road reconstruction works; (iii) the decision not to re-bid the ongoing works even though
some were carried out in an unsatisfactory manner under the Second Project by contractors
whose qualifications were wanting for lack of equipment and adequate financial and technical
capacity to carry out the works; (iv) shortage of counterpart funds which lasted until 1991,
and the resulting delays in making payments to contractors for completed works; (v)
inadequate coordination by SEOPC of the project's activities causing delays in expropriating
and\or relocating private properties and public utilities which interfered with the project
works; (vi) delays in purchasing new equipment for road maintenance and for personnel
training programs; (vii) lack of firm action on the part of SEOPC to resolve the problem of
under-performing contractors who were responsible for prolonged and unauthorized
stoppages of the works; (viii) technical weakness of some consultants retained by DARE for
the supervision of the works; and, (ix) SEOPC's practice of interrupting ongoing works to
ask contractors to redesign the works to reduce their costs to levels compatible with original
estimates. Delays due to administrative problems might have been due to the fact that the
then new SEOPC administration was not familiar with the Project. Also, SEOPC's highly
centralized decision making process appeared to have an adverse effect on the project
progress for lack of timely decisions.
19.   Furthermore, the completion of the project works expected by December 1990, was
delayed due to: (a) shortage of foreign exchange during the economic crisis of 1989/91, and
the restrictions imposed by the Government as part of its stabilization program in 1990, on
foreign imports including road construction materials; (b) disagreements between SEOPC and
its contractors regarding adjustment of contract prices due to a rapid depreciation of local
currency and, (c) the suspension of Bank disbursements from November 1990 through
February 1991, as a result of the default by the Government on the repayment of Bank's
loans. All these difficulties were eventually overcome and the Project has been completed
and its objectives substantially met.



- 8 -
20.   The scope of the project implementation agreed at appraisal was changed, with Bank
approval, by: (i) increasing the amount of reconstruction works with about 52 km. of
additional roads and, (ii) eliminating labor-based rural road works (100 kIn). In February
1989, SEOPC confirmed in its letter to the Bank that it could not proceed with the rural road
works program for lack of local funds; at Borrower's request, the Bank authorized re-
allocation of US$1.1 million of the Loan funds from Category (1)-b, Rural Roads
Improvements to (l)-a, Road Reconstruction program. The third change was the deferment
of the training program for personnel from SEOPC and the domestic construction industry
in the use of bituminous seals and overlays for road maintenance. This was prompted by
substantial delays in procuring equipment needed for the personnel training program. The
component was deferred and included, at SEOPC's request and with Bank approval, with an
enlarged scope and format, in the follow-on Fifth Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project,
Loan 3350-DO, which was approved in June 1991.
21.   As a result of savings (i.e. project loan funds that would otherwise remain
undisbursed) realized by excluding the rural roads program and technical assistance in road
paving techniques and due to lower than the original estimates of project costs caused by a
sharp increase in the value of the dollar, the Guerra-Bayaguana-Monte Plata and Moca-
Cruce Autopista Duarte reconstruction works (52 km) were added to the works program in
1990, after the engineering designs prepared during project implementation were reviewed
and approved by the Bank. The supervision of these works was good and the works were
completed within budget and in good time (allowing for some delays as a result of economic
stabilization measures put in effect by the Government).
22.   With the exception of the Guerra-Bayaguana-Monte Plata and the Moca-Cruce
Autopista Duarte roads, the project reconstruction works were contracted based on
engineering designs revised by consultants in July 1982, and approved by SEOPC in
February 1983. Technical problems which became apparent during implementation of the
road reconstruction program, would indicate that the revisions of the original engineering
design were not thorough and lacking of: (i) an adequate identification of the roads'
subsurface conditions; (ii) reliable estimates of the quantity of materials to be excavated
and/or replaced; and, (iii) identification of alternative, economically exploitable borrow-pits
with road construction materials which satisfied project specifications and were located
within reasonable hauling distance from the Project works sites. The latter difficulty was
critical because the quantity of materials available from the known existing borrow pits in
some areas was insufficient to meet the demand of the ongoing works financed by the Bank
and by others, forcing the project's contractors to look for suitable borrow-pits far from their
work sites, a time-consuming and costly undertaking.
23.   Contracts for the reconstruction works of the three road sections mentioned in
para. 5-i, were signed under the Second Road Project in 1981. The qualifications of some
contractors were wanting, as they neither had the required financial capacity nor adequate
equipment to execute the project works. Contractors, who for lack of their own equipment,
planned to carry out the works with rented equipment, later found that SEOPC rates



approved for the reimbursement of equipment rental charges were below market rates,
making equipment rental uneconomic. As a result, most contracts were not completed within
the contractually agreed time.  Contract awards made to some contractors that were
marginally qualified, seems to indicate that such awards were not made in strict conformance
with the Bank procurement guidelines which are designed to help Borrowers select qualified
contractors in terms of their relevant past contracting experience, financial capacity, and
availability of construction equipment to carry out the works under contract.
Summary of Implementation Variances
24.   Project variances included modification of the project's scope and departure from the
project implementation schedule agreed at appraisal, namely:
(a)   additional reconstruction works carried out on the Guerra-Bayaguana-Monte
Plata Road (41 km, cost US$5.3 million), and the Moca- Autopista Duarte
Road (11 km, cost US$1. 1 million), totalling 52 km for a total cost of US$6.4
million; this variance was positive by reducing road users' costs sooner than
expected;
(b)   Deferment of the technical assistance program to help SEOPC and the
domestic construction industry personnel improve the quality of bituminous
surface treatments including seals and overlays, which was justified given that
the necessary equipment was unavailable due to procurement delays;
furthermore, it was agreed with the Bank, that a similar program would be
included, in a more structured way, in the context of the follow-on project
financed under Loan 3350-DO;
(c)   poor quality of engineering used for the contracting of the road reconstruction
works mentioned in para. 5 (i);
(d)   equipment procurement delays; and
(e)   the elimination of the labor-based rural road works.
Possible Avoidance of Variances
25.   Implementation delays caused by poor quality of engineering should have been
anticipated given the Bank's previous experience with similar Bank-financed road projects
in the Dominican Republic. This variance could have been avoided had the Bank appraisal
mission included an experienced road design engineer to review the quality of both the
original engineering design and its subsequent revisions. The mission should have also
analyzed prior to making its decision whether re-tendering some ongoing works would have
merit, given contractors' poor performance. In retrospect, it would appear that the decision
not to re-tender was flawed especially in the case of the Moca-Salcedo-Tenares road section



- 10 -
on which hardly any progress was made since 1981, even though the contractor received
substantial advances to carry out the works. Another important variance, tardy procurement
of equipment, was detrimental to the project implementation because it affected the
scheduling of training programs for SEOPC personnel. This could have been avoided had
the Loan Agreement included a covenant requiring that Bank financing for the purchase of
equipment would be contingent upon SEOPC purchasing tht required equipment prior to the
mutually agreed date.
26.   The elimination from the Project of the labor-intensive Rural Roads works component
made at SEOPC request with Bank approval, might have been difficult to avoid given that
SEOPC gave highest priority to the reconstruction program of the roads comprising the main
network and had interest in optimizing the use of the Bank loan funds for this purpose,
leaving the financing of rural roads works to USAID and IDB.  Furthermore, the
implementation of the labor-intensive works program was contingent upon a determination
that such works were economically justified. SEOPC decision not to proceed with the rural
roads program was based on the findings of preliminary results obtained during the
implementation of the Second Project, which indicated that labor-based works on rural roads
did not appear viable in the Dominican Republic because of relatively high opportunity cost
of labor, given the need to employ many laborers to complete such works.
27.   The validity of the conclusion presented in the preliminary report was questioned in
the Project Completion Report prepared for the Second Road Project dated February 1992.
The report stated that: "the rural roads project was underfunded as the Borrower persistently
failed to provide sufficient local funds for the execution of the scheduled works. As a result,
only 100 km of the originally agreed 200 km of rural roads works were completed under the
Second Project and the program never generated enough information to determine if, in fact,
labor intensive techniques were more socially cost-effective.  The financial costs of
construction were shown to be higher as a result of the extra use of labor. However, without
taking into account national parameters such as conversion factors, social accounting prices
and shadow wages it was impossible to ascertain the success of the program". In retrospect,
the lack of Borrowers' support for this component during two successive projects was evident
but, apparently, this was not perceived at appraisal of the Third Road Reconstruction Project.
F.    Project Results
28.   The four-year extension of the Closing Date made possible the completion of the
project although the project fell short of achieving some institutional targets. The status of
the Project at its completion was the following:
(i)  Road reconstruction works programs:  A total of about 204 km of road
reconstruction works of acceptable quality were completed (instead of the
scheduled 150.6 km), after three additional road sections, totalling 52.8.0 kms
were added to the program, namely, Guerra-Bayaguana (24 km), Bayaguana



- 11 -
Monte Plata (19.9 km) and Cruce-Autopista Duarte (11 km). In general, the
quality of execution was acceptable. However, it is estimated that some roads
will soon need periodic maintenance to preserve their structural integrity 2,
due to the use of less than adequate paving techniques during their
construction.
(ii)  Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment and Spare Parts was completed
with substantial delay in 1989. The list, prepared at appraisal, comprising
equipment to be purchased with the proceeds of the Loan, had to be modified
during project implementation to better attend the then SEOPC's current
needs. This was necessary in view of the quick attrition of SEOPC's existing
equipment (especially pickups), for lack of timely maintenance. Procurement
comprised (a) purchase of equipment, trucks, pickups, trailers and auxiliary
equipment to support SEOPC's road maintenance works program; (b) spare
parts to re-enforce the equipment management system to carry out repairs and
scheduled overhaul of SEOPC's existing equipment fleet; and (c) the purchase
of workshop tools for equipment overhaul and repairs.   Equipment
management has improved, although not at a satisfactory level for lack of
adequate maintenance. Road maintenance also needs to be reinforced in the
future. The strengthening of equipment management and road maintenance
is continued under Loan 3350-DO.
(iii) The Transport Planning and Management Study was completed and
determined the bases for a rational approach to planning inter-sectoral
transport activities. However, SEOPC's support for transport planning was
not firm. SEOPC assigned fewer staff than was expected to attend training
sessions offered by technical assistance consultants who prepared a detailed
and comprehensive study with guidelines for the collection and processing of
information required for planning, programming and monitoring inter-sectoral
transport policies, and for the preparation of three-year transport investment
programs on a systematic and continuous basis. The consultant's report was
accepted by SEOPC but its recommendations regarding inter-sectoral transport
planning and management were not followed.  Apparently, SEOPC's
management was not convinced of the practicability and usefulness of the
study in the framework of SEOPC's operations and an inter-sectoral transport
planning system was not implemented. However, SEOPC was interested in
and supportive of carrying out road condition inventories using equipment
purchased for this purpose under the project. SEOPC's personnel from the
newly established Pavement Evaluation Department was trained by consultants
in the use of the Benkelman beam and the Mays Meter to obtain data on the
strength of the existing pavements and the deterioration of their sufface. The
2.   In particular, tho roads whoae works were initiated under the Second Road Maintensce Projoct.



- 12 -
data was then entered in the Bank's HDM model to rationalize, prioritize and
program future road investments.
(iv)  The labor-based works program for rural roads:  Implementation of the
program under the Project was contingent upon an interim determination that
labor-based works were economically viable in the Dominican Republic.
Since preliminary findings made during a review of the results obtained under
the Second Project indicated that a labor-intensive approach was not viable,
given the relatively high day-rates paid to Dominican laborers, SEOPC opted
not to proceed with the implementation of labor-based rural roads works. The
component was excluded from the Project at the Borrowers request, with
Bank approval.
(v)   The Bituminous Pavement Technology program for upgrading, through a
functional training program, the capability of SEOPC and the domestic
construction industry in carrying out bituminous surface seals and overlays,
was deferred to be carried out under the follow-on project financed under
Ln.3350-DO.
29.   Compliance with the covenants was generally satisfactory. With regard to the Bank's
requirement that the Project Special Account be opened with the Banco Central on
December, 1986, and maintained in US dollars annual audits of the project accounts
revealed a need for improvement of internal accounting controls to avoid the possibility of
compromising the accounting system's ability to register, process and summarize financial
data, and to preclude the detection of errors or irregularities. Many entries had no back-up
information, and there was a lack of evidence that accounting entries had been verified and
approved independently, creating a risk of irregular entries. Auditors also recommended that
all paid bills be so marked to avoid the possibility of making double payments. The above
problems have since been addressed by SEOPC.
30.   Technical assistance for equipment management was given successfully by a firm
whose experts trained SEOPC's workshop personnel. The training also encompassed topics
concerning (a) the responsibilities and duties of workshop personnel, (b) equipment
operation, (c) preparation of equipment condition inventories needed for decisions regarding
the timing of equipment replacement and disposal, and (d) other administrative and technical
functions which were described in the Equipment Management System Manual. The training
was useful and is continued under the follow-on Bank's Project, at SEOPC's request.
G.   Project Sustainability
31.   Sustainability of the efforts to bring about institutional improvements within SEOPC,
which proved elusive in the past, should improve due to the Bank's continued financial
support for the road sub-sector under the Fifth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project



- 13 -
(Loan 3350-DO). Bank staff responsible for the oversight of the project's implementation
have established a productive dialogue with SEOPC. This dialogue has induced SEOPC to
give more attention to technical and institutional problems which delayed implementation of
past projects. Engineering design and procurement procedures improved markedly during
the last phase of the implementation of the of the Third Road Project (Loan 2609-DO) and
the first phase of the follow-on Fifth Project (Loan 3350-DO). It is reasonable to expect
that, in the short-term, the problems of the past will not be repeated under the follow-on
project (Loan 3350-DO). Nevertheless, sustainability over the long term remains uncertain
as long as many of SEOPC's staff may be replaced for lack of tenure after national elections
when a new Government accedes to power. Under the present system, most of SEOPC
technical and administrative senior staff may have to leave when a new Government is
installed in office, depriving SEOPC of its depository of institutional experience. The lack
of institutional memory within SEOPC is costly, given the need for extensive on-the-job
training of new personnel appointed by each incoming Government.
32.   Sustainability of improvements achieved under the Project is of particular importance
as it affects the results of the project's economic justification. In the case of road projects,
sustainability should be ensured by borrower's commitment to carry out timely road
maintenance programs after the project is completed to prevent both an untimely
deterioration of the road's condition and the corresponding reduction of road users' economic
benefits.
H.   Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
33.   Preparation and Appraisal. The project's scope was appropriate for the country's
needs, but the time allowed for its implementation was unrealistic based on Bank's past
experience with the implementation of the previous road projects with similar scope (1976
and 1983). It would appear that the Bank assumed incorrectly that the engineering and
contracts for the project's works were free of problems, given that the engineering was
revised by local consultants and used by SEOPC for contracting the reconstruction works
under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. In light of past experience,
it would have been reasonable at appraisal to make a detailed review of the quality of the
engineering by an independent qualified engineer to ensure that consultants revisions were
updated, complete and satisfactory. This review would have noted the need for better project
quantity take-offs and for additional borrow pits containing suitable road construction
materials. It would have allowed the mission to request SEOPC that appropriate measures
be taken to avoid project implementation problems due to inadequate supply of construction
materials, which created a serious problem during the implementation of the Project.
34.    Given the lack of significant institutional improvements within SEOPC, it would
have been reasonable at appraisal to expect that administrative problems, similar to those
experienced on past projects might continue. It would have been prudent, therefore, to
prepare the Project with more attention to: (a) Government's ability to provide required



- 14 -
counterpart-funding in the context of its financial commitments for other projects; (b)
discuss project programming and coordination issues in the event of unavailability of
counterpart funds; and, (c) re-confirm SEOPC's commitment to providing financial and
institutional support for labor-based works.
35.   Project supervision absorbed about 73.1 staff weeks during the implementation
period, mid-1986 to mid-1993. There were no supervision mission during the period
November 1990 and July 1991 due to suspension of Bank disbursements. About ten field
supervision missions visited the Dominican Republic. Bank supervision reports noted the
problems affecting the Project and made recommendations to improve implementation. The
overall project performance rating was 2 on a scale of 1-4, denoting problems which were
being addressed. The supervision reports issued before 1989, were focused more on the
administrative aspects of the Project and were not informative regarding the quality of the
contractors' works.
36.   Lessons Learned. The lessons from this Project are not unlike those learned from
SEOPC's previous road projects which had similar objectives. The problems which hindered
the implementation of previous projects were similar to those experienced during
implementation of the Third Road Reconstruction Project, giving an impression that the
project appraisal team had not availed itself of the lessons of past experience that might have
helped to prevent the repetition of past problems.
1.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
37.   Borrower Performance. An important factor contributing to the problems which
affected implementation of the Project was that due to the change of the Government, many
of SEOPC key personnel who participated in the preparation of the Project were replaced
by newly appointed staff who were not familiar with the Project. The new administration
was, in general, supportive of the Project and, in particular, of the road reconstruction
program, the major component of the project in terms of investment, whose completion was
given highest priority. The implementation of other components, including road maintenance
and institutional strengthening was considered important but had lower priority ranking.
38.  In retrospect, project administration should have given more emphasis on: (i)
measures necessary to accelerate implementation of the Project by improving coordination
of the project's construction activities including, among others, timely expropriation of
private properties and relocation of utilities which was necessary for contractors to proceed
with their works;  (ii) contractors' performance, making contractors accountable for
unauthorized delays that often caused deterioration of unfinished road works that were left
unprotected against inclement weather, and later required additional corrective works,
increasing the project's cost; (iii) closer monitoring of the quality of the works and timely
preparation of annual road maintenance programs; and, (iv) emphasis on better financial
control and accountability for advances given to poorly performing contractors.



- 15 -
39.   SEOPC efforts to overcome implementation problems caused by deficient engineering
designs, compounded, at times, by changes in the scope of the contracted works, were to no
avail because some of the contractors had no adequate equipment, lacked the required
financial capacity, and possibly, experience.  Timely payments to well performing
contractors for the works they had completed might have improved the contractors'
performance.
40.   The nature of some delays has been described by supervisory consultants in their
monthly progress reports. Implementation of the reconstruction works on the Moca-Salcedo-
Tenares gives an insight into the problems associated with SEOPC'S administration of
contracts in past projects and during the first years of implementation of this Project:
41.   SEOPC signed the contract for the reconstruction of the Moca-Salcedo-Tenares (19km),
sections of the Santiago-San Francisco de Macoris road, on February 5, 1981. In April 1981,
SEOPC asked the contractor to defer initiation of the works, given that, except for certain specific
sections which required some intervention, the road was considered by SEOPC to be in, generally,
good condition. On July of 1981, SEOPC decided, following heavy rainfalls which deteriorated the
condition of the road during May-July, that the works could be re-started based on a modified project
prepared by SEOPC which was estimated at RD$4.5 million, yet SEOPC did not authorize the
contractor to proceed with the works for lack offunds. On June 1982, SEOPC and the contractor
signed an addendum substituting the original contract and mandated the contractor to modify the
original engineering project to obtain substantial cost savings (cost reduction) without compromising
the quality of the project, and to ensure that the total cost would be less than RD$4.5 million. On
August 1982, the contractor received an initial advance of RD$0.3 million or 34% of the total agreed
advance of RD$889,092.27 to initiate the works. In September 1982, the contractor received and
additional payment of RD$0.3 million on account of the original advance but refused to start works
until the advance was paid in full. The contractor continued idle until January 1983, when SEOPC
ordered it to start the works while redesigning the project to 'maximize savings'. In May 1983,
SEOPC gave the contractor a work plan for road drainage and initiated discussions regarding the
plan's cost. On August 1983, both parties signed an Addendum No.2 declaring null and void
Addendum No.1 to the original contract which was signed in February 1981. The Addendum called
for the completion of the works in 18 months (by February 1985); the value of the contract was
RD$3.8 million and the contractor received the yet unpaid portion of the RD$O.9 million advance.
In November 1983, the contractor started excavating works to the depth required in the plans. When
requested by the works supervision engineer to excavate more material than was originally provided
for, the contraaor requested that in-situ organic materials be tested to determine proper excavation
program, and suspended works. As the contractor was not working, the supervision warned it that
his contract could be rescinded. In July 1984, SEOPC seized contractors's equipment and instituted
contract recision proceedings. In March 1985, SEOPC reached an understanding with the
contractor's bonding company that the contractor would resune the works, but nothing happened
from April to July 1985. In August of 1985, the contractor submitted to SEOPC a proposal whereby
he would associate with another contractor to resume the works, yet nothing transpired during the
period from September 1985 and December 1986, except that SEOPC maintained the road to make
it transitable. In December 1986, the Secretary of SEOPC took the initiative to resolve the problem.
Addendum No.3 was prepared to update prices in contractor's old contract, and the contractor
received another advance. In July 1987, the contractor started the works; his production was poor



- 16 -
and the contractor was not capable to terminate the works as agreedfor lack of heavy equipment and
working capital. In one instance, contractor could not proceed with the works because SEOPCfailed
to obtain authorization to expropriate a house whose removal was necessary for the contractor to
widen the road. To speed up progress, SEOPC insisted that the contractor subcontract works on the
Salcedo-Tenares section and the widening of some small bridges. In March 1988, sub-contractors
started the works which were suspended again in 1989. Finally, the contract was rescinded with the
principal contractor and the works split in three parts (one for construcion or rehabilitation for
bridges and two for different road sections) and awarded to small contractors. The works were
completed in 1991.
42.   Implementation of other components also suffered delays.  According to the
implementation schedule agreed at appraisal, procurement of maintenance equipment, tools,
spare parts, and technical assistance for maintenance operations and training should have
been carried out shortly after the Project became effective (November 7, 1986), yet a year
later, an Aide Memoire dated October 9, 1987, prepared by SEOPC and the Bank's
supervision mission, indicated that neither had such procurement been initiated, nor a
detailed program for maintenance of SEOPC's road network for 1988 had been prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
43.   Lessons learned.  SEOPC  should modernize its institutional structure to be
responsive to the demand for its technical and administrative services to coordinate
implementation of road transport sector projects. Building upon its past experience, SEOPC
should: (a) strengthen the planning and programming of all its road related activities, road
maintenance in particular; (b) improve its accountability for the cost and quality of all road
related activities; and, (c) monitor cost-effectiveness of the resources invested in the
management of the road network. The lesson is that to avoid the waste of valuable scarce
financial resources, it is important to initiate road works based on a reliable preparation of
engineering designs, adequate planning and programming of the required financial and
logistic support and the selection of experienced contractors and engineers responsible for
the supervision of the works who have a bona fide construction experience.
J.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
44.   During the initial phase of the project (1986-1988) the Bank-Borrower relationship
was appropriate but rather ineffective, if measured by the progress made during that period
of the project implementation. There was a significant improvement of the project's
implementation from mid-1989 onwards, after the Bank intensified its oversight of the
project's implementation with additional, newly appointed Bank staff. The improvement was
a result of: (a) more intensive Bank supervision; (b) establishment of a productive dialogue
between SEOPC and Bank staff; (c) stronger commitment of SEOPC's managers and its staff
to implement the Project as they became more familiar with the project objectives; (d) better
familiarity with Bank's policies and, in particular, Bank procurement procedures; and, (e)
improved availability of local funds. The improved dialogue led to the preparation of the
follow-on project to ensure continuation of gains made under this Project.



- 17 -
K.   Consulting Services
45.   Technical assistance services were provided by local and foreign consultants in critical
areas. Local consultants supervised road reconstruction works. A foreign consultant led a
consortium of four firms contracted for the preparation and implementation of the transport
planning management system and staff training in the formulation of transport policies;
Other specialized firms of foreign consultants assisted in improving workshops and
stockrooms; trained SEOPC personnel in planning and in programming road maintenance.
Individual consulting experts provided hands-on training for SEOPC staff in the preparation
of road condition inventories, using equipment measuring pavement deflections and surface
roughness, which data combined with other pertinent data was used to determine priority
ranking for road investments required for the conservation and improvements of the existing
road network.
46.   Technical assistance provided by consultants was, in general, satisfactory, and helped
SEOPC organize an effective Pavement Evaluation Department. The department assisted in
the preparation of the project financed under Bank Loan 3350-DO. Assistance to strengthen
maintenance management system comprised: (i) training for SEOPC personnel in the
preparation of detailed road inventories and needs surveys to define maintenance priorities;
(ii) preparation of annual works programs and their scheduling; (iii) development of
maintenance performance standards to assess productivity of the crews; and, (iv) the design
of a reporting system covering daily road maintenance activities.
47.    Technical assistance for the supervision of the road reconstruction works on the
Bayaguana-Monte Plata and Moca-Autopista Duarte awarded in 1990, was satisfactory.
Consultants supervising other road projects kept acceptable records of the works' progress
but lacked experience to assist contractors in resolving day to day construction problems.
This was the case of local consultants who were unable to retain, for lack of funding, the
services of its foreign associates, a firm specialized in the supervision of road construction
and maintenance works.
L.   Project Documentation and Data
48.   Data needed for the preparation of the PCR were generally available in Bank files,
including the project preparation files, Bank supervision reports, aide memoires, and the
quarterly reports, all of which were helpful. Legal documents, including the Loan
Agreement, were appropriate for this operation and useful during the project's
implementation.



- 18 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Report
A.   Background
1.          The principal focus of SEOPC policy since 1976, has been on road
reconstruction. The policy had the support of the leading international financial
organizations, including Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
2.          The First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Loan (1316T) granted by the
World Bank included the rehabilitation of the 19-km road section from the bridge over the
Camw River to the intersection with the road to San Francisco de Macoris (Autopista
Duarte). The completion of the 19 km of reconstruction works took slightly more than three
years.
3.         In 1979, an appraisal report was prepared for the Second Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project.  The Project included 150 km  of road reconstruction.
Coincidentally, two hurricanes named David and Frederick, caused devastating damage in
September 1979. This made it necessary for the Dominican Republic's Government to ask
the World Bank for a special loan for the rehabilitation of additional 150 km of the roads
damaged by the storms. The required financing was provided under the Emergency Road
Reconstruction Project, (Loan 1783-DO), which became effective in early 1980. The Second
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (1784-DO) also came into effect in 1980.
Since the proceeds of the Loan 1783-DO covered about 70% of the works required under
the emergency program, some of the Loan 1784-DO funds were used for the completion of
the Emergency Project works. This arrangement was possible, because the implementation
of the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project was delayed, and the loan was
not disbursing since project implementation could not proceed due to serious engineering
design errors. The engineering had to be redone for most of the Second Project road works
program.
4.          By 1984, it was obvious that completion of the works started under Loan
1784-DO would require a supplementary loan and, in 1985, an appraisal report was prepared
for a new loan to finance the Third Road Reconstruction Project (2609-DO).
5.          The problems experienced with engineering design and financing shortfalls which
hindered the Emergency and the Second Projects, Loans 1783-DO and 1784-DO, respectively,
caused serious implementation delays which had an impact on the rate of return on the
investments, especially in the case of the Emergency Loan 1783-DO.



- 19 -
B.   Civil Works Implementation
6.          The Project road works totalling about 204 km, were packaged in four groups.
Group I (Santo Domingo-San Isidro, San Isidro-Boca Chica, Boca Chica-Los Llanos, Los Llanos-
San Pedro de Macoris and Boca Chica-Boca Chica) included 64.6 km; Group II (Santiago-Moca,
Moca-Salcedo, Salcedo-Tenares, and Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris) 53.3 km; Group III (San
Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de Farfan) 53.3 km; and Group IV (Guerra-Bayaguana,
Bayaguana-Monte Plata and Autopista Duarte-Moca) 54.8 km.
Group 1.   In addition to the delays caused by deficient road engineering, Group 1 projects
also had a very specific problem, namely: the shortage of locally available borrow-pits with
sufficient quantities of road construction materials that complied with the required specifications.
To satisfy specifications, the local materials had to be stabilized. The only alternative was to
import materials from distant borrow pits. Thus, SEOPC faced a difficult decision, given that
stabilization of locally available materials meant additional construction costs, which were likely
to translate into a larger share of counterpart financing, whereas an option to haul aggregates
from the Haina River (west of Santo Domingo) had both the disadvantage of a long haulage
distance (about 64 kmn) and the potential to cause damage to the streets in towns which would
be exposed to heavily loaded trucks hauling Haina River gravel to the works sites. In light of
these considerations, SEOPC decided to stabilize the required locally found road construction
materials.
Group 2.   With the exception of: (a) the Santiago-Moca section, which reached 98%
completion under the Second Project, (Loan 1784-DO) whose design problems were quickly
resolved (together with the problems affecting the relocation of Moca's water supply pipes of
the Moca Aqueduct, which brought the road works to a standstill for a few months); and (b) the
Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris road section, which reached 80% completion during the same
period, the completion of the remaining road sections in this group took 6 to 10 years. The
contractors original contract for the unproductive sections was modified on several occasions to
no avail and, finally, it was necessary to subcontract the completion of these modifications
because the original contractor was unable to carry out the works.
Group 3.   Works on the San Juan-Las Matas highway were carried out by a contractor at
a very slow pace, even though there were no engineering design errors when the works begun
with financing from Loan 1784-DO. However, implementation was stopped when the loan funds
became depleted. The works were resumed when Loan 2609-DO became effective in late 1986
and completed almost two years later.
Group 4.   The roads in Group 4 were not part of the original works program. They were
included when it was established that the original project costs were lower than estimated.
Although during the implementation of these works there were some shortcomings on the part
of the contractors and the supervisory personnel, an improvement was observed in the working
relationship between local contractors and the supervisors who participated in the sub-projects
in the first three Groups.



- 20 -
C.   Upgrading of Rural Roads
7.         In this area of activity, SEOPC took into account the lessons learned from the
Second Project (Loan 1784-DO), comprising construction and rehabilitation of 100 km of rural
roads, which were part of a program which comprised 200 km. These roads were constructed
and\or rehabilitated using labor-intensive approach, primarily in the northwestern region of the
country, including the northern sub-region (an economically depressed area) at the border with
Haiti. The program carried out under Loan 1784-DO, under the direction of specialists from the
German consulting firm GITEC GmbH (GER) demonstrated economic viability of this approach
and the possibility of generating or supplementing rural employment in depressed rural areas.
Nevertheless, the problems of counterpart financing experienced during the eighties, combined
with increased demand for logistic support and the need to engage many qualified SEOPC
technical experts to assist in the labor-intensive program, as compared with the traditional method
of hiring construction contractors, caused SEOPC to lose interest in proceeding with the
completion of the remaining 100 km, which was to be carried out under Loan 2609-DO. This
decision was approved by the Bank and the program was canceled.
D.   Procurement of Goods and Repair of Equipment
8.          A list of equipment procured under the loan was furnished to the Bank.
E.   Consulting Services
Workshops and Stockrooms
9.          Under the First and Second Road Loans, the highway maintenance consulting
services were provided by the firm of Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc., which had left behind a
most complete and documented methodology covering areas such as: activity programming and
budgeting of activities, cost accounting, equipment administration, workshop supervision and
stockroom management. SEOPC's problem was its inability to retain staff after providing them
with training.
10.        The equipment technicians, mechanics and stockroom personnel trained by
Jorgensen during Loan 1784-DO had already left by the time Loan 2609-DO became effective.
Under the program, the firm of Labarca y Plummer was hired to provide technical assistance
in workshops and stockrooms. Jorgensen continued providing assistance in training maintenance
personnel and programming of the works, but the system had already collapsed and the
technicians and staff who were part of the counterpart team was less quaified than those who
had received training under previous programs. As a result of the circumstances outlined above,
SEOPC has been losing its interest in this type of technical assistance and prefers to hire
individual consultants, whom it can use with greater flexibility to address specific problems at
hand, as they arise. Although Labarca y Plummer's trained some twelve equipment and
workshop technicians, the system was less well documented than the one introduced by



- 21 -
Jorgensen between 1978 and 1982 and, in terms of its usefulness, it was of no great benefit to
SEOPC.
Transport Study
11.          The same proved to be the case of the transport study that was carried out by the
consortium made up of Delcan (Canada), Jorgensen (USA), SAE (Argentina) and Sercitec (DR).
In this case, the consortium's effort was not adequate for its findings to be regarded as a
complete study, with the exception of the road rehabilitation planning and scheduling which
benefitted from data and analysis obtained from individual consultants, who were hired to assist
in the area of pavement analysis and application of the HDM model to produce a three-year
investment plan.
Works Supervision
12.         With regard to the services performed by consultants Sercitec and Hanson-
Rodriguez during their supervision of the road reconstruction works, it is true that SEOPC
countermanded, on a number of occasions, decisions made by consultants in the course of their
work; however, it is also true that the two firms failed, on a number of occasions, to
demonstrate the necessary determination to reinforce SEOPC's position. In SEOPC's opinion
it is necessary to re-enforce its institution's ability to qualify and monitor contractors and
supervisory consultants as a means to assess the extent to which SEOPC may depend on their
future services.
Pavement Evaluation
13.         The quality of consulting services provided to the Department of Administration
and Pavement Studies was excellent and the fruits of the Department's labors are unquestionable.
There is only one problem: of the people who were originally trained there is now only one
person capable of both coordinating the individual tasks that other technical specialists carry out
in the respective areas for which they were trained, and capable of supplementing this
coordination with sound evaluation and decision making with respect to the pavements under
study. At this time, the department is therefore counting on this person staying for the time
being, and to continue with his services to SEOPC.
11DM and Planning Models
14.         In the beginning, about seven people were trained in the use and interpretation of
the HDM model and also in the methods for preparing multi-annual programs and plans. By
the end of 1992 only about three of these were still with SEOPC, which, was sufficient to carry
out the economic appraisal work for projects, but could be lost in the future.



- 22 -
F.   Road Maintenance (1986-1992)
Road Rehabilitation
15.         During the period 1986-92,  SEOPC  made a significant effort in road
rehabilitation works. This effort comprised the repair of 1,106 km of paved roads, which were
rehabilitated at the rate of almost 185 km per year, not counting the 204 km financed under the
Loan. In contrast to the contractors who took over under Loan 1784-DO, the contractors who
worked on the projects that were funded by the Government were of a higher caliber and did
work that was generally acceptable. In many cases the contracts were awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, which ensured better prices for SEOPC and therefore, helped to stretch the
available funds. It should be pointed out that the rehabilitation program undertaken by the
Govemment during the period was also successful.
Routine Maintenance and Patching
16.         As far as routine maintenance and patching was concerned, SEOPC's performance
did not meet expectations, largely because the road network was in such a bad state that most
of the minor maintenance work proved to be more in the nature of emergency or crisis response
work needed simply to keep the roads open to vehicular traffic. Moreover, while information
on the quantities of works executed is not very detailed, it appears, from the information
available, that routine maintenance was carried out on an average of about 1,300 km of the
3,773 km system of paved roads and on about 1,116 km of unpaved roads. Most of this
maintenance consisted in cleaning the roadway and gutters on the paved network.
Periodic Road Maintenance
17.         Periodic road maintenance works, such as seals and overlays, on the paved
network, and gravel replacement, on unpaved network, were virtually nonexistent, largely due to
the fact of the poor condition of the roads mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Traditionally,
SEOPC's main focus, with regard to the road system, has been reconstruction, followed by the
provision of minimal levels of maintenance, once the road has been restored to good condition.
Hence, the tendency for SEOPC's traditional pavement engineering is to be highly conservative
in pavement design, which is based on rather unrealistic rates of increase in heavy traffic.
G.   Relations Between SEOPC and IBRD
18.         Relations between SEOPC and the Bank have traditionally been good and have
continued so throughout the life of the Loan. It is significant to note that SEOPC's interest and
support tends to increase with the execution of civil works projects and to wane somewhat with
technical assistance-type projects or during the preparation of preliminary reports for new
projects (appraisals).



- 23 -
19.         SEOPC's reduced ability to keep up with the monitoring of loans from an
administrative and financial point of view, particularly in terms of costs resulting from
uncertainties and disbursement delays and the dates for the contractual fulfillment of obligations,
has been an almost constant problem, which will need to be corrected in the future by
strengthening and systematizing the activities of the Department for Administration of External
Resources (DARE).
20.         As for the Bank, its policies seem to have become more flexible and this has
enabled SEOPC to develop a better mutual understanding with the Bank since the end of the
eighties, compared to the annoying rigidity that was the norm during the seventies, which was
when Loans 1316T-DO, 1783-DO and 1784-DO were approved.
H.   Economic Rate of Return
21.         As for the rate of return of the reconstruction projects, despite the problems
encountered with engineering design, which caused enormous delays and the presence of certain
contractors who were not qualified, the rate did not fall dramatically, because a rate of almost
24% had been estimated and at the time of the ex post evaluation the figure was about 16%.
It must be kept in mind that the program costs increased by 60.9%, which would tend to explain
most of the drop in rate of return.



- 24 -
PART II - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
[ Loan                Purpose           J|Year approved     Stus  If        Comments
1316-   First Road Maintenance and        Aug-1976     Completed   Price increases forced
DO     Reconstrucion project:                          by 1980    a reduction in the
Reconstrucion of a section of a                            scope of the project
road connecting the capital with                           since it took 2.5 years
Santiago, the second most                                  to achieve approval of
important city of the country: a                           the loan by Congress.
bridge rehabilitation program;
and support to the Road
Maintenance Department of
SEOPC.
1783-   Emergency loan for the            Jan-1980     Completed  Loan ran out offunds
DO     construction of two primary                     by 1983    with 70 percent of the
roads: Guayacanes-Santiago de                              works completed. Part
la Cruz (86 kms) and Azua                                  of the 1784-DO funds
Barahona (64 kmns) both damaged                            were used to complete
by hurricanes.                                             these works.
1784-   Second Road Maintenance and       Dec-1979     Completed  Labor-based program
DO     Reconstruction project loan was                 with Loan  for economic viability
amended to provide funds for the               2609-DO    study was 50%
completion of the works not                     funds      completed; the
finished under the Emergency                   in 1992,   remaining works to be
Project.                                      instead of  completed under the
1989, as   Third Road
scheduled    Reconstrucion Project
were not startedfor
lack of localfunds and
the component was
canceled.



-25 -
2. Project Timetable
[      &arnchma                   Date  '                 Date                     Date
I'____L___-'____ I__            Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Identification                May 1982                                       October 1982
Preparation Mission        November 1982       __May 1983
Appraisal Mission            October 1983                                   October 17, 1983
Loan Negotiations            March 1984        __May 31, 1985
Board Approvae                April 1984       __July 23, 1985
Loan Signature                July 1984                                     August 8, 1985
Loan Effectiveness        September 13, 1984       October 31, 1985        November 7, 1986
Project Completion          June 30, 1989         December 31, 1992        December 31, 1992
| Loan Closing            December 31, 1989      December 31, 1992~        December 31, 1993
7 lhe Bank approved thefourth extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1993, by amendment to the
Loan Agreement.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cunulatdve Esdmated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
F)Y      85    86       87        88        89        90        91        92 92X
Appraisal     0    9.0      20.0     33.0      35.8      35.8       35.8      35.8    35.8
Actual        0      0      9.5a     13.2      21.6      27.6       30.3      34.9    35.2
Actual as %
of EstImates   0     0       48       40        60        77        85         97    100(b)
"     Bank's deposit to the Special Account;
0       e Closing Date was extended to Dec. 31, 1993, to disburse the balance of th Loan of US$555,762 that was
committed to re-pay retention from payments made in the past by SEOPC as additonal performance security. The
re-payment was due by mid-1993, one year after the final acceptance of the works.



- 26 -
4. Project Implementation
A. Road ReconstuWox Proga
i) Civil Works                                                                             A)) kmJ
- Road Reconsruton                                              150                      204
Total Civil Works (kn-):                                          150                      204
u) Acqullsox of Equlpmnt  d Panr                               (No. Units)               No. Units)
-brication units                                                 4                        2
-Tow Tucks                                                       1                        3
-Asphalt Heating Plant                                           4                        2
-Damp Trucks                                                                             60
-Asphalt Distributors                                            4                        4
-Vibrating Compactors                                            2                       10
-Hand Compactors                                                30                        2
-Air Compressors                                                 2                        4
-Draglines                                                                                2
-Motorgraders                                                                             6
-Repair and Service Trucks                                       4                        2
-Backlhoes                                                       2                        2
-Chip Spreaders                                                  4                        4
-Station wagons                                                                           8
-pickups                                                                                 25
-Pickups(double cabin)                                                                    5
-raikrs                                                                                   2
-Motorcar                                                                                 1
-Compactors                                                                               4
-Crane Drucks                                                    1                        2
-Pavement Condition Measuring Equyment                         I set                    I set
-Portable Crushing Plant                                         2
-Diesel Ekltric Generator                                        2
-Stockpile Conveyor                                              6
-Dynamometer Set with Accessories                                2
-Spare Partsfor above Equimnt                                  Xa.                      xa.
- Total Number of Units:                                          75                       150
- Tot Equipment Cost.                                      (US$71 milion)*           (USSS. 8 millon)
C Instittonal Strengthening
- Establishment of the Pavement Evaluation Department  - To determine priorities    Study was completed
and reloued training for SEOPC personnel,            for road reconstruction
and periodic maintenance.
-Economic evaluation of labor-based works on rural roads  - Carry out road works on   Neither the works nor
Tech. Assist. for Maintenance Training A Finance.     100 kbs to colect data    the study were done
Support.
- Trainingfor application of bitwninous seals and overlays   - Trainng for SEOPC and  The progrmn was
domestic construction    deferred to follow-on
personnel                 projec
- Preparation of TRansport Planning and Management       Prepare intermodel       Study was prepared
System to rationalize investments in the sub-sector,          study            recommendations were
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   partly     implem ented
Including estimated US$3.9 million for spare parts



- 27 -
S. Project Costs and Financing
A. hV.cd Cas
0. USS mslWon)____ ______
-or~ -of -.r.. ,jr~o or.
A.     Roada
Work                   1 i7    30.9    69                                      8.            30.7   6Z
4Rd. ReconsL    10.7   18.6   29.3    66                                       8.    22.5   30.7   67
Rral Road,       0.5    1.1    1.6       4                                      0      0       0      0
N.A.
t  Good           0       8               19                                     Q      9 2    91 4    IL
Main. Equip.      0.1    3.3    3.4        7                                     0      9.2    9.2    20
Workshop toolo
qSara, equ(p.
jRtepain, Overhaul    0.2    5.0    5.2   12                                     a2     (b)    0.2     1
C. onune                                                NA.
Se nice       2LI    L3        5.2                                            Li    11       a     La
Wkr. uperwitoe,    1.1    0.3    1.4      3                                     1.0    0.6    0.7      4
a0     2.0    2.5       6                                      0     1.9    1.9      4
-7haUpPlwnning    a3      a7      1.0     2                                      0.2    1.7    1.9     4
MainL Operatdon
Tof Taled Cost   13 7    31.0    4 7     100                   N.A.                    35.8   45 7
Now,: Fgwrw may no add up o the total becaus of rounding.    CoSM inch de physical and price condngaecies.
'0 Deno anos   thAm US$100,000 or 'nil'



-28 -
B. Project Financing
,.    ,                      ,,           (US$ !                          .I)
IBRD                                     35 8000                        35800.0
1.  Il Work.e PanrA.1                   17,400.0
Pan A. 2                      1,100.0                        22,950.0
2. Ea&Dment. Spares & Tools
Panr B.                               6,800.0
Pan 1.2                                 300.0                         9,240.0
3. Consutant,
S&rwtce                                6,300.0                         3,420
4. raWLngfor Part B2                      200.0           NA              190
5. Unallocated                           5,7000                      *Reallocated to
components 1-4
Co-finanine or other eternal sources      NA.             NA.             NA.
Domestic                                 8,900.0                         9,876.0
44,700.0         N.A.          45,676.9
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
indkaeon                       f 0  iApprasd   tma                            Estimated   C losing DaUt
(a) Road Mannanc and       Prervadon of the road networ* and     _      Road  ers arm benefn h  nanc al terms and covnfonrt
Rehabiatdon Wor*           improvement of te pavement suface roughnes  fn Improved surface condidons of 204 kbs of roads
Program.                   to reduce vehick operadng costs.             which were reconstructed under the project.
(b) Puchaae of road       Improvenent of SEOPC's logistic supportfor   Acquiston of new equipment helped SEOPC to improw
maintenance equipmentfor   carrying out road maintenanc warks.          the effciency of its maintenance operadons.
SEOPC.
(c) Insditudonal           Strengthening SEOPC's insdtudonal capacityfor   (J) in addidon to the 204 kw of project roadt, SEOPC
l,provements through       road maintenance planning, programming,      rehabiUfated under contract about 1100 kms of road, from
traWng given by foreign    scheduling and the monitoring of road        1986 to 1992. Roudne maintenance to improve roads'
Consultants,               maintenance acdvides and accountabiliy through   drainage was carred out on paved and unpaved roads,
the establishment of a Maintenance Management   however, periodic maintenane was limited. Th reason is
System; Equipment Management System and a   the Government's preference for overdesigning road
Pavement Evaluadon Deparnment.              pavement bearing capacity, to reduce maintenance.
Estabshment within SEOPC of a Policy and     (2) Coomputetrzadon of the cost accouning system is being
Plamning Office to radonalze, prioridze and  completed under the foUow-on project.
make cost-efficient, in economic term,
investments, taking Into accomn all otanspon  (3) 7he Policy and Planning Office, assisted by a
subsectors.                                 conuant, conducted economic vluatadon of aU road
Invesmnts included under the foUow-on project. A
roUing Five-Year Investment Plan was an integral pan of
thdi project.



- 29 -
B. Economic Impact
Te methodology usedfor te econoic evaluadon of te Project at appraisal was baed on user cost sa Wngs calcula  as te diference beawen
vehicl operatng cost with ad wthout the road amprovemena  The naur of road inves,et did not %umt the use of a sophisdcated modeL
Average daiy trqic vol     were detened inNovemberJ1983-wuwaryl984andagrowth rate of 5percent was assumed. Thepostevaluadon
was caried out ung the same modeL Costs wad traffic assumpdons wrereplaced w7th actual costs and traffic data deermined aJer compkdon
of he Project. Whil t total cost over-n  of the Project was within physical andpricc condngencies, the traffic data showed in generalhlgher
lvels of trafic.  he overall economic rates of eturn for th Road Maintenance and Rehabifitation componen esaimated at appraisal and ar
the completon of te Project are giwn below:
OveraU Proram Evaluaon              Avprtulal &tisnaw   _Aer ProLece Comokdon
Ove-l Economic Rat a f                      24 1-f:r6%-



- 30 -
7. Status of Loan Covenants
SECTION                                                    COVERAN
L  The Borrower compied with the foUowing financiaL/administraive ciauses of loan contract No. 2609-DO.
2.02 (a)             -Loan withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement.
3. 01 (c)            -Estabishment and maintenance of a Project Account in th Banco de Reservas.
3.02                  -Cnrry out procurement of the goods, works and consuLtants services In conformance with the providons of
Schaeuk l4 o the Loan Agreement.
3.03 (c)             -By June 30 of each yearfurnish to the Bank detaied road maitenance program inciuding periodic
maintenance and reconstrucdon for a minimum of 350 kins per year (with delays)).
4. 1 (a)             -Maintain records and accounts in respect of the Project of the departments of agencies responsibk for
carr ying out she Project of any pan thereof
4. 01 (b) (f)        -Have such accounts  dIcluding the Special Account and the Project Account for each fiscal year audited
(b) riii)         -Furnish to the Bank any such informnaton on Project accounts as the Bank may request.
4. 01 (c.i)          -For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested on the basis of SOE, maintain
separate records and accouns for such expenditures.
(i)              -etain aU recordsfor one year afier the Cosing Date.
(iil)           -Enable the Bank representwaive to examine such mords
(iv)            -Cause to be maintained separate records and accountsfor all expenditurs. Ensure that such separate
accounts are included in the annuai audit report and that the report contains, in respect of such separate
accounts, a separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the proceedsi of the Loan withdrawn have
been used for the purposefor which they have been provlded.
5. 01                 -EAsablish and maintain unati Cosing Date a Project Accowut in Pesos, depositing therein S750,000
I (condition of effecdveness)
11. 7he Borrower partialy complied with thefoUowing financial/administratve clauses of the said loan contract:
2.02 (b)             -Opening and maintaining Special Account with the Central Bank of the Dominican RepubUc in
US doUars. Compliance suffered some delays.
2.03                  -Closing Date of the Project was extended four times, to December 31, 1993 with Bank consent.
3. 01 (a)             Commitment to the objecdtves of the Project as setforth in Scheduk 2 to the Loan Agreement (problems with
dtmly preparation and executon of annual road maintenance programs due to financial constraints)
3. 01 (b)             Providion of annual budgesfor the Project for 1985 through 1989 (funds were allocated but over an
eended dm).
3.03 (a)              -Maintenance of (i) public roads network and repair of road maintenance equipment(mainte,ance was
unsatisfactory due to weaknesses in managing the progran..
3.03 (b)             -Make availabk, promptly as needed, aU funds,ffacies, serMces and other resourcesfor such maintenance
and repairs (ful compliance hindered by shortage of counterpartfunisd).
4. 01 (b) (il)        Furnish the audit report to the Bank not later than four menths aeftr the end of each such year (audit reports
werefurnished with delays).



- 31 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
-FY.          83     84    8s    86    87    88         89      90      91     92     93     9       .
8's -f ONoy6t:                                                                           
Odle
Through          1.4    4.2   16.9    -               -      -                                           22.5
Appraisal
Appraisal               34.7    -       -             -      -       -      -       -             -      34.7
through Board
Approyd
Board Approval            L2     -      -             -      -       -      -       -             -      Q2
ough
Iecnveness
Supervision                            3.2   13.4   13.7   16.1   12.2    2.7    4.6    5.4    1.8       73.1
ToAl             1.4   39.1   16.9   3.2   13.1   13.7  16.1   12.2    2.7    4.6    S.4    1.8    130.5
B. Missions
Stage of Prfjnts MAlhYear            Nwmber of      Days In Fke     Speizado.        Pafo            -- -type    -
0b)
7hrough Appraisal       11/83            2              10             Ec En             .a.
1184            S              12         2Ec, IEn, IFa.        na.             na
1ITrS
Appratsal through        6184            2               8             Fa, Ec            nLa.            na
Board approval
Board approval          9/84             1               4              EC                3.             M
through Eecdivene
Supervision             12/86            2               9             En, Ec             2             M,P
10/87            2              11            En, E              2             M, P
2/88            1               5              EC                2            M, F, P
7/88            1               6              En                2            M, F, P
1/89            2              10             En, EC             2            M. F. P
7/89            3              12           Ec, En, Fa           2            M, F, P
10/89             2              3             Ec, En,            2              M, F
10190            3              3           Ec, En, Fa           3             M, F
7191            1               6              an,               2            M, F,
6192            1               5              En                2             M, F
11n92            2              4          En. Proc. ASSL        2             M. F
5/93            1               5              a                 2             M, F
"Spedalists: Ec  economist; En - engineer; Fa - fancial analyst; lr- transportation specialist; n. a - not applcabl.
' Rating: I - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems; 4 - Major problems not being addressed.
v 7ype of probems: F = Financial; M - Managenal; P - Procurwent
v Combined  ith preparation missions for Loan 3350-DO. 7wo staffi two to three days in the fieldi n Ocober1989; tre st4ff
rwo to three days in he field in October 1990.



