Documefit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE Ofv Y
Report No. 4888b-DO
S'TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
"'INICAN REPUBLIC
THEhD ROAf 'ECONSTRUCTION PRO.7
.e 19, 1985
Proj ects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a resticted distirbution >d may be used by recipients only In the perlforjnnce of
thelir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aithorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency is expressed in Dominican Pesos (RD$) or US Dollars (US$) at
the estimated average floating unified axchange rate introduced in January
1985:
US$1.00 = RD$ 3.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units and Measures
1 meter (in)                = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 square kilometer (km2)   = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        = 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
I liter (1)                 = 0.264 gallon (gal)
Glossary of Abbreviations
APD      Dominican Port Authority
CEA      State Sugar Council
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FEC      Foreign Exchange Component
1CB      International Competitive Bidding
IDS      Inter-American Development Bank
IVA      Value Added Taxes
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
liB      Limited International Bidding
ONAPRES National Budget Office
ONATRATE National Office for Land Transportation
ONP      National Planning Office
OPD      Office of Programing and Development
SEOPC    Secretari,t of State for Public Works and Communications
'TP      Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    PROJECT SUWWA.R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
II.   TPv TRANSPORT SECTOR  .  .       .   * ...   . e      e o        3
A*    General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
B.  Ii.atitutional Framework. .   .  .        .   D  v           3
C.  The Transport Subsectors. . . . , . . . . . . . . .          4
(1)  Roads  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .         4
(ii)    Ports    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
(iii)  Railways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
(iv)  Pipelines  . . . . . . .  .   e                       7
(v)  Air Transport  . . .   . 9        . .  e             7
D. Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector          7
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
A.  Justification . . . . . .           . . .  . . . . . . . . a   .  8
B.  Objectives  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  e a . . v   .    9
C.  Description . . . .    . a   * . . .  . . . . . . .          9
{i)  Civil Works  .   . . . . . . .  .. . .               9
(ii)  Highway Maintenance  . . , , . . . . . . . .        10
(iii)  Transport Planning . . .         . .        .        11
(iv)  Rural Roads  . . . . .                       .      11
D.  Costs and Financing . . . .                                 12
E.  Economic Evaluation . . . . . . , . . . . . . e . .         13
Ci)  General  . . .                                      1 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
(ii)  Road Reconstruction  . . . . .  . . . . . .         13
F.  Project Risks . . . . . . . .         . .   . . . . .       13
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         14
A.  Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement  . . . .         14
B. Execution, Procurement, Monitoring and Auditing . .          16
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . .         18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited the Dominican Republic in October 1983, a post-appraisal
mission in February 1984 and a followup mission in November 1984.  The
appraisal missions were comprised of Messrs. Alberto Paz (Economist),
Jorge Lanas (Engineer) and Ernesto Henriod (Construction Industry
Specialist). Messrs. L. Schiffman (Engineer) and P. Gyamfi
(Economist) undertook the followup mission. The report has been
edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrorimance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaticon.



TABLE 0F CONTENTS (Continued) - ii -
Page No.
TABLES
2.1  Actual Expenditures by Public Sector Transport Agencies       20
2.2  Highway N2.'twork and Surface Classification ... . .  .       21
2.3  Feeder Road Network  .*. .. ..  .    , *     . .. . .         22
2.4  SEOPC's Road Maintenance Equipment by Age and Condition       23
2.5  Average Daily Traffic (ADT) and Vehicle Composition
on Highways (3 pages) . . . . . . . . . . .. .*    . . *     24
2.6  Evolution of the Motor Vehicle Fleet . . . . . . . . .        27
2.7  Road-User-Related Fiscal Revenues and Expenditures
on Roads         .        .....    ,                         28
2.8  Str.cture of Retail Prices of Automotive Fuels . . . .        29
2.9  Consumption of Road Vehicle Fuels  . . . . . . . . . .        30
2.10 Traffic Distribution among Principal Ports . . . . . .        31
4.1  Details of Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . a   . . .      32
4.2  Status of Project Components under Loan 1784-DO  . . .        33
4.3  Road Maintenance Equipment and Training (2 pages). . .        34
4.4  Implementatiou Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        36
4.5  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  . . . . . . . . .        37
4.6 Methods of Procurement by Project Component  . . . . .         38
ANNEXES
1.  Status of the Road Reconstruction Component  . . . . .         39
2.  Preliminary Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance for
Bituminous Surface Treatments  . . . . . . . . . . .         42
3.  Preliminary Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance to Implement a
Transport Planning and Management System  . . . . . .        44
4.  Basic Assumptions for the Economic Evaluation of the
Road Reconstruction Component . . * . . . . . . . . .        49
5.  Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File              .................           53
CHART
Organization Chart of the Secretariat of State for Public
Works and Communications - World Bank 25644
4AP
IBRD 17932R -- Dominican Republic - Third Poad
Reconstruction Project



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Dominican Republic.
Amount:         US$35.8 million.
Terms:         Repayable in 17 years, including a grace period of
four years, at the standard N'ariable interest rate.
Project        The proposed project consists of:  (i) completion of road
Description:   reconstruction works initiated under the Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1784-DO);
(ii) purchase of equipment, tools and spare parts for the
road maintenance fleet; (iii) technical assistance to improve
the planning, programing and executing capacity of the
Secretariat of State for Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC); (iv) technical assistance to domestic contractors
and SEOPC staff to improve road paving techniques;
(v) technical assistance to SEOPC for maintenance operations
and training, including support to SEOPC's maintenance
training school; and (vi) construction and improvement of
about 100 km of rural roads using appropriate construction
techniques.
Risks:         No major technical risks are involved in the implementation
of the project.  Designs of roads to be reconstructed have
beeu revised to reflect realistic standards and are complete;
works have been contracted and are under way. The only
significant risk is related to the overall fiscal situation
of the country and the possible difficulties to provide, on
time, the required counterpart funds. This risk is being
reduced by the provision of a special revolving fund for
local currency requirements.



2 
Estimated Project Cost:                          Local    Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)--
Road Reconstruction                        7.5        17.4         24.9
Rural Road Improvements                    0.5         1.1          1.6
Maintenance Equipment, Tools               0.3         7.1          7.4
and Spare Parts
Consulting Services                         1.9        2.6          4.5
Total Base Costs                             10.2       28.2         38.4
Price Contingencies                        3.5         2.9          6.4
Total Project Cost  1/ 2/                  13.7       31.0         44.7
Financing Plan
Government                                 8.9          -           8.9
IBRD                                       4.8        31.0         35.8
13.7       31.X         4477
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):        Fiscal Year   Annual   Cumulative
1986        9.0          9.0
1987       11.0         20.0
1988       13.0         33.0
1989        2.8         35.8
Rate of Return:
26%, including "sunk costs," on the full road reconstruction
investment, completion of which represents 65% of project costs.
1/ Columns may not total because of rounding.
2/ The project is exempt from duties and taxes.



- 3 -
II, THE TRANSPORT SECTDR
A.   General
2.01      The Dominican 'Uepublic covers the eastern two-thirds of the island
of Hispaniola in the Greater Antilles (Map IERD 17932k). It has an area of
at-ut 48,500 km2 and a population of close to 6 million, which is growing at
an annual rate of 3%.   The country is crossed by four mountain ranges
separated by fertile valleys. The major population centers are located in
the Cibao Valley (Santo Domingo and Santiago). The economy, essentially
primary and reliant upon the agricultural and mining sectors, depends
heavily upon an adequate transport system. Domestic transport consists
mainly of export commodities to the ports (sugar and minerals) and internal
trade in agricultural products from the Cibao Valley and industrial and
consumer goods from Santo Domingo.
2.02      The Dominican Republic has developed a relatively dense transport
network which includes about 17,000 km of roads, 1,700 km of railways, 80 km
of pipelines, 15 ports (three major ones) and nine airports (two with
scheduled international services). The transport sector accounts for about
6% of GPP. Because of the relatively small size of the country, the
location of its resources and its economic structure, average haul distances
are short (about 140 km). Highway transport is the most widely used mode,
antv the network provides access to ail major producing areas. Sugar cane is
the only commodity transported mainly by rail.
B.   Institutional Framework
2.03      The Secretariat of State for Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC, Chart 25644) is responsible for transport policy and planning.
Through its Directorate for Highways, it is responsible for all road con-
struction. Road maintenance is the responsibility of its Directorate for
Highway Maintenance. The Department of Ports and Uharves handles construc-
tion, maintenance and dredging in ports. Planning and coordination of the
transport sector have been weak, as evidenced by the largely uncoordinated
port and road infrastructure, the generally poor condition of most facili-
ties and the almost complete lack of data for effective planning and moni-
toring. SEOPC's budget, to a great extent, is not an effective tool for
fiscal planning and monitoring of expenditures. Because of legal
requirements, the Government budget, sent to and approved by Congress, must
be balanced. For political reasons, revenues are often deliberately
underestimated, since any revenues in excess of those included in the budget
are handled at the discretion of the Presidency through its Technical
Secretariat (STP). Budgetary allocations, consequently, do not reflect
reality. SEOPC's actual expenditures for the 1979-1984 period and their
relative importance with respect to total Government expenditures are shown
in Table 2.1. During the past four years, SEOPC's egpenditures have been,
on the average, 11% of total Government expenditures; close to 8% was used
for construction and maintenance of highways and feeder roads.



2.04      The present administration, which assumed office in August 1982,
took a first step toward basic transport planning by creating, in May 1983,
a special transport planning office directly attached to SEOPC, the Office
of Program:ing and Development (OPD). By starting, through this office, a
systematic and coordinated plaLniing effort covering all modes of transport,
SEOPC is expected to pursue rational. policies arnd an orderly decision-making
process. The performance of this office should help SEOPC to prepare for
its planned reorganization and eventual transformation into a Secretariat of
State for Tranisportation.
C.   The Transport Subsectors
(01) lRoads
2.05      The road network consists of 4,678 km of highways and about
12,600 km of feeder roads. Of these, 1,147 km (24%) are trunk (primary)
highways while 2,328 km and 1,203 km form the regional (secondary) and local
(tertiary) higlhway networks (Table 2.2). About 3,250 km of the highways
have paved surfaces, although many are in poor -ondition. Only 75% of the
highway network has received some maintenance, not necessarily adequate,
during past years, and the surface condition of 66% is poor.  Kaintenance
efforts have been mostly concentrated on that part of the network - about
2,500 km - upon which maintenance activities can be effective.  The rest of
the netwo7k, huilt some 30 years ago to rudimentary design criteria, is
badly deteriorated.  The roads are narrow, lack adequate drainage, are
easily flooded in the plains and tortuous in the hills and are kept open to
traffic only through emergency repairs. Although routine maintenance
activities are programeed, the uncertain availability of funds hinders
planning and executior, of regular maintenance.  Moreover, periodic
maintenance of the network is either inadequate or not carried out, with the
consequent accelerating deterioration and shortening of the life of the
roads. The situation with respect to feeder roads is equally critical.
About 80% of the feeder road network (Table 2.3) is seriously deteriorated.
Lack of equipment, a limited budget, inadequate planning and design and
ineffective maintenance practices have contributed to the poor condition of
the feeder road network.  However, the Government is placing increasing
emphasis orn maintenance of its road network. From an average expenditure of
15% to 20% of its highway allocations in the years 1980 to 1984, it is
expectlng to spend 25% to 30X of anticipated road allocations on road
mai11tenance during the period 1985-198B.
2.06      Highway construction anid engineering designs are the responsibil-
ity of SEOPC through its Directorate for Highways. A recent administrative
reorganization (May 1983) created the Directorate for Highway Maintenance
wlhic.h, until then, had been under the Directorate for Highways.  The new
Directorate is responsible for highway maintenance, both routine and
periodic, normally carried out by force account, and, since March 1984, for
the maintenance oF the equipment fleet (Table 2.4) and for workshops.
Highway designs ar-e carried out both in-house and under contract with
cO)Isultants. Construction is normally carried out by contractors, both
iocal aud foreign, although SEOPC has some construction capacity which it
r-erves mainly for emergency works.  No effective highway planning is yet
cnrried out, and the only available work programs are those related to
orngoing works or to projects for proposed external financing. OPD, the newly
rre.nted transport planning office (para 2.04), is expected to contribute
towzardl Improving this situation.



2.07       Studies, coxnstruction and maintenance of feeder roads are the
responsibility of the Directorate for Rural. Roads within SEOPCO. With 13SALI)
and IDB financing, this Directorate is building up its urgently needed
maintenance capability and, under a five-year program, is to maintaini 3,500
km and to rehabilitate 1,200 km of feeder roads.  Labor-intensive routine
maintenance was studied by consultants with USAID financing; methods were
recommended and partially implemented.  Under Bank financing (Loan 1784-DO),
labor-based construction is also being implemented, on a pilot basis, under
direct supervision of the Labor-Intensive Road Construction Unit of SEOPC's
Directorate for Rural Roads, assisted by expatriate consultarnts. However,
lack of timely budgetary support has reduced productivity, increasing unit
costs. To eliminate these cash flow problems, the Bank (May 1984) increased
the disburse.ment percentage from 63% to 100% under Loan 1784--DO.  In
addition, the Unit is testing intermediate technologies, i.e., carrying otlt,
with equipment, certain operations (trimming of the road bed, graveling and
compacting) which are least efficient by hand. Communal involvement, which
had not beeni sought earlier, is also being attempted and is expected to
reduce costs. With the flow of funds assured, further progress has been
made, and the consultants are presently compiling available data In order to
provide a definitive evaluation of the pilot program's cost-effectiveness.
2.08      SEOPC started systematic collection of traffic data only in 1981.
Information available for previous years is scarce and was obtained in tlle
course of special studies. Table 2.5 shows the traffic data for 1981, 1982
and 1983 as well as the vehicular composition (average of the three years).
Some inconsistencies are inevitable since the 1982 counting program was
adjusted based on the experience obtained during the previous year. Traffic
growth during both 1982 and 1983 was near zero, and preliminary information
(Table 2.5) indicates that there was little improvement in conditioiis in
1984, clearly reflecting the economic recession that afflicts the country.
Table 2.6 shows the composition of the motor vehicle fleet. Of the 56,778
freight veh' les registered in 1984, 11,000 units were trucks (80% with two
axles and six wheels, 6% with three axles and ten wheels and 14% with more
than three axles). The rest are pick-up type vehicles, which, together with
cars and jeeps, average 90% of the total fleet. The average age of the
truck fleet is about seven years. Recent origin and destination surveys
indicated that the 1982 freight traffic on trunk roads was about 9 million
tons.
2.09      A 13-ton load per single axle limit is enforced at seven weighing
stations, six permanent and one mobile. In 1984, 12% of the two-axle trucks
that were weighed exceeded the 13-ton per axle limit, Although overloading
occurs, the main problem is that most of the network was built for 9-ton
axles. Freight tariffs are regulated and established by Presidential
Decree, generally following requests presented by transport unions. SEOPC
assists the Directorate for Price Controls (Secretariat for Industry and
Commerce) in enforcing tariffs. For inter-urban passenger transport,
tariffs are set by the owners of the vehicles. About 9,100 vehicles form
the registered fleet for inter-urban passenger transport, 17% of which are
buses with diesel-powered engines. The heavy proportion of light
gasoline-powered vehicles is a serious cause of low fuel efficiency and high
operating costs.
2.10      The Government has systematically recovered more than 100% of
the investments and current expenditures on roads through user charges.



- 6 -
Table 2.7 shows the fiscal revenues obtained from taxes on gasoline and
lubricants, tolls, license plates, vehicle registration and transfers.
Other important charges, such as import duties on vehicles and spare parts,
further increase the difference between revenues and expenditures. Revenues
from taxes on gasoline in 1982 represented close to 9% of total tax
revenues. In February 1985, the Government increased the retail price of
both gasoline and diesel fuel to RD$ 3.95 per US gallon (RD$ 1.0435 per
liter) (Table 2.8), which exceeds the RD$ 2.4 per US gallon international
opportunity cost for both fuels. The demand for gasoline and diesel is
shown in Table 2.9.
(ii) Ports
2.11      There are, in the Dominican Republic, 15 commercial ports, of
which nine serve foreign trade, two serve tourism and four serve domestic
coastal traffic. Six ports are on the northern coast; the remaining nine
ports are on the southern coast. Three ports are privately operated and
provide services only to their own traffic: La Romana (La Romana Corp.),
Cabo Rojo (Alcoa), and Manzanillo (Instituto Agrario, a Government agency).
Data regarding operations of the ports are often not available.  However,
the excessive number of ports, the lack of specialization, the generally
poor condition of the infrastructure, and the limited amount of equipment
indicate low productivity, inadequate maintenance, and high costs.
2.12      Three ports serving the Santo Domingo area (Haina, Santo Domingo
and San Andres/Boca Chica) handle two-thirds of the foreign traffic,
which averaged about 5.3 million tons per annum in 1982/1983 (Table 2.10).
Haina is the principal port and is being expanded through construction of a
major container terminal, with IDB financing. Construction started in 1980
and is expected to be completed during 1985.
2.13      The Dominican Port Authority (APD), recently established, owns and
controls the ports of Santo Domingo (including the passenger terminal of
Sans Souci), Haina, and San Andres.  By law, APD should eventually control
all ports of the country. Its administration of the ports is limited to
general supervision, security, some storage and shore handling, and
administration of the lands and concessions. Most of the cargo handling is
done by private concerns.
(iii) Railwa-
2.14      The railway network is 1,725 km long and almost entirely devoted
to the transport of about 60% of the sugar cane production to the mills. Of
the total railway network, 1,036 km are owned and operated by the State
Sugar Council (CEA). The principal sugar mill - Central Rio Haina - has a
300-km rail network, with 15 seventy-ton diesel-electric locomotives and 800
freight cars. During the harvest season (180-200 days), 12,000 tons per day
arrive at the Haina mill. The other mills, located in the eastern and
western parts of the country, are served by a rail network of about 615 km,
with 39 locomotives and 2,400 freight cars.



- 7 -
2.15      Several private companies own and operate railways.  Of these, the
most important is La Romana Corp., which operates a network of 420 km and
provides transport to La Rotsana sugar mill.  Besides the sugar-oriented
railways, a Government-owned salt productioni company operates 33 km of track
close to Barahona; the Rural Institute (Instituto Agrario) operates, from an
old banana plantation to the port of Manzanillo, a 38-kn railway network,
and the ferronickel smelting plant (Falconbridge) operates a short 3-km line
carrying smelter residuals to dumping areas.
(iv) Pipelines
2.16      There are about 80 km of pipelines in the country.  of these, one
74-km line is owned and operated by Falconbridge to transport crude oil.
between the port of Haina anid its ferronickel smelting plant close to
Bonao. The remaining lines are short sections basically used for transport-
ing imported oil to storage tanks.
(v) Air Transport
2.17      There are four principal airports for international traffic:
Las Americas (Santo Domingo), Puerto Plata (scheduled flights), and  La
Romana and Santiago (chartered flights). The first two have runways of over
3,000 m long and are designed to accept B-747s. La Romana airport is
operated by La Romana Corp. for international charter flights. Its runway
is paved and 1,800 m long.  Santiago's airport is also paved and has a
runway cloge to 1,600 m long.  Santo Domingo's international airport is by
far the most important both for passenger and for freight traffic. In 1982,
88% of the passengers were handled by this terminal and 10% by Puerto
Plata. That year, the Santo Dominigo airport also handled 33,650 tons of
exports.
2.18      Regular services are provided by Dominicana de Aviacion and eight
foreign carriers. Dominicana de Aviacion operates entirely on international
routes. It has kept its share of the international passenger market more or
less constant at 35%. Domestic services, limited because of the small size
of the country, are provided by Alas del Caribe, the only domestic carrier
with scheduled flights.
D.   Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector
2.19      In the transport sector, the Bank has made three loans for road
reconstruction: the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1316-T-DO, U3$5.0 mi.llion, 1976) provided for the reconstruction of a
section of the main road conaectlng the capital with Santiago, the second
most important city of the Dominican Republic. Other components were a
bridge rehabilitation program and support to the Road Maintenance Department
of SEOPC. Project Performance Audit Report No. 3716 (Board Doc. No. Sec.
M-81-987) of 1981 indicated that project implementation generally dleveloped
as planned, but price increases forced a reduction in the scope of the
project since it took 2.5 years to achieve congressional ratificatLon and
effectiveness of the loan. The second Bank operation was an Emergency Road
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1183-DO, US$29.0 million, 1980). It supported
reconstruction of 150 km of hurricane-damaged roads, connecting agricultural
areas in the northwest with Santiago and in the southwest with Santo



Domingo. Because of its emergency nature, the loan was approved by the Bank
before fiuial engineering designs were available for the project. When these
were later completed and bids were received, it became evident, even after
lowering standards to obtain cost savings, that project costs would be about
50% above those estimated at loan approval. The Project Completion Report
(December 1984) indicates that beginning implementation of the project on
the basis of incomplete engineering work was the primary cause of l.ater
delays and cost increases, but that the project, when completed, remained
economically justified. The Second Road Mainteaance and Reconstruction
ProJect (Loan 1784-DO, US$35.0 million, 1980) provided financing to
reconstruct 150 km of priority primary and secondary paved roads, upgrade
maintenance operationis and investigate the utility of labor-based techniques
for rural road construction.  A technical assistance program on road
maintenance and training of maintenance personnel was also carried out under
this project, as a continuation of the prograom financed under the First Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loani 1316-T-I)O). Mechanics,
operators, field foremen and workers were trained, and operation manuals
were produced. The Closing Date for this loan is June 30, 1985.
2.20      When works of the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1783-DO) were 70% completed, the loan account was depleted, and the
Government, in order to meet agreed ceilings, particularly those related to
public sector spending, was unable to allocate the required funds to
complete the works. On April 20, 1983, the Bank approved an amendment to
the Loan Agreement of the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1784-DO) which included financing of some of the works included in the
Emergency Road Reconstruction Project. This amendment, resulting in the
expenditure of some of the funds originally intended for the Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project, caused an unfinanced gap of civil
works originally included under the Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project. The Government has requested that the Bank consider
a new project to secure financing of this gap and also to continue to
support improvement in maintenance planning, operations and training as well
as other institution-building and rural road construction efforts.
2.21      The Bank is supportitng the improvement of the sugar railroad
network in various areas of the country as part of the Sugar Rehabilitation
Project, Loan 1760-DO, US$35 million, 1979.  In addition, in December 1983,
another loan (Itabo Coal Terminal and Power Engineering Project, Loan
2369-DO, US$3.8 million) was approved by the Bank to finance the cost of
studies, technical assistance and detailed engineering for the proposed
Itabo Coal Terminal and for rehabilitation of the electricity generating
plants and distribution system. The loan became effective on February 14,
1985.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Justification
3.01      Bank support to the highway subsector in the Dominican Republic,
effective since 1976 (para 2,19), has focused, as this project continues to
do, on reconstruction of key links of the highway network, while building up
the capacity to maintain it. The Government, aware tha,t transport is
a critical production and marketing factor for the economy, which depends



- 9 -
heavily on production of primary goods, has assigned priority to road
reconstruction and requested continited Ba.Lk support. Moreover, in confront-
ing the current economic and financial crisis, there is a compelling need
for completing ongoing work programs, preventing roari deterioration and
developing capacity to plan and manage scarce resources allocated to the
transport sector. Bank assistance, which, because o1: the project's nature,
constitutes last resource financing, would not only allow che Dominican
Republic to secure benefits which otherwise would not be obtained in the
short term, but would also avoid losina the investments already made on
sections still to be finished and would enhance benefits of other ongoing
complementary investment projects. Furthermore, Bank assistance would
contribute toward providing the infrastructure required to promote private
investment in activities generating foreign exchange, efficient import
substitution and employment.
B.   Objectives
3.02      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to complete ongoing road reconstruction works originally
included in the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project and to support continued improvement of road
maintenance operations and training efforts and the rural
road reconstruction and improvement program; and
(b) to assist in developing adequate technical expertise in SEOPC
for transport planning and pavement management, including
assistance to SEOPC and the domestic construction industry in
improving paving techniques.
C.   Description
(i) Civil Works
3.03      The reconstructic-i of about 150 km of roads, initiated under the
Second Roaa Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1784-DO) and to be
completed under the proposed project, involves the following three roads:
(a) Santiago-San Francisco de Macoris (54.5 km);
(b) San Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de Farfan (31.5 km); and
(c)  Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macotis (64.6 km).
Contracts for reconstruction of these roads were awarded in 1981, on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Completion was then
scheduled for the end of 1983. However, execution of the works was delayed,
mainly because of inadequate designs. Further delays, almost leading to
work stoppage, occurred during the closing months of the previous
administration, when it became necessary to revise the contracts to reflect
changed designs and quantity estimates. The new administration, in office
since August 1982, moved to reactivate the project and reached agreement on
revised contract conditions in February 1983. However, approval of the



- 10 -
revised contracts was delayed since SEOPC lacked the necessary financing to
complete the works. When the Bank, after having given priority to financing
works under thie Emergency Road Reconstruction Project, Loan 1783-DO
(para 2.20), agreed to consider a new loan, the revised contracts were
approved by the Government and works were restarted. Details of the
irmplementation problems encountered as well as the current status of the
road works are Included in Annex 1.  Table 4.2 provides data concerning the
current financial status of Loan 1784-DO.
(ii)  Highway Maintenance                          '
3.04      Th-ough two successive projects, technical assistance was provided
to prepare and develop a maintenance management system. Standards for
routine maintenance works were developed, and engineers, foremen and workers
were trained accordingly. Although routine maintenance activities are
programed and partly carried out on sections of the highway network, the
uncertain nature of fund availability, coupled with low availability of
maintenance equipment due to shortages of suitable equipment and of spare
parts, hinders the performance of adequate maintenance. The proposed
project would include the provision of certain key pieces of equipment,
which would complement and upgrade SEOPC's present equipment fleet, allowing
proper maintenance activities to be undertaken effectively. A list of these
key items, which includes mobile lubrication and workshop trucks, portable
compactors and a mobile crane, is given in Table 4.3. In order to increase
the availability of SEOPC maintenance equipment (Table 2.4), the proposed
project would also provide for spare parts (Table 4.3) for the highway
maintenance equipment fleet in two ways: by assisting to set up an initial
stock and by providing the parts needed to carry out an equipment overhaul
program. For this latter purpose, workshop equipment and tools would also
be needed. SEOPC, through the technical assistance program for equipment
and workshop management completed under Loan 1784-DO, has prepared, taking
into account the funds available for highway maintenance, a suitable
equipment overhaul program and the lip- of spare parts, equipment and tools
needed (see Project File). SEOPC's workshop facilities, once properly
equipped, are adequate, and mechanics and operators are well trained and
qualified. A maintenance management system, developed under two Bank loans
(para 2.19), is in place, and continuation of technical assistance to aid in
bringing it to full operation would be included in the proposed project.
3.05      Several constraints have prevented adequate periodic maintenance.
One of the problems, which the project aims to address, has been the lack of
technical expertise to carry out surface treatments on roads paved with
bituminous material. Bituminous surface treatments should be a normal
period±c maintenance activity to prevent deterioration and to extend the
economic life of these paved roads. The lack of expertise concerning
surface treatments affects not only SEOPC's maintenance effort but also
initial pavement construction by the domestic construction lndustry, which
lacks the ability to carry out technically sound surface treatments. The
proposed project would include a technical assistance program for field
engineers from the Directorate± for Highway Maintenance of SEOPC and from the
domestic construction firms which are registered by SEOPC as qualified for
road works and which would be invited to send representatives. The program
is to be carried out mostly in the field; SEOPC would select road sections
in need of surface treatment and would provide the necessary equipment and
materials. Preliminary terms of reference for this technical assistance



- 11 -
program were agreed with SEOPC during appraisal and were confirmed during
negotiations (Annex 2). In order to continue support for the maintenance
training efforts begun under the previous loans (para 2.19), the proposed
project includes technical assistance for training in maintenance management
and operations as well as support for SEOPC's Maintenance Training School
(Table 4.3).
3.06      Another problem which prevents effective periodic maintenance is
the shortage of some key pieces of equipment. SEOPC has no equipment to
produce and place the required gradation and shape of stone chippings. The
proposed project would include the provision of two mobile crus'.,ag and
screening units, a diesel-electric generator unit, six stockp.le conveyors,
four non-metering towed mechanical chip spreaders and four asphalt
distributor trucks (Table 4.3). This equipment would give SEOPC the
capacity to carry out surface treatments on about 150 km of two-lane roads
each yeas. Since this capacity is not sufficient to cover all surface
treatment needs, SEOPC would contract the remaining required periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works, about 200 km per year, to the domestic
constructior. industry once the industry has equipped itself and developed
the necessary technical expertise. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide adequate resources to maintain its road system properly
and to carry out this periodic maintenance and rehabilitation program. For
maintenance purposes, the Government would allocate at least the equivalent
in Dominican pesos of US$7.275 million in 1985, US$7.975 million in 1986,
US$8.815 million in 1987, and US$9.655 million in 1988. In addition, the
Government would provide the Bank for its review, by June 30 of each year,
its detailed road maintenance program for the following year, including both
routine and periodic maintenance. Based on the 1985 maintenance needs
program, carrying out the 350 km of periodic maintenance would represent
about 10 of additional recurrent expenditures. The 350-k target would be
adjusted from time to time, in agreement with the Bank, to take changes in
requirements and resources available into account.
(iii) Transport Planning
3.07      Technical assistance would also be provided to SEOPC to continue
support and he_p to fully implement the transport planning and management
system begun under the previous project. Methodologies, manuals, computer
programs and other planning, programing and monitoring elements developed
and available at SEOPC and other transport agencies would be put into
operation in order to widen the scope of planning efforts to include all
modes and, later, based on experience gained, would be revised. In the
process of implementing the system, staff would be trained to be able to
formulate transport policies continuously and to carry out investment
analysis. The planning system would be implemented, together with a
monitoring system, both with direct linkages to annual financial programing
and budget execution activities. Agreement with SEOPC on preliminary terms
of reference for consultant services to assist in implementing the program
was reached during appraisal and was confirmed during negotiations
(Annex 3). In addition, technical assistance would be provided to introduce
a pavement deflection and roughness measuring system--including required
equipment (Table 4.3), coordinated with road inventory data--into the
highway maintenance planning system already in place.
(iv) Rural Roads
3.08      The rural roads component would provide continuing support to the
rural roads construction research and demonstration program which was



- 12 -
started under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
(Loan 1784-DO). It would provide for construction and improvement of 100 km
of additional rural roads, to be built under the supervision of SEOPC's
Directorate for Rural Roads. The efforts of the Unit under the current
redirected 'rogram (para 2.07) would be evaluated by the end of 1985. It
was agreed during negotiations that disbursements for this project component
would be made only if the results of the study and evaluation show that the
proposed construction system and methods (labor-based and intermediate) are
cost-effective.
D.   Costs and Financing
3.09      Total project cost is estimated at US$44.7 million equivalent
(Table 4.1) with a foreign exchange compcaient of US$31 million (69% of
project cost). As a result of the country's poor economic situation,
recently exacerbated by rampant inflation and the rusterity measures being
taken by the Government, including a major devaluation of the currency,
there is presently an extreme shortage of local currency. In order to allow
the project to be implemented with the resources available to the Government
and to help mitigate the present difficulties, the proposed Bank loan of
US$35.8 million would finance the full foreign exchange cost and aboutt 35%
of local costs, thereby financing 80% of total project costs. The
Government would finance the balance, US$8.9 million equivalent,
representing 20% of total project cost. Cost estimates for completing the
ongoing reconstruction works are based on existing contracts and fi.eld
inspection of work remaining (Table 4.2).   Cost estimates for mrintenance
equipment to be purchased have been prepared by SEOPC based on
manufacturers' CIF Santo Domingo quotations and checked on the, basis of
normal international prices for comparable equipment (Table 4.3). The costs
of spare parts, workshop tools and equipment are based on a detailed costing
of each individual item needed (see Project File) as determined through the
repair and overhaul program. Costs for the technical assistance components
are based on terms of reference and detailed programing for consultant
services. Finally, cost estimates for continued support to the rural road
construction program were prepared based on costs incurred during the
ongoing pilot program and for other rural roads under construction. Since
the cost estimates for civil works are based on detailed analyses of actual
field conditions, a physical contingency allowance was not included in the
estimate of costs. Similarly, the goods to be procured are known irn
detail. For the foreign cost components, price increases of 5% for 1985,
7.5% for 1986 and 8% for 1987 and later years were used. For local costs,
the following anticipated price increases were used: 26.6% for 1985, 13% for
1986, 10% for 1987, 8% for 1988 and 7% for 1989 and 1990.
3.10      The Foreign Exchange Component (FEC) for reconstruction works has
been estimated at 70%, based on an analysis of major components included in
the works (see Project File) and combined with the weighted average for the
local and foreign firms under contract. For consultant services for
construction supervision, the FEC (16%) is based on existing contractual
arrangements. For the rural road component, the FEC was estimated at 70%,
based on the conservative assumption that construction would be carried out
using normal "equipment" methods. About 96% of the costs related to
procurement of equipment and spare parts are estimated to be foreign
expenditures (equivalent to 100% of the CIF Santo Domingo costs). Technical
assistance services for transport planning and improvement to pavement
techniques and for maintenance operations and training would have an FEC of
about 75%. The overall FEC for the proposed project is 69% of the total
estimated cost.



- 13 
3.11      Retroactive financing for up to US$2.5 million equivalent is
proposed for expenditures made after November 30, 1984, but before the date
of loan signature, in order to prevent untimely cessation of work after
funds available under Loan 1784-DO are exhausted and before funds under this
project can be made available.
E.   Economic Evaluation
(i) General
3.12      Road reconstruction, which accounts for about 65% of the total
project costs, has been subject to full economic analysis. For the
rural roads component, which accounts for about 4% of total project costs, a
methodology for sconomic evaluation has been agreed upon. The selection of
rural roads will Se made as a continuing effort by the Labor-Intensive Road
Construction Unit, and no less than 50 km of roads will have been evaluated
and identified as feasible by the time that the evaluation of the
cost-effectiveness of the proposed labor-intensive or intermediate
technology methods has been completed, in late 1985, Rural roads will be
evaluated following the simplified procedures developed during the pilot
stage. These are acceptable to the Bank. Finally, the maintenance
equipment, tools and spare parts component, and the technical assistance for
maintenance operations and training, including the surface treatment
component, which account for about 20% of total project cost, are designed
to assist in preserving the capital stock by preventing further
deterioration of the network. Simple comparison of the average cost for
surface treatments (US$6,5O0 per km) with average road reconstruction costs
(US$150,000 per km) leaves no doubt of the high return of this type of
maintenance activity. The Bank's experience with such incremental
investments in road maintenance shows that they yield ERRs of over 50%.
(ii) Road Reconstruction
3.13      The economic evaluation for each of the three road sections has
been based on the reduction in vehicle operating costs for existing and
future traffic. No induced traffic has been assumed, and, in all cases, the
economic rates of return have been based on the total investment cost, also
including "sunk costs" (sunk costs are defined as investments already made
in the reconstruction of the project roads which have no alternative
economic use). The details of the economic evaluation are included in
Annex 4, and the results are summarized below.
Road Sections                 % of Total  Economic Rate of Return on:
Project                 Total
Cost               Investment
Santiago-San Francisco de Macoris       28                     22
Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris    19                       30
San Juan de La Maguana-
Las Matas de Farfan                   18                     20
All Roads Combined                      65                     26
F. Project Risks
3.14      There are no major technical risks associated with the project.
Although SEOPC does not have a good performance record in project
implementation, usually because of poor engineering studies, this aspect has



- 14 -
largely been overcome; engineering designs for all roads have been
satisfactorily revised and completed. Notwithstanding the Government's high
priority for completing road works, strengthening the planning and
management of the transport sector and upgrading road maintenance and
construction techniques, the main risk affecting the project is the
uncertainty, gi 'en the country's fiscal situation, of timely availability of
counterpart funcs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it would prov .de the necessary counterpart funds for the
project. An implementation a hedule, including funding requirements, was
agreed with the Government dux'ng negotiations (Table 4.4). The funding
would amount to at least the equivalent, in Dominican pesos, of US$1.33
million for 1985, US$2.84 million for 1986, US$2.56 million for 1987,
US$1.59 million for 1988, and US$0.62 million for 1989. Sensitivity tests
were applied, increasing total costs by 20% and lowering benefits by an
equal proportion. In all cases, the investment remained viable (Annex 4).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.01      A detailed tabulation, showing the proposed project costs, broken
down into local and foreign componente, is given on the following page.
Table 4.1 shows the details of the project cost components, including
contingencies. Estimates of costs of completing the reconstruction road
works were prepared, based on updated work programs, work accomplished and
the production capacity of each contractor.   It is proposed that the Bank
loan provide financing for the entire foreign exchange cost of the project,
and for a portion (35%) of the project's local cost, as estimated and shown
on the next page. Table 4.2 shows the status of Loan 1784-DO and supports
the information contained in Table 4.1.
4.02      A list showing the technical characteristics and estimated CIF
Santo Domingo prices of maintenance equipment, tools and spare parts which
would be purchased under the project is given in Table 4.3. Further details
are in the Project File. Preliminary terms of reference for the technical
assistance for bituminous surface treatments are given in Annex 2,
indicating a requirement of 48 man-months of foreign consulting services.
The terms of reference for the technical assistance for transport planning
and management are given in Annex 3, requiring about 77 man-months of
consulting services (50 foreign and 27 domestic). The technical assistance
for maintenance operations and training will be a continuation of the
efforts begun under the previous project, as will the consulting services
for construction supervision. The technical assistance for maintenance
operations and training would require about 40 man-months of foreign and
local consultants (15 foreign and 25 local). Table 4.4 shows the project's
Implementation Schedule.
4.03      In order to facilitate disbursement of loan funds, two separate
accounts would be opened, one (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of
the Dominican Republic and the other (the Project Account) in the Reserve
Bank of the Dominican Republic. The Special Account, in US Dollars, would
be funded by the Bank through an initial deposit (US$3.0 million) and
subsequent reimbursements. The other, a Revolving Fund, in Dominican Pesos,
called the Project Account, would be maintained using Government counterpart
funds. The depositing of US$750,000 equivalent (the initial deposit) would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The initial deposits would be



- 15 -
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ Millions)
Local Foreign Total Foreign  Bank    Bank
Project Components               Cost   Cost   Cost  Exclhange Finan,  Finan.
A. Civil Works
(i) Road Reconstruction
(a) Sarntiago-San Fran. de Macoris      3.2   7.5  10.7   70        7.5      70
(b) Sto.Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris  2.2   5.1   7.3   70          5.1      70
(c) San Juan-Las Matas de Parfan        2.1   4.8   6.9   70        4.8      70
Subtotal (1)                        7.5  17.4  24.9   70       17.4      70
(ii) Rxral Road Improvements (100 kIn)       0.5   1.1   1.6   70        1.1       70
Subtotal (A)                        8.0  18.5  26.5   70       18.5      70
B. Procurement of Goods
(i) Maintenance Equipment                   0.1   2.9   3.0   97        2.9       97
(ii) Workshop Equipment, Tools and Spare
Parts for Inventory, Equipment
Repair and Overhaul                     0.2   4.1   4.3   95        4.1      95
Subtotal (B)                        0.3   7.1   7.4   96        7.1      96
C. Consulting Services
(i) Supervision & Administration of
Road Reconstruction Works               1.0   0.2   1.2   16        1.2      100
(ii) Tech. Assis. for Transport Planning
and Paving Techniques                   0.7   1.8   2.5   72        2.5      100
(iii) Tech. Assis. for Maintenance
Operations and Training                 D.2   0.6   0.8   75        0.8      100
Subtotal (C)                        1.9   2.6   4.5   58        4.5     100
Base Costs (A+B+C) l/                  10.2  28.2  38.4   73       30.1      78
D. Contingencies 2/
Price (17% of Base Costs) 3/                3.5   2.9   6.4   45        5.7       90
Subtotal (D)                        3.5   2.9   6.4   45        5.7      90
Total Project Cost                         13.7  31.0  44.7   69       35.8       80
1I/ June 1985 prices, Columns may not total due to rounding.
S/ ee paragraph 3.09.
3/ Costs are based on the following estimated increases for foreign prices: 5% for 1985,
7.5% for 1986 and 8% for 1987 and onward. Estimated price increases for local costs
are as follows: 26.6% for 1985, 13% for 1986, 10% for 1987, 8% for 1988 and 7% for
1989 and 1990.
May 1985



- 16 -
equivalent to approximately four months of anticipated average
expenditures. Withdrawals from the Special Account would follow
determination by the Central Baxik that funds sufficient to cover the local
portion of the expenditure were available in the Project Account, or that
the counterpart portion had already been paid out. Disbursement of loan
funds would be fully documented, using the Bank's normal procedures, with
the exception of expenditures for civil works under the rural roads
component which would be disbursed against statements of expenditures,
documentation for which would be retained in SEOPC for review during
supervision missions. Disbursements would be made as follows: (a) 70% for
civil works, including rural roads; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
equipment, spare parts and workshop tools or 80% of total cost if locally
procured; and (c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, consulting
services and training costs. Procedures to be used for the Special and
Project Accounts (Revolving Fund), as well as for other disbursements, were
agreed with the Government during negotiations. The estimated disbursement
schedule is given in Table 4.5.
B.     Execution, Procurement, Monitoring and Auditing
4.04      SEOPC would be responsible for project execution through the
following departments:
(a)   The Directorate for Highways would be in charge of completing the
highway reconstruction works, with assistance from consultants for
construction supervision;
(b)   The Directorate for Highway Maintenance would be responsible for
the technical assistance for surface treatments, the purchase of
equipment, spare parts and workshop equipment and tools and the
maintenance equipment overhaul program. It would also administer
and execute the maintenance training program. It would be
assisted by the Directorate for Highways;
(c)   The recently established Office for Programing and Development
(OPD), under the direct authority of the Secretary, SEOPC, would
be responsible for the transport planning and management program.
It would be supported by all of SEOPC's transport-related
directorates; and
(d)   The Directorate for Rural toads would be responsible for
implementing the rural road component.
4.05      The project would not require tendering for highway works since
the proposed financing is for completing advanced contracts, already awarded
following the Bank's Guidelinies. Related supervision services would also be
advanced contract financing. Procurement of goods (about US$7.4 million
equivalent) would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement program for maintenance
equipment, workshop equipment and tools and spare parts, indicating lot
size, estimated cost and proposed exceptions to ICB (which would be
permitted only if the estimated cost of a contract is US$50,000 or less)
would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. Such exceptions would not
exceed, in the aggregate, US$250,000 and would be executed using local
shopping procedures with a minimum of three quotations being obtained.
Similar items would be grouped, to the extent possible, for bidding
purposes. Bidding procedures, tender documents, contracts and proposed
contract awards would all be subject to the Bank's prior review and



- 17 -
approval. Employment of consultants for technical assistance programs
(total cost about US$3.3 million equivalent) would follow the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agenc  (August 191).- Detailed terms of reterence
would be based upon those initially agreed with SEOPC  (Annexes 2 and 3) and
were confirmed during negotiatlons. Improvement of rural roads would be
carried out by SEOPC using force account and local labor, with certain well
defined complementary activities executed by contract and with equipment.
The limited value and the geographic dispersion of such works would attract
only small local contractors; SEOPC would invite bids from prequalified
contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures which have
been examined and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. Local shopping would
be utilized to rent equipment for the rural road improvements carried out by
SEOPC, utilizing fo-ce account methods. For ccrtain smaller works not
likely to attract wide international interest, Limited International Bidding
(LIB) would be permitted up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.5
million on the basis of bids invited from at least three qualified
contractors.  Table 4.6 gives the proposed method of procurement for each
project component.
4.06      The progress of the project toward Its objectives would be
monitored against the following key indicators:
(a) Physical progress of civil works subprojects against the agreed
implementation schedule (Table 4.4);
(b) Progress on procurement of goods and services against agreed
schedule (Tables 4.3 and 4.4);
(c) Progress on withdrawal of loan funds against agreed disbursement
schedule (Table 4.5);
(d)  Progress on implementing atnnual maintenance programs, which would
be prepared by SEOPC and agreed with the Bank;
(e) Scope and funding of annual maintenance programs for the highway
network; and
(f) Progress on the implementation of the transport planning and
management system against the scope and working papers produced
during agreed phases.
The use of these project indicators and the scope and timing of related
reporting requiremrnts was agreed with the Government during negotiations.
Agreement was also reached on the estimated implementation schedule (Table
4.4), the disbursement schedule (Table 4.5) and the budgetary levels to be
provided for support of the project.
4.07      The implementation period of the project would be about four
years, as shown in Table 4.4. Because of the advanced state of
implementation of most project components, disbursements are expected to
take place over a period of only four years, substantially faster than
indicated by the regional profile for road projects (seven to eight years).
4.08      SEOPC's overall accounting and auditing procedures were reviewed
during the recently completed, IDB-financed assistance for strengthening
SEOPC's institutional and technical capabilities. As a result, manuals were



- 18 -
prepared and are in the process of being applied. For projects with
financing from external sources, SEOPC has a special unit, directly
responsible to the Secretary, which centralizes accounting, prepares
withdrawal applications, requests the counterpart funds from the Treasury
and makes the payments. This unit's accounting procedures were reviewed and
found to be adequate. A separate unit, also directly responsible to the
Secretary (the Internal Comptrollers and Auditing Department), carries out
periodic operational audit reviews of financial transactions. The General
Comptroller and Altditing Office of the Dominican Republic issues norms and
regulations but does not normally conduct audits. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, for
accounting and auditing of project accounts, including, but not limited to,
the Special Account and Project Accounts (Revolving Fund) and the statement
of expenditure procedures (para 4.03). Measures for expediting and
simplifying accounting and withdrawal procedures were aleo discussed with
the Government during negotiations and will be followed up during project
supervision.
V. AGRENEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the following:
(a)  allocation of resources to maintain the road system properly
and to carry out periodic maintenance and rehabilitation work
on not less than 350 km per year, and provision of road
maintenance program for Bank review by June 30 of each year
(para 3.06);
(b) disbursements for the rural road improvement component to be
made only if the proposed construction techniques are shown
to be cost-effective (para 3.08);
(c) provision, by the Government, of the necessary counterpart
funds for the project (para 3.14);
(d) procedures to be used for the Special Account and the Project
Account (Revolving Fund) (para 4.03);
(e) key project indicators and the scope and timing of related
reporting requirements (para 4.06); and
(f)  annual external auditing of project accounts, including the
Special Account and Project Account (Revolving Fund) at the
Central Bank and statements of expenditures (para 4.08).
5.02      In addition, the following matters were confirmed with the
Govervment during negotiations:
(a) preliminary terms of reference for the technical assistance
program for surface treatments (para 3.05);
tb) preliminary terms of reference for consultant services for
transport planning and management (para 3.07);



- 19 -
(c) procurement of goods and consultants' services according
to Bank guidelines (para 4.05); and
(d) the implementation schedule for the project and the estimated
disbursement schedule (para 4.06).
5.03      During negotiations, the Government confirmed the need for US$2.5
million equivalent in retroactive financing (para 3.11). A condition of
loan effectiveness will be that the Government will have deposited the
equivalent of US$0.75 million in the Project Account (para 4.03).
5.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Banik loan of US$35.8 million. The terms would be 17 years with a four-year
grace period.
Jun'- 1985



DMICAN REUJLC
THIRD PKSFC H 
Atu±1  Rxflitres 1b Pbic Sector Tramsport Agedes
('00s ca-rent RD$)
SE)PC's Total Egkinditures                    Otelr Transport Agencies Eieditures*
As % of Cntral                    As Z of Cnttal                      As % of  tral
Year  Oa Roa T*r (ks  Wvemnt 1qdt;reas  T(tal   (berment MqEditres   Total                    Qwerment  erwedi9tres
1977      7,191               1.1              19,199            2.1                572               0.1
1978      8,257               1.3              19,584            3.1                398               N.D.
1979     53,713               5.3              80,438            8.0              2,850               0.3
1980     78,550               7.4             108,998           10.2             10,657               1.0
1981     86,010               7.9             126,880           11.7             20,586               1.9
1982     78,574               7.7             108,330           10.6             16,007               1.6
1983     91,092               7.8             128,585           11.0             17,600               1.5
1984    104,500 (est.)        7.7 (e8t.)      149,279           11.0 (est.)      N.D.                 NJD.
* Thdes  Oa       , APBi and Civil Aviation
cource: (uapres - &xIget  xcution Peports (1977-1983), SFPC
Sy 1985



- 21 -
TABLE 2.2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONISTRUCTION PROJECT
Highway Network and Surface Classification
(Km)
Uniden-
Paved     Gravel   Earth  tified   Total
Primary                                      997           23      -      127    1,147
Secondary                                  1,488         693       -      147    2,328
Tertiary                                      /68         333     56       46    1,203
Total                                 3,253       1,049      56     320    4,678
Source: Directorate for Highways (SEOPC)
May 1985



- 22 -                           TABLE 2.3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRuCTION PROJECT
Feeder Road Network
Malntenance                                                  Lngth
District                Province                             (km)
I                     S.P. Macorls                         423
La Romana                           176
I                     El Seibo                             729
I                     La Alta Gracia                       757
Sub-total District I                            2,085
II                    Nacional                             485
II.                   San Cristobal                        955
II                    Peravia                              560
Sub-total District tX                           2,000
IIl                   Duarte                               671
III                   Sanchez Ramirez                      290
III                   Salcedo                              158
f II                 MH. Trinidad Sanchez                  330
TII                   Samana                                97
Sub-total District Tit                          1,546
IV                    Santiago                             886
IV                    La Vega                              874
IV                    Espaillat                            375
IV                    Puerto Plata                         656
Sub-total District IV                           2,791
V                     Valverde (Mao)                       659
V                     Dajabon                              250
V                     S. Rodriguez                         554
V                     Monte Cristi                         711
Sub-total District V                            2,174
VI                    Azua                                 334
VI                    S. Juan de la Maguana                760
VI                    Elias Pina                           228
Sub-total District VI                           1,322
VI                   Barahona                             331
VII                   Independencia                         84
VII                   Bahoruco (Neyba)                     186
VII                   Pedernales                            93
Sub-total District VII                            694
TOTAL                                          1.2,612
Souirce: Directorate for Rural Roads (SEOPC)
May 1985



- 23 -
TABIE 2.4
DOHMCAN REJBL
H    ROAD RPRJECr
SOPC's Road Mainterianoe E uianmt  r    and Coniction
AXW- Group in Years                        CondLiEon
TDtal
Exscription         1-3   4-6   7-11   11-15   Units    Good   Repair 1/   Scrap
WMpThicks                  54   146   62        5       267       193       41         33
batorgrairs                 8    47   12        22       89        46       17          26
Frott-End loadrs           11    20   15         4       50        33        9          8
Rollers                     5    28    9       44        86        42       22         22
Asphalt Distributors        2      4    -       -         6         6        -          -
Aregate Spreadrs, Tcpd   -         1    -        -        1         1                    -
Tractor Trucks              -      3    6      46        55        22       13         20
Ttp-Top Traiers            14      -    -       -        14        14        -          -
Wter Spirinker Trucks       8      -    -       -         8         8        -          -
Lubrication Trucks          4      -    -       -         4         4        -          -
Total Maintetance
Equpment                  106   249  104    121         580       369      102         109
PercentaM                 18    43    18       21       100        64       17         19
1/ Ti need of mjor repairs or ovrhaul
Source: Directorate for Hi#my Maintenance and Statistical Section (SEOPC)
May 1985



- 24 -
TABLE 2.5
Page 1 of 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION. PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic (ADT) and Vehicle Compesition on Highways
Average Composition (7%)
Year
Road                           1983      1982     1981      Light      Buses    Trucks
Vehicles
Trunk Road System
B. Chica-S. P. Macoris           4,149    4,261    4,258          64        17        19
S.P. Macoris-La Romana           2,368    2,463    2,265         62         18        20
S.P. Macoris-Consuelo            2,067    1,169    2,086         70         13        17
Consuelo-H. Mayor                1,330    1,169    1,226         69         12        19
H. Mayor-El Seybo                  302       556       713        78         6        16
El Seybo-Higuey                    826       505       611       64         18        18
Higuey-B. Yuma                    N.A.       327       378        78         7        15
Navarrete-Imbert                 2,232    2,789    2,791         77          7        16
Imbert-P. Plata                  1,962    2,528    1,807         81          4        15
Haina-S. Cristobal                N.A.    8,632    9,064          59        21        20
S. Cristobal-Bani                4,404    4,278    3,745         53         22        25
Bani-S. Ocoa                     2,116    2,275    2,163         50         23        22
S.Ocoa-Azua                      1,746    2,327    2,291         47         24        29
Azua-15 de Azua                  2,045    2,428    2,089          50        20        30
Las Yayas-S. Juan                1,426    1,281    1,542         58         16        26
S. Juan-Las Matas                  806       786       800       70         13        17
Las Matas-E. Pita                 N.A.       304       381       80          7        13
P. Plata-Sosua                   2,290    2,512    2,647         81          4        15
Sosua-S. Yasica                    R,77    1,081      873        84          2        14
S. Yasica-G. Hernandez             938       768       989       86          3        11
Gaspar-S. Juan                     766    1,040        783       81          3        16
S. Juan-Cabrera                    627       691    1,538        83          5        12
Cabrera-Nagua                      792       725    1,538        82          4        14
Nagua-Sanchez                    1,008    1,423    1,280         83          3        14
Sanchez-Samana                   1,062    1.147    1,458         80          4        14
Bani-Caldera                     1,383       968    1,367        54         24        22
15 Azua-P. Altu                    979    1,370       936        51         19        30
Alcarrizos-V. Altagracia         6,499    6,752    7,125         60         17        23
V. Alt-P. Blanca                 6,455    6,283    5,954         63         18        19
Bonao-S.F. Macoris               6,009    6,365    6,282         68         14        18
La Vega-Santiago                 6,584    6,100    6,646         69         11        20
Santiago-Navarrete               7,987    7,114    7,115         72         11        17
Navarrete-Guayacanes             3,507    3,228    3,191         66         16        18
Guiayacanes-Vasquez              1,402    1,863    1,307         75          7        18
Vasquez-M. Cristi                  542       817       738       71          8        21



- 25 -                             TABLE 2.5
Page 2 of 3
Average Composition  MZ)
Year
Road                                     1982      1981     Light      Buses    Trucks
Vehicles
Secondary Road System
C. Duarte-S. F. Macoris                    1,997    1,894         81          3        16
Mao-Guayubin                               1,298    n.a.          79          4        17
Moca-La Vega                               1,898    2,262         85          2        13
Cotui-Sevicos                                761       910        78          2        20
Baya-M. Plata                                422       995        75          8        17
Baya-Guerra                                  815       995        56         18        26
Santiago-El Perion                           632       766        83          5        12
V. Mella-La Victoria                       1,707    1,624         79          7        14
Constanza-El Rio                           1,048    1,931         83          2        15
V. Mella-Yamasa                            2,602    2,030         74         15        11
Santiago-S.J. Las Matas                      512       348        84          2        14
Moncion-Los Quemados                         276       399        73          3        24
Mao-Los Quemados                             565       609        75         10        15
Los Quemados-S. Rodriguez                    501       358        70         15        15
C. Duarte-El Rio                             696    1,030         76          3        21
Jarabacoa-El Rio                             130       248        67         10        23
Mao-Guayacanes                             1,298       875        81          3        16
Guayacanes-La Isabela                        690       758        88          4         8
Guayubin-S. Rodriguez                         96       151        83          1        16
V. Tapia-Salcedo                           1,103    1,064         87          4         9
Salcedo-Tenares                            1,549    1,427         87          1        12
Tenares-S.F. Macoris                       1,440    1,765         87          1        12
S.F. Macoris-Pimentel                      1,811    3,580         78          5        17
Pimentel-Castillo                          1,652    1,901         64          7        29
Castillo-Nagua                             1,641    1,600         80          8        12
Moca-A. Duarte                             2,325    2,453         79          6        15
S. Domingo-C. La Cuenca                    1,434    1,525         58         16       26
La Romana-El Pintado                         724       891        68         20        12
S. P. Macoris-R. Santana                     214       247        81,        10        9
H. Mayor-Sabana de Mar                       336       487        71         10        19
Sabana de Mar-Miches                         232       490        80          4        10
Higuey-Los Islenos                           832       850        77          4        19
Imbert-Luperon                               533       521        68          3       29
Moca-Salcedo                               1,365    1,434         85          2        13
L. Cabrera-Restauracion                      221       158        84          6        10
C. Cabral-Cabral                             583       662        85          5        10
Cabral-Duverge                               286       483        72         10        18
Duverge-Jimani                               113       161        75         12        13
Jimani-La Descubierta                         59       153        73         14        13
La Descubierta-Neyba                         334       391        86          3        11
Neyba-P. Alto                                481       455        70          5        25
S. Juan-El Cercado                           564       836        76          3       21
C. Palo Alto-Barahona                      1,923    1,952         83          9         8
Barahona-Paraiso                             388       681        75          8        17
Paraiso-Enriquillo                           244       681        76         10        14
Enriquillo-)viedo                            436       401        72          7        21
Oviedo-Pedadrnales                           167       190        56         12        32
M. Cristi-C. Pepillos                        382       538        77          7        16



- 2b -
TABLE 2.5
Page 3 of 3
Average Composition (%)
Year           __
Road                                     1982     1981      Light      Buses    Trucks
Vehicles
C. Pepillo-S. Dajabon                        886       754       79          3        18
Dajabon-S. de la Cruz                        581       705       79          5        16
S. de la Cruz-L. de Cabrera                  413       591       85          6         9
Tertiary Road System
Nizao-C. Nizao                               617       565       71         16        13
Las Matas-E. Cercado                         457       478       86          4        10
Cabral-Polo                                  234       378       86          7         6
Pimentel-Cotui                               456       588       76          7        17
S.f. Macoris-V. Tapia                      1,566    1,006        85          2        13
El Cercado-Hondo Valle                       280       210       85          -        15
Note:  The 1984/1985 traffic counting program is presently underway with about 40%
of the program completed.  Some of the data presently available is given
below:
Road                               1984 ADT
Trunk Road System
B. Chica-S .P. Macoris               3,510
S. P. Macoris-La Romana              2,560
Haina-S. Cristobal                   9,806
S. Cristobal-Bani                    4,886
S. Ocoa-Azua                         2,206
Azua-15 de Azua                      2,414
Las Yayas-S.Juan                     1,462
15 Azua-P. Alto                        675
Alcarrizos-V. Altagracia             6,608
V. Altagracia-P. Blanca              5,951
Bonao-S.F. Macoris                   6,191
La Vega-Santiago                     7,314
Source: Directorate for Land Transportation (SEOPC)
May 1985



- 27 -
T8IE 2.6
X4NICAN RCEUBLC
IBM RC)D  RomO wE
Evolution of the Mbtor Vehicle Fleet
Carq /     -       Freight            Euses
Year    Total       Total    Private  FPblic       Ve1hicls      Private  FRbOic    Jbeps
1970    57,520      36,438   21,062    15,376       18,657         289      837      1,299
1971    68,595      43,089   25,800    17,289       22,497         416      890      1,703
1972    75,243      50,635   32,136    18,499       22,268         303      767      1,270
1973    85,224      54,594   33,833    20,761       26,045         543      942      3,100
1974    97,487      62,613   40,388    22,225       30,185         593      952      3,144
1975   108,682      69,336   46,542    22,794       33,815         637      939      4,009
1976   117,967      74,563   51,820    22,743       37,932         810    1,200      3,462
1977   125,560      82,741   56,715    26,026       38,228         779    1,532      2,280
1978   135,692      87,767   61,577    26,190       42,897         949    1,513      2,566
1979   140,073      87,606   63,084    24,522       47,820         669    1,734      2,244
1980   160,436     103,449   85,771    17,678       51,031       1,056    2,049      2,851
1981   155,823      96,504   78,624    17,880       53,034       1,045    3,272      2,468
1982   154,836      94,377   78,119    16,258       53,453       1,037    3,370      2,599
1983   149,688      87,366   72,598    14,768       54,840       1,365    3,391      2,726
1984   178,217     101,630   87,389    14,241       56,778       3,515    2,900     13,394
1/ "Private" cars are vebicles with private icense plates; "public" are those licensed for
comuercial transport.
Source: Directorate for Land Transoortation (SEOPC)
Ray 1985



TAMLE 7.7
D3MINICAN FE31D3LIC
11IRD ROAD           CN Pwr
Road-User-{eaLed Fiscal Revemes am  Exndittes X Roads
('00OS RD)
Item/Year           1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983        1984
Taxes oa Gasoline
and lubricants     6,715.8  10,532.1  23,111.9  37,298.6  35,639.5  38,910.9  50,097.8  92,452.9  98,872.1  118,420.2  150,188.7
Tolls              1,790.0   1,870.0   1,959.7   2,296.6   2,445.4   2,430.1   2,346.6   2,392.3   2,439.2    3,064.1    3,318.4
Lioense Plates     8,901.3  10,112.0  10,655.2  11,225.9  12,068.7  12,208.1  12,900.9  13,772.7  14,195.1   13,982.9   13,lt9.2
Registration and
Vehicle Transfer      -         -          460.4     837.8      897.0      969.4   1,173.0   1,069.2   1,071.7    1,052.7    1,016.7
Revenue           17,407.1  22,514.1  36,187.2  51,658.9  51,050.6  54,518.5  66,518.3  109,687.1  116,578.1  136,519.9  168,!20.0
pxlitures /1       N.A.       6,523.4   6,487.6   7,191.0   8,257.0  53,713.0  78,550.0  86,010.0  78,574.0   91,092.0  10495(0.0(Fst.)
1/ See Table 2.1
Source: GRAM: bTit Eeaition reports 1974-1984
May 1985                                                                                                                                       N



- 29 -
TABLE 2.8
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Structure of Retail Prices of Automotive Fuels
(In RD$ per liter)
Gasoline              Diesel Oil
Base Price                               0.9683                   0.9931
Distribution Charges and
Retailers' Margin                      0.0752                   0.0504
Retail Price                             1.0435                   1.0435
International Price 1/
(CIF Santo Domingo)                    0.659                    0.682
1/ Using an exchange rate of US$1.00 = RD$3.00.
Source: Secretariat of Industry and Commerce
February 1985



- 30 -
TABLE 2.9
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Consumption of Road Vehicle Fuels
(millions of gallons)
Year                          Gasoline                      Diesel Oil
1975                           105.6                          114.2
1976                           111.3                          105.3
1977                           109.5                          110.0
1978                           113.7                          1 20,0
1979                           104.9                          106.4
1980                           106.6                          125.8
1981                            96.9                          128.3
1982                            96.5                          128.7
1983                           101.4                          127.8
1984                           108.2 (est.)                   144.8 (est.)
Sources: Energy Policy Commission and Dominican Oil Refinery
May 1985



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Trafftc Dlstrlbution among Principal Ports It
('QOOs tons and %
Cabo Rojo                                                                            Boca Chica
Year   Total   Barahona   I   La Romana   %   Haina    %   ManzanllIo  %   P. Plata   %   S. P. Macorls   %   S. Domingo   %
1970   4,849       177     4      1,707    35      -      -3                       76      2          -         -       1,930    40
1971   4,973       305     6      1,834    37     -       -         2             142      3        287         6       2,404    48
1972   5,288       239     5      1,968    37    713   13          15              184     3        376         7       1,793    34
1973   6,299       363     6      2,024    32   1,900   30         24             135      2        457         7       1,396    22
1974   6,491       461     7      2,202    34   2,479   38         33              t54     2        222         3         940    14
1975   6,048       267     4      1,546    26   2,567   42         27      2!      115     2        336         6       1,190    20
1976   5,558       222     4      1,471    27   2,593   47        22              170      3        228         4        846    15
1977   6,151       422     7      1,370    23   2,806   47         17             283      5        326         5         927    16
1978   5,743       215     4      1,553    27   2,651   46         12              139     2        334         6         839    15
1979   5,763       248     4      1,275    22   2,928   51         5              154      3        382         7         771    13
1980   6,020       347     6      1,324    22   3,065   51         11             107      2        404         7         771    13
1981   5,771       164     3      1,219    21   3,079   53        25              156      3        337         6         772    13
1982   5,190       134     3        863    17   3,030   58         8               75      1        371         7         709    14
1983   5,354       123     2        638    12   3,443   64          1             154      3        321         6         675    13
1/ Includes petroleum
2/ Less than 0.5%
Source: SEOPC
May 1985
0



- 32 -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                             TABLE 4.1
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Details of Project Costs
(US$ million)
Base Costs /1      Total Costs /2
Project Component
A. Civil Works
(i)  Road Reconstruction
(a) Santiago-San Fran. de Macoris
- Santiago-Moca (17.8 km)                           1.9                 2.2
- Moca-Tenares (21.7 km)                            6.3                 7.3
- Tenares-S.F. Macoris (14.7 km)                    2.5                 2.9
Subtotal (a)                                           10*7                12.4
(b) Santo Domingo-S.P. Macoris (64.6 km)                7.3                 8.4
(c) San Juan-Las Matas de Farfan (31.5 km)              6.9                 8.0
Subtotal (i)                                            _                  28.8
(ii) Rural Road Improvements (100 km)                        1.6                  1.8
Subtotal (A)                                           26.5                30.6
B. Procurement of Goods
(i)  Maintenance Equipment                                   3.0                 3.5
(ii) Workshop Equipment, Tools and Spare Parts for
Inventory, Equipment Repair and Overhaul                4.3                 5.0
Subtotal (B)                                            _7_                 8.6
C. Consulting Services
(i) Supervision & Administration of Road
Reconstruction Works                                    1.2                 1.6
(ii) Tech. Assis. for Transport Planning
and Paving Techniques                                   2.5                 3.0
(iii) Tech. Assis. for Maintenance Operations & Training   0.8                    0.9
Subtotal (C)                                            4.5                 5.5
TOTALS (A+B+C)/3                                       38.4                44.7
1/ June 1985 prices without contingencies.
2/ Including contingencies.
3/ Columns may not total due to rounding.
Source: SEOPC and Mission Estimates
May 1985



, of Pemjt Qmnwta 11In.l 278S-rD
Cikah FOw inld FiiMW1a VIai
M MM-)
FlniE1  I&M I1 P1 M    S              lb          fze   B rd C.Y. Io5
atited FiI Cost        TOal         L         2/31/84     Ia1i            FIrstO            Sea   (mter    h&LPinrqcdA1/l
i71 T~                    ~         ij,cai 7.DKPorej tael    ~           3T         D    1Y &~T   1m~l Y011' GP        Tfi
FW:  asdw-4F1
1. ~1~L
a. Oiv±l iti
-SwtLwcka (7.8 1IW          2.0  4.7   6.7   1.4  3.4  4.8  1.3  2.9  4.2  0.1   0.5  0.6  0.1   0.5  0.6                              0.6  1.3  1.9
-Mrstb mues (21.7 b)        2.1   4.9   7.0  0.2   0.5  0.7   0.2  0.5  0.7   -    -    -    -    -    -                               1.9  4.4  6.3
4Imrenu-B.FIde 1trnr
(14.7 km                  1.7  3.9  5.6  1.0  2.1   3.1  0.7   1.6  2.3  0.3   0.5  0.8   0.3  0.5  0.8  --                          0.7  141   2.5
(ii) S<o De
-ffP.de M1irl (64.6 Ih)     4.1   9.5  13.6  1.9   4.4  6.3  1.2  2.9  4.1   0.7  1.5  2.2  0.6  1.4  2.0  0.1   0.l  0.2   2.2  5.1  7.3
(lW) s9a Ja  -I=as
& Farfm (31.5 k)           2.3   5.4  7.7   0.2   0.6  0.8  0.2  0.6  0.8   -          -    -    -    -    -    -         -    -      2.1  6.8  6.9
b. 9Vzv1am of Qtrctiu             1.9  3.3  5.2  0.9   3.1   4.0   1.0  1.9  2.9  1.0  0.1  1.1   0.4  0.1  0.5  0.6    - o.s    1.0  0.2   1.2
so*Al                     14.1  31.7  45.8  5.6  14.1  19.7  4.6  10.4  15.0  2.1  2.6   4.7   1.4  2.5   39  0.1   0.7  0.8   8.5  17.6,2 2S.1
2. ett of    S
n    r 1e 1783-DD                  4.4  6.8  11.2  4.4  6.8  11.2  1.8   3.9   5J   2.6   2.9  5.5  1.6  1.7  3.3  1.0   1.2  2.2    -    -    -
3. Tabme  AnJoa_ito
_t dl   S                         0.1   0.4  CO5   0.1   0.4  0.5   0.1   0.4  0.5   -        -    -      -    -    -    -       -    -      -     -
4.   * A           (317 In)         0.5  0.8   1.3  0.5   0.8   1.3  0.2  0.5  0.7  0.3   0           0.6  0.3  0.3  0.6  -         -    -      -    -    -
5.  Ibd latoce sod Mmim*            0.3  11.8  12.1   0.3  11.8  12.1   0.2  11.0  11.2  0.1   0.8   0.9   -    0.4  0.4  0.1   0.4  0.5    -    -
6. anal W8
a (tvilr                         0.9   1.6  2.5   0.9   1.6  2.5  0.3  0.6  0.9   0.6  1.0   1.6  0.3   0.5  0.8  0.3   0.5  0.8    -    -    -
b. 1T  a1. A sta                  0.1  0.5   0.6  0.1   0.5  0.6  0.1   0.4  0.5   -          0.1  0.1   -    -    -    -        0.1  0.1    -     -    _
c. Sirvida aind1A                 0.6  -      0.6   0.6  -      0.6   OA    -    0.4   0.2  -      0.2  0.1  -       0.1 0.1    -    0.1    -    -    -
d. 1qA4m=                         0.1   0.5  0.6  0.1   0.5  0.6  0.1   0.4  0.5   -    0.1  0.1   -            0.1   0.1  -     -    -      -    -      _
Wftbl1 hal  1                  1.7  2.6   4.3   1.7   2.6  4.3  0.9  1.4  2.3  0.S  1.2   2.0  0.4  0.6  1.0  0.4   0.6  1.0    -    -    -
Sbtotal (2 to 6)               7.0  22.4  29.4   7.0  22.4  29.4  3.2  17.2  20.4  3.8  5.2   9.0   2.3  3.0  5.3  1.5   2.2  3.7   -    -    -
Orad Tol                      21.1  54.1  75.2  12.6  36.5  49.1   7.8  27.6. 35.4  5.9  7.8  13.7  3.7  5.5  9.2  1.6   2.9  4.5   P.5  17.6  26.1
I/ Rdthmrr prii  axidr es. Fd   a  of Jim  1965
o fE tis amzst, abut U=2.5 -illtu epdvalat tdll med tD be fixmed remactivey Er= tis proprad
-mm    R=Ca=u5 cdw    P-jet.
!ites:
1.A it         : Uhte1.0a3.0D
2. t     2 t1zgi 6  isd be  n d   r      1784-0
3. A purtimi of li  I (as a1t) Ito tDbe ffz un rb tile ppopd IiMO F        r tI  Pojent
So   :    C odML
Iy 195



- 34-                             TABLE 4.3
Pag e Imr f 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment and Training
Number    Unit Cost    Total Cost
Item                                  of lJnits     (US$)/l       (US$)
A. Maintenance Equipment
1.  Portable Crushing and
Screening Plant (40 tph)          2        280,000       560,000
2.  Diesel-Electric Generator
Unit (200 kw)                     2         60,000       120,000
3.  Stockpile Conveyors
(24" x 60 feet)                  6          20,000       120,000
4.  Mobile Wiorkshop Unit,
Truck-mounted, with 5 ton
crane                             4         80,000      -320,000
5.  Aggregate Spreader, towed         4          15,000       60,000
6.  Backhoe Excavator,
1.5 cu. m. capacity              2         150,000       300,000
7.  Low-Bed Tractor-Trailer
(50 ton capacity)                 1        110,000       110,000
8.  Asphalt Distributor Trucks        4          55,000      220,000
9.  Portable Air Compressor with
Jack Hammers (6)                  2         42,000        84,000
10.  Portable (Hand) Compactors       30          9,000        27,000
11. Mobile Crane, Telescopic
(30 tons capacity)                1        250,000       250,000
12. Mobile Preventive Maintenance
Unit, Truck-Mounted               4         70,000       280t°°°
Subtotal                                               2,451,000
Spare Parts for above equipment (20%)                    489,000
Subtotal (A)/2                                         2,9409000
1/  Prices are CIF Santo Domingo as of June 1985.
2/ Local costs associated with delivery and transportation of equipment
(estimated at approximately US$80,000 equivalent) are not included in the
total. These local costs will be borne by the Government directly and are
included in Table 4.1.



- 35 -                   TABLE 4.3
Page 2 of 2
Number   IEnit Cosj    Total Cost
Item                        _of Units              (US$)/        (US$)
B,  Workshop Equipment, Spare Parts and Toole
1.  Dynamometer Set with
Accessories                      2          55,000       110,000
2.  Workshop Tools and Equipment /3 -           N.A.          50,000
3. Pavement Condition Measuring
Equipment                         1 Set     N.A.         530,000
4. Spare Parts and Equipment
for SEOPC's Maintenance
Training School                  -          N.A.         275,000
5. Spare Parts for Inventory,
Equipment Repair and Overhaul   -           N.A.       3,150,000
Subtotal (B)                                          4,115,000
Subtotal (A+B)                                        7,055,000
C. Training
1. Technical Assistance for
Maintenance Training             -          N,A.         620,000
20 Trainee Support Costs - SEOPC's
Maintenance Training School      -          N.A.         210,000
Subtotal                                                830,000
TOTAL (A+B+C)/4                                        7,885,000
3/  Hand tools for road maintenance and general use (cost estimated at
US$200,000 equivalent) are not included. Such tools will be obtained
locally by SEOPC using their own resources and are included in Table 4.1.
4/  Total is made up of US$7,265,000 (US$7,055,000 equipment, spare parts and
tools plus US$210,000 maintenance trainee support costs) and US$620,000
technical assistance costs.
N'f:  Detailed lists of workshop tools and equipment and of spare parts to be
purchased are in the Project File.
Source: SEOPC and Mission
,oy 1985



-36 -TIABL±  4 .4
IIl
_   __-iM  
ill~~    I| __  i|id Id  
I  ]    I iIm~     iii- ]



- 37 -
TABLE 4.5
DOYINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD RO,'D RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(USP MillToTn@)
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursed in             Cumulative
and Ouarter Ending            Quarter      F.Y.    Disbursement       %
1986
September             1985          3.5                       3.5        10
December              1985          2.0                       5.5        15
March                 1986          1.5                       7.0        20
June                  1986          2.0                       9.0        25
9.0.
1987
September            1986           3.0                      12.0        34
December              1986          2.5                      14.5        41
March                 1987          2.5                      17.0        47
June                  1987          3.0                      20.0        56
11.0
1988
September             1987          5.0                      25.0        70
December              1987          4.5                      29.5        82
March                 1988          2.0                      31.5        b8
June                  1988          1.5                      33.0        92
13.0
1989
September            1988           1.0                      34.0        95
December             1988          0.7                       34.7        97
March                 1989          0.5                      35.2        98
June                  1989          0.6                      35.8       100
2.8
Closing Date:  December 31, 1989
Note:
This disbursement profile deviates substantially from that of the
average highway project in the Latin American and Caribbean Region, as shown
in the table below.  Nevertheless, the Diebursement Schedule shown above has
been used, for this project, for the following reasons-
a)  All engineering work for the civll works sections has been completed,
contracts have been awarded and work is underway;
b)  Since this project is a continuation of a previous one (Loan 17B4-DO), a
careful field assessment of work required to complete the roads,
including a detailed cost estimate based on known unit prices (see
Project File), was carried out. This data, together with scheduling
based on known contractor capabilities, provides a realistic assessment
of project time requirements;
c)  The project includes a substantial amount of retro-active financing,
increasing early disbursements; and
d)  Procurement of goods and other project activities can easily be carried
out within the time frame shown for completion of the civil works.
Disbursement Profiles for the Average lUghway Project in the
Latin American and Caribbean Region
Years from Date of Board Approval   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8
Cumulative Disburaments (%)            4    16   34   55   73   86   94  100
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1985



- 38 -
DOMINICAM REPUBLIC                          TABLE 4.6
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Methods of Procurement by Project Component
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Component                     ICB         LCB       Other       N.A.     Total Cost
A. Civil Works
(i)  Road Reconstruction            -           -         1.5       27.3/1        28.8
-          -        (1.1)      (19.6)        (20.7)
(i) Rural Road Improvement          -          1.8         -         -             1.8
-        (1.3)        _          _            (1.3)
B. Procurement of Goods
(i)  Maintenance Equipment         3.5          -        0.1         -             3.6
(3.5)                  (-)         -            (3.5)
(ii) Workshop Equipment,
Spare Parts and Tools         4A8         -         0.2         -             5.0
(4.8)        -         (-)         -            (4.8)
C. Consulting Services
(i)  Supervision of Road
Reconstruction                -           -          -         1.6            1.6
_  __t(1.6)           (1.6)
(ii) Technical Assistance for
Transport Planning and
Paving Techniques                         -         3.0         -             3.0
-       (3.0)        -            (3.0)
(iii) Technical Assistance for
Maintenance Operations
and Training                              -         0.9         -             0.9
-          -        (0.9)        -            (0.9)
TOTALS /2                     8.3         1.8       5.7        28.9          44.7
(8.3)      (1.3)      (5.0)      (',1.2)       (35.8)
1/ All civil works contracts have already been awarded and are underway.
_/ Including contingencies.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Source: Mission Estimates
Ma,y 1985



ANNEX 1
-                P~~~~~rg-A  1of 3
- 39-
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Status of the Road Reconstruction Component
1.        The road reconstruction component of the proposed project includes
the completion of civil works on three roads: Santo Domingo-San Pedro de
Macoris, Santiago-San Francisco de Macotis and San Juan de la Maguana-Las
Matas de Farfan. Reconstruction works on these roads were initiated under
the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1784-DO).
2.        The reconstruction consists of raising and widening the platform
along the existing alignments and improving cross drainage. The pavement
structure to be built includes selected gravel or crushed calcareous
materials covered with an asphalt carpet or a double bituminous surface
treatment.
3.        Contracts           -construction of the three project roads
(150 km) were awarded durri.L, -81, following a regular ICB process.  The
original date for completing the reconstruction was November 1983.  The
original contract amount for all three roads was about US$28.1 million.
In.-;;ally, execution of the works was delayed because of inadequate and
incomplete engineering designs. The problems caused by these poor designs
prompted SEOPC to engage the supervising consultants to redesign all the
project roads. To this end, a contract was signed in December 1981, and new
engineering designs were completed in July 1982. Although the design
standards were reduced from 11.0 m to 9.5 m of platform width and from 7.0 m
to 6.5 m of pavement width, the resulting estimates w<:re 30% higher than the
original contract amounts. A major cost increase resulted for the Santo
Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris Road as the new desiga of the pavement struc-
ture included utilization of river gravel which had to be hauled about
64 km, through the City of Santo Domingo, to the project site; SEOPC
studied the problem and further modified the consultant's design to use
instead the calcareous materials locally available along the project road.
This new engineering design was finally approved by SEOPC in December L982.
By February 1983, all contracts were re-negotiated as final revised designs
were approved and new work quantities were estimated. The overall contract
amount increased from the original US$28.1 million to about US$32.0 million.
The new contracts were finally signed In November 1983 since, until then,
the financing possibilities had been uncertain.  When the Bank agreed to
consider the Third Road Reconstruction Project, works on all three roads
were restarted. All of the circumstances described above slowed progress
almost to a standstill during the first two years of project implementa-
tion. At the present time, on an overall basis, the works are about 50%
complete.
4.        A comparison between the revised contract amounts and the final
estimated costs shows the following:



ANNEX 1
- 40 -                       Page 2 of 3
Costs in US$ millions
Bank Financing
From      From
Basic Contract  Estimated    Loan        this
Project Roads              Amount      Total Cost   1784-DO   Projectll
(i) Santiago-San Fco. de
Macoris (54.2 km)            14.2           19.3       6.0         7.5
(ii) St. Domingo-San Pedro
de Macoris (64.6 km)         12.1           13.6       4.4         5.1
(iii) San Juan-Las Matas de
Farfan (31.5 km)              5.7            7.7       0.6         4.8
32.0           40.6       11.0       17.4
1/ Without contingencies.
The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange component required
to complete the road reconstruction, which amounts to US$17.4 million
(without contingencies).
5.        Reconstruction works on the three project roads were divided into
five major contracts. At the present time, the status of the different
contract road sections is as follows:
(i) Santiago-San Francisco da Macoris (54.2 km>
(a)  Santiago-Moca (17.8 km)
The project, as of April 1985, wa8 about 98% complete. The
contractor expects to complete the works by July/August
1985 if funds become available.
(b)  Moca-Tenares (21.7 km)
Work on this project is totally suspended and the contractors
have abandoned the site.  SEO2C has begun action to rescind
the contract but no final deciion has been reached.
Negotiations between the contra-tors and SEOPC are under
way. The project is only about 5% completed.
(c) Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris (14.7 km)
The contractor has raised the subgrade with granular materiaLI
and has completed all drainage structures. UOvrall progresa,
now about 80%, has been delayed by the relocation of a water
supply pipe out of the right-of-way. Subgrade and base
course have been completed, but no pavement surface has been
inst&lled. Deterioration, under the action of weather and
traffic, is increasing rapidly.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
- 41 -
(ii)  Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris (64.6 km)
Execution of the works was originally programed over a two-year
period starting in February 1981. Problems with the design
allowed only minimum progress, and works were suspended in
November 1982. The contractor resumed works in February 1983, as
soon as SEOPC completed the new design, including the definition
of the type and source of materials to be used for the base
layer. Overall progress as of March 1985, was about 802.
(iii)  San Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de Farfan (31.5 km)
The contract for the construction work was awarded to a domestic
firm in February 1981 with completion originally scheduled for
June 1983. In addition to the problems caused by the poor quality
of the original design with which the road works were started, the
contractor was technically and financially weak. The contractor
has received financial support which has allowed him to increase
his effective capacity. As of April 1985, about 40% of the works
had been completed.
May 1985



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
- 42 -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Preliminary Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
Bituminous Surface Treatments
1.        Objectives
The technical assistance would help SEOPC to upgrade, through a
functional training program, the capability of the Directorate for Highway
Maintenance and the domestic construction industry to carry out bituminous
surface treatments. The following are the major objectives:
(i) To ensure that the technical field staff of SEOPC's Directorate
for Highway Maintenance and that of the donestic construction
industry acquire a sound knowledge of the basic principles, design
criteria and construction methods for bituminous surface
treatments;
(ii) To improve current construction practices; and
(iii)  To ensure that the technical staff acquire the necessary expertise
to program, budget, implement and control bituminous surface-
treatment operations.
2.        Scope of the Assistance
(i) The consultants will review current bituminous surface
treatment practices at SEOPC, including, but not necessarily
limited to, the following:
(a) methods of construction, supervision and traffic control;
(b) suitability and mechanical conditions of the equipment;
(c) availability and suitability of materials;
(d) methods of asphalt storage and heating;
(e) design procedures; and
(f)  expertise of operators and medium level technicians.
(i-)  Upon completion of their review, the consultants will prepare a
specific, functional and technical training program, which will
cover, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
(a)  short term seminars for SEOPC and contractors' technical
staff and for medium level technicians. The state of the art
of bituminous surface treatments should be covered in full
depth.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
- 43 -
(b)  on-the-job training conducted by the consultants.  For this
purpose, spe:4fic road reconstruction or maintenance projects
should be selected by SEOPC in close coordination with the
consultants.  During this phase, emphasis should be given to
quality control of crushed rock aggregates and asphaltic
materials, preparation of surfaces for bituminous surface
treatments, application of gravel chips and asphalt binders,
compaction methods and traffic control.
(c) preparation of a practical manual for sealing to be used by
SEOPC.
3.        Staffing
The technical assistance will be provided by the following
specialists:
(i)  A highway engineer, who will be the program leader and
coordinator, with experience in planning, programing and
supervision of asphalt paving operations (12 months);
(ii) A highway engineer, with background in soils and materi i.ls and
experience in construction of asphalt surface treatments
(24 months); and
(iii) A construction supervisor (Civil Engineer), with experience In
organization, execution and control of asphalt paving operations
(12 months).
It is envisaged that the technical assistance program will be catried out
over a period of two years and will require a total of 48 man-months. A1L
staff must be fluent in Spanish.
4.        Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
SEOPC's Directorate for Highway Maintenance will be the executing
agency. The permanent staff of engineers of the Directorate for
Highways and the Directorate for Highway Maintenance and the
technical staff of the contractors will be the recipients of the
assistance. SEOPC may consider the inclusion of university
graduates and engineers employed by local consulting firms with
which SEOPC normally has contractual relations.
5.        Reporting
The consultants will be required to report to the Director General
for Highway Maintenance as follows:
(i) An inception report containing the consultants' findings and
recommendations for a specific training program; this report
should be presented one month after mobilization; and
(ii) Quarterly reports during the period that services are rendered.
May 1985



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
- 44 -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Preliminary Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to Implement a Transport Planning and Management System
I. OBJECTIVES
(1)  Implement a transport planning system using, when possible,
methodologies, manuals, computer programs and other planning
elements available at SEOPC and other transport agencies;
(2)  Revise, based on operational experience, available planning
elements and initiate, on a routine basis, collection of the
information required;
(3)  Train SEOPC's staff for continued planning, programing and
monitoring of the transport sector;
(4) Initiate, on a systematic and continuous basis, formulation of
three-year transport investment programs; and
(5)  Evaluate actual and alternative transport policies, in
particular those related to transport coordination and
programing, managing and monitoring of each mode, and assist in
implementing those approved.
II. SCOPE
Specialized consultant services will be required for all modes of
public transport (highways, feeder roads, road transport, ports and
shipping, airports and commercial aviation). Services will be rendered by a
consulting firm or joint venture of firms in the following way:
A.   Initial Activities
A Coordinator will start work four (4) months before the arrival
of the main modal experts. During this period, the Coordinator will:
(a) Review existing reports, studies, plans, programs and data;
(b) Coordinate and assist ongoing transport studies; and
(c)  Schedule future joint work of the Office of Programing and
Development (OPD) and consultants; identify counterpart staff
needs and assist in recruiting the staff, if required.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
- 45 -
B.   Transport Planning
The consultants will:
(a)  Review, update, process and document available traffic, revenue
and cost data; identify needs and initiate the routine collection
of additional information; ensure adequate use of all data;
(b) Prepare traffic, revenue and cost analyses and projections;
(c) Review laws, decrees, regulations and other policies and
procedures related to planning, management and monitoring of the
transport sector; identify and separate economic and other
objectives pursued or intended by such policies;
(d) Quantify and analyze economic and financial costs and benefits
derived from the application of laws, decrees, regulations,
policies and procedures;
(e) Evaluate policies, recommend ways and timing for implementation
and assist in implementing those which are approved;
(f)  Determine costs, both economic and financial, of operating
transport modes and of providing transfer-terminal transport
services;
(g)  Review costs of distribution (to wholesale or processing centers)
of the principal products or group of products, locally and
internationally traded, and recommend measures to reduce the
incidence on production costs, consumers' and/or exporters' price;
(h)  Develop and implement continued monitoring of studies, plans,
programs and projects, as part of the transport sector planning
and management system;
(1) Train SEOPC's and other transport agencies' staff in all
activities indicated and set up permanent training; and
(j) Initiate annual formulation of three-year transport plans,
including capital investments and current expenditures.
C.   Individual Transport Modes
For each public transport mode, the consultants will:
(a)  Evaluate existing capacity vis-a-vis actual and projected demand
and identify possible bottlenecks;
(b)  Formulate and implement approved recommendations to improve or
rationalize capacity and operations, including, in the case of
highways, an inventory system based on physical measurement of
pavement deflections and roughness to be used to rationalize and
improve road maintenance and reconstruction programs;



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
- 46-
(c) Review and revise, if necessary, procedures for obtaining traffic,
including origin and destination data and the costing, accounting
and auditing systems and data in use;
(d) Identify needs for additional data, schedule and initiate
collecting it on a routine basis, and ensure adequate use of all
data;
(e) Evaluate policies (fiscal, tariffs, regulation, etc.) and
management effectiveness for consistency with economic development
objectives and transport sector/modal efficiency; recommend form
and timing for implementation and assibt in implementing those
approved;
(f) Develop and implement continued monitoring of studies, plans,
programs and projects for each mode as part of the planning and
management system for the sector; and
(g) Initiate annual preparation of three-year modal programs,
including capital investments and current expenditures.
III. SCHEDULE AND REPORTS
Consultant services will be carried out in four (4) phases.  No
subsequent phase will be started it the preceding one has not been
completed.
Phase 1 (Months 1-4)
Activities described under Section IIA preceding will be carried
out during this phase. A report corresponding to this phase will be
presented after the initial two (2) months, including results of the review
of available, transport-planning-related methodologies, manuals, computer
programs, procedures and others; work carried out to coordinate ongoing
related studies; and proposed detailed work progran for consultants and
counterpart staff. During the third month, SEOPC will (a) discuss and
approve the work program; (b) reach agreement with other transport agencies
to obtain their support and participation; and (c) if required, complete the
counterpart staff with assistance from the consultant coordinator. During
the last two (2) months of Phase 1, the consultant coordinator will continue
to assist ongoing studies, obtain information and ensure that all transport-
related agencies and SEOPC's directorates know and support the objectives of
the Planning and Management System to be implemented.
Phase 2 (Months 5-10)
During this phase, the activities listed under Section IIB (a, b,
c, d, f, g, h, i) and Section IIC (a, c, d, f, g) will be carried out. OPD,
with the consultants, will prepare and submit working papers with the
analyses, findings and recommendations of eazh completed activity. These
documents will be reviewed by SEOPC and other involved agencies, and
comments will be made within 45 days of receiving the working papers. OPD
and the consultants will review all comments and take then into account in
subsequent developments.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
- 47 -
Phase 3 (Months 11-12)
During this phase, a preliminary transport investment program will
be completed and sent for review and comments by all sector agencies.
Phase 4 (Months 13-24j
This period will be used to formulate, evaluate and start
implementing new policies and to complete the tasks indicated in Sections
IIB and IIC. During this phase, OPD, with the consultants, will prepare
working papers and send them to the pertinent transport agencies for
comments. A first three-year National Transport Plan will be completei by
month 20, Including all relevant comments. This document will be submitted
for approval by the Economic Cabinet. By month 22, a final report will be
submitted describing briefly the results of implementing the transport
planning and management system and the recommendations for further progress.
May 1985



Work Schedule
Months                    Phase I   Phase II  Phase III            Phase IV
-          - -----                     -                 Man-mocnths
Staff                                        2   4   6   8 10        12      14  16  18  20  22  24
Consultants
Coordinatco                                        _                                              _        22
Transport Economist                           _       _       _              - _      -   - _      _
StatisticsfSystems Analyst                            _
Roads Specialist                                                                                            4                      c
Port/Navigation Specialist                                    _                                             P
Airports/Aviation Specialist                                                                                3
Road Transport Industry Specialist                                                                          3
Policies and Regulation Specialist                                                                  i5
Other Specialists                                           --- ----- --------__                      1     4
Supervisor                                       --------                                                   2
Total                                    l   l   l   lll77_!
0
May 1985                                                                                                                           f
tJ1



- 49 -                    ANNEX 4
Page I of 4
D1OMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Basic Assumptions for the Economic Evaluation
of the Road Reconstruction Component
A. Generz,l
1.        fraffic counts were updated and sets of projections made,
considering past trends and other related socio-economic data. For the
"without" project case, the condition of each road, as found before works
started, was used. No induced traffic was considered. The table on the
following page shows the ADT volumes on each road, Shadow prices were not
applied, and economic values were defined as financial costs net of fiscal
transfers. Besides construction and supervision costs, road maintenance and
vehicle operating costs were also calculated in economic terims. No residual
value was assigned at the end of a 15-year life period, considering the low
standards of design used. For each of the five road sections that
constitute the road reconstruction comiponent, economic rates of return were
calculated on the total investment, including the investments already made
and the proposed project. Sensitivity tests were performed for each road
component.
B. Santiago-San Francisco de Mi coris Road (53.1 km)
2.        This is an important link between Santiago, the second largest
city of the Dominican Republic, and San Francisco de Macoris. The provinces
of Espaillat, Salcedo and Duarte, with high rural population and
agricultural production, are in the area of influence of the road. The ERR
for all three sections of this road is 22%. Between Santiago and Moca (17.8
km), an ADT of 1,710 was recorded for 1983, of which 78% were light vehicles
and 22% were buses and trucks. Traffic was projected to increase at 3.2%
p.a.  The ERR is 20%.  The ERR, when costs are raised by 20%, is 17%; when
benefits are reduced by 20%, it is 17%. Present traffic levels and vehicle
composition on the remaining two sections are similar, i.e., 1,545 vehicles
(85% light) and 1,600 vehicles per day (87% light) respectively. The rate
of growth adopted for traffic on both sections is 4.4% p.a. The ERR for the
Moca-Tenares road section (21.7 km) is 28%. If costs are raised by 20%, the
ERR becomes 23%; if benefits are reduced in the same proportion, the ERR is
22%. For the Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris road section (14.7 km), the
ERR calculated is 20%.  Sensitivity tests conducted lowering benefits and
raising costs by 20% give ERRs of 16% and 17% respectively.
C. Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris Road (64.6 km)
3.        This road, including the branch to Boca Chica, was divided, at the
tlme of the appraisal of the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project (Loan 1784-DO), into five sections based on traffic differentials.
Both traffic level and composition are adversely affected by ongoing works
on the road and on the Bayaguana-Cruce San Isidro road (33.0 km). The



mm      C RWlx     i IRC,q M
ThRD ZD         ~        
vWr  1ily Traffl  a lm a    under 0xuttm
kctl (1983)                                     ftuietetd (19M)
igh
ThOWSM1jAiM                             (kam)      Total     U.14t        ameS        Thvs         Total       Lift          uss        t
A. SantiW-B.Fc. ?hoorl
(1) S                                17.8       1,710      1,334        205         171          1,880      1,465        225         190
(I) !tba-Mmhss                        22.0       1,545      1,310         50         185         1,760       1,490         55        215
(Iii) T ew6.FbD. Nads                  14.5       1,600      1,390         15         195         1,82)       1,58D         17        223
IL Smt Oun"1  C P  wd 
(1) S.  91zw-sm ISdIm                10.3      6,40D       5,504        256         640         7,115       6,10         270        725
(Si) Son TSI1r. IL Odr                19.1        570         308         -          262           650         ms          -         315
(11) (C. B. Ggm-ak. Im   us           10.3        610         390                    22D           700         43D                   270
(iV)  r. Ins Lls-.P. 1Dr1a            2D.2        850         366         -          484           90          375         -          56_
(v) B  da-Cr. L   a                   4.7       ;.110        666         11         433          1,190        715         12        463
C    in Jub-in MIt                      31.5         8O0         576        88         13             875        63D         95         150
Somrm   Dtrectors±. few Laid Tapttm(SN) and M1siidi !tthmtes
Iky 1985
0%



- 51 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 3 or 4
traffic growth rate since 1979 has been low (between 2.6% and 4.7% p.a. for
different road sections). These rates have been used to project traffic up
to the end of the roads' economic life. Because the Santo Domingo-San
Isidro section is markedly different from the rest of the roads in traffic
characteristics, its benefits were analyzed separately from those of the
other four sections.  The ERR for the entire project road is estimated at
30%. Increasing costs by 20% yields an ERR of 27%, and decreasing benefits
by 20% yields an ERR of 26%.
D. San Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de Farfan Road (31.5 km)
4.        This road has a present ADT of 800 vehicles, 72% of which are
light. A 3% rate of annual growth was taken uniformly to project traffic on
this road. The ERR is 20%. Increasing costs and lowering benefits by 20%
give ERRs of 16% and 15% respectively.
May 1985



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Summary Results of the Economic Analysis
ADT
Rate of                                     Benefits
Growth      Base         Costs up 20%       Down 20%
Road/Section                                           ERR              ERR               ERR
A. Santiago-S.F. Macoris                     4.1         22              19                18
(i) Santiago-Noca                         3.2        20               17                17
(ii) Moca-Tenares                          4.4        28               23                22
(iii) Tenares-San Fco. de Macoris           4.4        20               17                16                        V
B. Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris        4.7        30               27                26                        1
C. San Juan-Las Matas                        3.0        20               16                15
D. All Roads                                            26               22                22
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1985
0
.9 9



- 53 -                    ANNEX 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1. Technical and Economic Study of the Transport Sector, Delcanda
International, July 1978.
2. Highway Rehabilitation and Administ:'ation Study, Lamarre Valois
International, 1974.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Economic Confirmation Study of Preselected Roads, Delcanda International,
April 1979.
2. Planning for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation, Roy Jorgensen
Assoc., 1979.
3. Series of Reports: - Road Maintenance Operations and Training, Roy
Jorgensen Assoc., July 1982-Sept. 1984.
4. Maintenance Personnel Training Program 1985-1988, Roy Jorgensen Assoc.,
August 1984.
5. Series of Reports: - Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshop
Administration and Operations - Equipment Overhaul, Repair and
Maintenance; Spare Parts Warehousing and Inventory Control, Overseas
Construction Services Company, 1982-1984.
C. Selected Working Papers
1. Detailed Cost Estimate - Road Reconstruction Component, Hanson-Rodriguez
Consultants, March 1985.
2. Detailed Lists and Cost Estimates:
(a) Workshop Equipment and Tools Required
(b) Spare Parts Required for Inventory
(c) Spare Parts Required for Phase I - Equipment Overhaul Program
(d) Spare Parts Required for Phase Il - Equipment C,erhaul Program
(e) Equipment, Spare Parts and Tools Required for Training Program In
Field (TPU) and SEOPC Maintenance Training School.
3. Project Cost Estimate Calculations
4. Economic Benefit-Cost Analysis Calculations.
May 1985



DOMINICAN REPUBUC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCIION PROJECT
OrganIza0tn Chart of the Secrtorat d State for
Public Wodr and Communications
I  GM*                           DtdSttehf
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~lcw
t~~~~~ub                               aut &CMMM
ES0ndh ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t,*pis fcP.~n 
D.cpcirt
Protattion~lawnon
L i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i swowdw a
COaieelOtW-LW
1/ Incorporated into the General Directorate for Highway Maintenance in April/15ay 1984.



72                                                                             71                                                                              7Q0
Luperon
o h _~~omCrb.oso
MONTE CRISTl                                 Se.,            
&=PUERTO) PLATA                                      /
,ie < o Vtu~~~~~~sqe to OCaya I§.t
GflOy~~j~~,1  G~~o~aones~~          Pa (,rr0                                 C'espor
SoicedoV -Soa CR                                                          trord tb_
_            N    p9>  Sobono Larqo                                                    0 A  E B,soro1
Jocse lZontrefas
de la                                                 JCNzI   V X'/ 
F S esi~~~omaJco de LI ou  D  ;>
Alro de           Cobrera          .         o.-c,                                                                Monte Ade tro Sr
La Polom  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     -         MO      ALCEDO
esla~~~~rcjoc;n ~~~Son Jose B' l~   a
de L as 'o tos.
uz ~de(..obrerO Qo~                                                                                                      I
LA
0;SoVEGA                                           R * Inc
j%Pedro Solona                                                                                                                                CcLaCenago  . 1  C I  r
-19°0_             r>                    C or rerodeYe;quos                                              -      {   9/C                 NJ  \/d                  Cei
N"PINA                               Juan de Herrero                 CoAsano                    Lo Sal      Vjo Los LgUnaes
Io PaI oPcePN JUAN                                                                                Piedro Blon                          -       a
/  El Cercado                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~     ~ ~~~~~~~Roncho'Ab  La  Vm
To                 Hond.,kslle                      Sa\a                           oa                                               Ma1ogu          MolenlHa
C Enrr io                             VaIIe1ueIo    Gronde EnNlzao                                                             V  lio AIa                     ; I tagrcca
Amana C-onrez                            La MItCOca                     Naconal 5
I          L Descubieria                                                                                                          El C
1Ok/                                                                                               Slo on Jose de Ocoo     a                  V
Blanco.k'oC                                                                                                             Ear Ag J
PEGERNALAE C< /IOBAI_AINAC
-18°   4  <                     ftel sarolso                J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,
9   eG9         e  De                    ENTEg
Puerto V,elo                              BN
Polmair Cie Ocoa
LoAltograoct                               &o       8 ARAH0f4A                        I asSi AIuc]d La Estonoo
Poloros
Cobo Rolo                                        nriquilo
0      10     20      30      40     50
OvIedo                                                                  II       I 
KILOMETERS
8eoak Is
72°                                                                            71°                                                                             70'
1      _.                                                                   I                                                                              I



70°                                                                            JA
At/antic  Oc6
4  /                                                                                   GUif// of Mexico                  BAHAMAS
C                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUIBA
C)
/~~~~~~
Gopor                      ,,                                                                                           C UP
eGospr ei                                                                                             *(       '       ~ i pEti 7  AMAK( A  HAIlT
Hernc,nder;7                                                                                                   -   't1' hC 1110 IRA
ATrI A. A '.J -   _--         Coribbean   Sea
I.                                                                                 Po,/,        (C;AV.At sP'  u A ;e          C
'e r2'05osC                                                                                                   Oceasn                            -        )Uc
PANAMA   C 'LOMBiA
nte Adentro
CEDO69
bares           %        kPI,    %.  NAGUA
Los Terrenos
os GAoleros
Ei a'i0i Slt IlpeI                    Villa Riva
/ ~~~~Rincon
* COT U           Cloro                                           Saoona de La Mar
'-E   -  J   ~~~Cvicos_                         
ioto     Af-heS Caron7
/le0o>        I /  as Lagunas    I    Grode )
f o                         N  iono     des  L.oya J c,ierrade AgVoBod;o
e  co   El Cidn Vila   Sn  IsMdlo                                                             RoO          Guerrercao                            ' A    
Ia Cuoir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5O-~~~~~~~~~Q,                                    C 
iolcto2o0.J      \         HAlNADO   1                                                    PEDO              EL SEIBO                            ocEl Macao
Mf  agf;i        MYlenitosaxu    jlt)        Qayaguon                                       MAYOR  o,0         c      ey DE O
deLa Estancra                                             DOMINICAN  REPUBLCLa Estrello  Moo
Villa Altagnoo       °                 La Bomrbo        .         O   ls          Palac-o          °|                                _     ra Cruz del Isleno
Aot;cci~~                                               PotctRod
e0cao    El  Cid,o       l        V,Z/\(C9SfGerf A.%''; ~21 ~g
SANJ        'or ANrA                                                                                        ROMANA                Rafl del YRmo
Vol1deswoa"                         ADOANADAI N    C                                4'SEAN P                             R IOAANA                   co deYonna
u°d aEtn,                                                  DOMINICAN  REPUBL IC
THIRD ROAD RECONS TRUCTION PROJ ECT                                                             5°oonv /S
- - ~Project Roadls
Emergency Road Recons truct ion Pro ject
Main Rorads
-   Seconndory Roads
This map has been prey
rhe World Sank's staff,
20      30      40      50                                 *        Airports                                                                     for the convenience ofI
I Z    r        I                                rt,       Ports                                                                        internal use of Trhe Wort
KIIOME TERS                                                                                                                                        pnd the lnternaiional Fin,
Rivers                                                                       Corporation The denorr
used and the boundarie.
Provincial Boundories                                                        on this map do not implI
part of The Wortd Bank
-  lnrernctionn-l Boundacries                                                    Inteornational Finance Co,
any ludgment on the ltog
of any territory or any
endorsement or accepla
7Q0                                                                               6°                                   such boundaries
I 



