Document of
The World Bank                                -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3788-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$35.8 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 26, 1985
This document has a resticted distributin and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Dominican Peso = DR$
US$1.00 = DR$3.00
(Estimated annual average of the f:Loating exchange rate for 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              2.20 pounds (lb)
I square kilometer (km2)  = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
I metric ton (m ton)       = 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
1 liter (1)                = 0.264 gallon (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
APD  -    Dominican Port Authority
CEA  -    State Sugar Council
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
FE  -    Foreign Exchange
ICB  -    International Competitive Bidding
IDB  -    Inter-American Development Bank
IMF  -    International Monetary Fund
IVA  -    Value Added Taxes
LIB  -    Limited International Bidding
LCB  -    Local Competitive Bidding
ONAPRES  -    National Budget Office
ONATRATE  -    National Office for Land Transportation
ONP  -    National Planning Office
OPD  -    Office of Programming and Development
SEOPC  -    Secretariat of State for Public Works and
Communications
STP  -    Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
UNDP  -    United Nations Development Program
USAID  -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Dominican Republic
Amount:         US$35.8 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable over 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project consists of: (i) completion of road
reconstruction works initiated under the Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1784-DO); (ii)
purchase of equipment, tools and spare parts for the road
maintenance fleet; (iii) technical assistance to improve the
planning, programming and executing capacity of the
Secretariat of State for Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC); (iv) technical assistance to the domestic contractors
and SEOPC staff to improve road paving techniques; (v)
technical assistance to SEOPC for maintenance operations and
training including support to SEOPC's maintenance t:raining
school; and (vi) construction and improvement of about 100 km
of rural roads using appropriate construction techniques.
RJisks:         No major technical risks are involved in the implementation of
the project. The only significant risk is related to the
overall weak fiscal situation of the country and the possible
difficulties to provide, on time, the required counterpart
funds. This risk is being reduced by the provision of a
revolving fund for local currency requirements.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performaice |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizition.



- ii -
LOCAL      FOREIGN        TOTAL
----------US$ million- -
ProJect Costa/:
Road Reconstruction                    7.5          17.4        24.9
Rural Road Improvements                0.5           1.1          1.6
Maintenance Equipment, Tools
and Spare Parts                      0.3           7.1          7.4
Consulting Services                    1.9           2.6         4.5
Total Base Costs                      10.2          28.2        38.4
Price Contingencies                    3.5           2.9          6.4
Total Project Cost b/                 13.7          31.0        44.7
Financing Plan
Government                             8.9                       8.9
IBRD                                   4.8          31.0        35.8
Total                                  13.7          31.0         44.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                  1986    1987    1988  1989
-------…IS$ million--------
Annual                                 9.0    11.0      13.0   2.8
Cumulative                             9.0    20.0      33.0  35.8
Rate of
Return:      Including "sunk costs" 26 percent on the full road
reconstruction investment, completion of which represents 65
percent of project base costs.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4888a-DO, dated June 19, 1985.
a/ Columns may not total because of rounding
b/ The Project is exempt from duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$35.8 MILLION
TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$35.8 million to help
finance a Third Road Reconstruction Project. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, Report No. 4735-DO, entitled
Dominican Republic: Economic ]?rospects and Policies to Renew Growth,, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 13, 1984. Country
economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of
Hispaniola, the island situated between Cuba and Puerto Rico in the long
mountainous archipelago that stretches 1,500 miles from the Gulf of klexico
into the Atlantic (Map IBRD 17932R). The country is endowed with a variety
of resources, including minerals, fertile soils suitable for sun-nourished
crops like sugar, and long beaches attractive to a growing number of
tourists. Its 5.9 millionl people had an average per capita income, in 1983,
of about US$1,380, placing it among the lower-tier of middle income countries
in Latin America.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1966-82)
4.        After a three-decade dictatorship and a brief but costly civil war
in 1965, the transition to fully participatory constitutional rule took place
slowly under the dozen-year presidency of Joaquin Balaguer. During rmuch of
this period, the Dominican Republic followed essentially conservative
macroeconomic policies.  Monetary and fiscal policies were tied closely to
changes in the external environment, and trade policies sought to exploit
easy opportunities for import substitution.   Favorable terms of trade and a
relatively high investment rate produced high rates of growth. From 1968 to
1974, real GDP increased by 11 percent annually, export prices and volume
grew by 15 and 9 percent, respectively. Real production in manufacturing
grew annually by 14 percent, construction by 18 percent, and the incipient
but dynamic mining sector by 38 percent.
5.        Several new economic and political forces gradually began to
undermine the foundation of this growth, and rates declined first to a yearly
average of 4 percent during 1975-81, and then to under 2 percent durLng
1982-84. External factors were important. Export prices became
substantially more volatile, adding more complexity to short-term.
macroeconomic management after 1974. Export prices reached a peak in 1975,
declined by 30 percent in the 1979 period, reached a new peak in 1981 and
then plummeted again by 40 percent in 1982.  The oil price shocks of 1974 and



- 2 -
1979 increased the fuel bill tenfold, raising it to US$500 million by 1981,
nearly 40 percent of the import bill. In ]L977 petroleum absorbed only 60
percent of sugar earnings, but by 1982 had risen to 133 percent. In the
1980s, export volumes also declined under the weight of the recession in the
industrialized countries; by 1982 export volumes had declined one-fifth from
their 1978 level. Similarly, rising interest rates on top of an increasing
debt took their toll; service payments on medium- and long--term public debt
rose from US$91 million in 1978 to US$249 in 1979. These external
factors--worsened terms of trade, low export volumes, and high interest
rates--caused GNP to be 8.8 percent lower in the 1979-81 period than it would
have been in the absence of these abrupt changes in the external environment.
6.        But focusing solely on external changes would ignore the fragility
of the economic development strategy built upon import substitution, growing
subsidies, and price distortions. The trade and foreign exchange regime
accorded high rates of effective protectiorn to several domestic industries
while penalizing potential new sources of exports. Moreover, during the late
1970s, the foreign exchange rate became increasingly overvalued. Although
pegged to the US dollar at par value, the conservative policies necessary to
retain parity had been gradually abandoned in the late 1970s. By 1982 the
premium on the dollar in the nation's long-established, free-floating
parallel market fluctuated around 45 percent, but was slowly moving upwards.
Another element of long-term fragility was tax policy and administration.
The tax burden declined from about 18 percent of GDP in 1970 to under 10
percent in 1982. Simultaneously, public enterprises which had contributed
positively to public savings, reaching historic highs in the mid-1970s,
became a drain on the treasury by 1982. Thus, while at the beginning of the
decade, public savings amounted to 8 percent of GDP, by the end of the decade
they had dwindled to zero and by 1982 they were negative.
7.        This poor performance was in part caused by the hostile external
environment, since the performance of the state-owned sugar company and
export taxes heavily influenced the savings rate of the public sector. But
other internal factors were nonetheless important. As Dominican society
gradually became more open and political participation broadened during the
1970s, new social groups made demands on the public sector and the governing
political parties responded with favorable tax treatment, subsidies, and
public sector jobs. After 1979 this tendency was translated into even more
costly defensive actions to cushion urban labor and middle class
constituencies from the need to adjust to externally imposed declines in real
income. Examples of these phenomena abound. The Government granted an
increasing number of tax exonerations to importing firms, and revenues from
import duties fell from 6.7 percent of GDP in 1971 to 2.2 percent in 1982;
this practice created even greater distortions in the trade regime.
Similarly, the new policies led to freezes on key public prices (food,
electricity, and petroleum). Thus, while the three principal state
enterprises had contributed a high of 2.6 percent of GDP to national savings
in 1975, by 1982 they were absorbing public subsidies worth 1.6 percent.
Likewise, after 1978, employment in the public sector increased at rates
nearly double those of the early 1970s.



- 3 -
8.        The high growth period of 1968-74 also masked inattention to
reforms in public sector institutions necessary to incorporate the poor into
the growth process, especially the rural poor. Even in the period of rapid
growth, the rural poor had received only a small portion of new inicome
generated. More than 40 percent of Dominicans live in absolute poverty, and
illiteracy and infant mortality rates are unacceptably high. Open and
disguised unemployment festered. The emergent anti-export bias took its toll
most heavily on the agricultural sector where most of the poor live, and
this, together with the pro-urban bias in new subsidies and employment, led
to accelerated rural-urban migration. Health investments mainly benefited
the cities. Education resources were directed more toward urban rather than
rural beneficiaries, and toward increasing opportunities in the high paying
professions rather than increasing the skills and productivity of the urban
and rural poor.
The Evolution of Public Policies Since 1982
9.          The new Government that took office in August 1982 concluded a
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the IMF in January 1983. As
part of the program, the Government raised taxes by one percent of GDP and
reduced the deficits of the large, inefficient state enterprise sector. It
improved the incentives for exporters and the efficient import substitution
by progressive transfers of imports and exports into the free-floating
parallel market. Finally, by year-end 1983, it had also reached ar agreement
in principle with its commercial creditors to reschedule US$660 million of
outstanding loans.
10.       However, the niew Government underestimated both the gravity and
complexity of the crisis.  As growth slowed in mid-1983, the Government
adopted an expansionary fiscal policy in the third quarter of 1983. This
only aggravated macroeconomic problems. Additional income was quickly
translated into more imports and capital flight; the floating rate jumped
from 165 percent of the official rate to more than 300 percent in the last
quarter and uncertainty spread. By year-end the Government had failed to
reduce the overall public sector deficit or the external imbalance, and did
not meet many of the targets of the EFF.
11.       Resolving the situation required greater fiscal cutbacks, taxes,
exchange rate adjustments, and credit restriction during 1984; this made the
conditions for the second year of the EFF more stringent, and eventually
politically unacceptable. By the end of 1984, the economic situation was
grave: the overall nonfinancial public sector deficit was 4.9 percent of GDP,
the Central Bank no longer had sufficient funds to service its ext:ernal debt
and make oil payments, as traditional exporters were withholding revenues
because the Central Bank gave them an exchange rate worth only half their
free market dollar value. External arrears on the foreign obligations of the
Central Bank grew to an estimated US$500 million. Debt service in 1985,
including arrears, was projected to exceed all current account receipts.



-4-
12.       Nonetheless, the situation changed abruptly in January 1985 when
the Government took several difficult measures to resolve the financial
crisis and reach a new Standby Arrangement with the IMF. The Government's
program implies actions on the foreign exchange rate, pricing of public
enterprises, public finances, monetary policy and external debt. The
multiple exchange rate has been unified at the floating parallel market rate,
tantamount to a 58 percent devaluation relative to the average effective
exchange rate prevailing in 1984. With the increase in costs that
devaluation implies, public enterprises in electricity, petroleum
distribution, food distribution, and manufacturing were compelled to raise
their prices. The price of electricity was increased by 36 percent initially
and followed by four percent monthly increases; petroleum prices were
increased by one-third, imported food prices rose by 56 percent (except
flour). The new program also entailed a package of tax increases that is
projected on the basis of year-to-date performance to raise the total tax
burden from 10.8 percent of GDP in 1984 to 16.3 percent in 1985. Interest
rates were permitted to rise to a maximum of 18 percent on large savings
certificates and non-bank financial companies were freed from ceilings on
commissions, effectively freeing their interest rates.
13.       The program is also designed to assuage the acute foreign debt
crisis caused mainly by short-term borrowing during the last two years.
Therefore, new net disbursements of loans in 1985 with maturities of less
than 12 years will be limited to US$64.2 mil:Lion, and the Government will
limit its borrowing to sources offering terms longer than 12 years.  In
addition, the Government has reduced its external arrears during 1985 and
restructured its foreign debt. After the approval of the Standby Arrangement
by the IMF Board on April 15, 1985, the Dominicans restructured their Paris
Club obligations on favorable terms, and are nearing completion of their
restructuring the commercial bank debt.
14.       The ratio of medium- and long-term external debt to GDP is
60 percent. It is estimated that in 1985 the ratio of service on medium- and
long-term debt to export of goods and nonfact:or services will be 41 percent
before reschedulings. Nonetheless, the recent rescheduling among the Paris
Club countries and the anticipated reschedulings with the commercial banks
are projected to reduce the debt service ratio to a more manageable
20 percent, slightly more than the interest service ratio for the year (17
percent). Taking into acount the proposed reschedulings for 1986-89, the
debt service ratio will hover around 20 percent for the remainder of the
decade if adequate policies are maintained. These reschedulings and policy
measures constitute major steps to position the economy for realizing its
growth potential. As long as the Government continues to meet its programmed
targets, we believe the country is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
15.         Bank lending in the Dominican Republic has consistently sought to
promote a more diversified economic base, a miore viable macroeconomic policy
environment, and institutional reforms that would promote more broadly shared
development.



16.       The Bank Group began its operations in the Dominican Republic in
1969 with a loan supporting the development of extended lateritic nickcel
deposits. Since then, three IDA credits and 16 Bank loans (one of whLch--a
US$7.1 million loan for a municipal technical assistance project--was
cancelled) have been made. The IFC has made four investments: an industrial
credit facility (cancelled), a cement plant, a cotton production and ginning
project, and a leasing institution. As of March 31, 1985, the total of IDA
credits and Bank loans outstanding was US$275.3 million of which US$99.5
million were undisbursed. Annex II includes a summary of Bank Group
operations and IFC investments; notes on the execution of ongoing projects
have been distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
17.        Bank Group loans and credits have financed one nickel mining
operation; two education projects; one vocational training project; two
tourism projects; one livestock project; two irrigation projects; three road
construction and maintenance projects; one population and family health
project; one urban development project; one sugar rehabilitation project; one
coffee and cocoa rehabilitation project; one project for urgent imports for
reconstruction and a power and ports engineering project.
18.       The country's institutional weaknesses have hampered project:
implementation and disbursement performance. Most projects have been plagued
with managerial weaknesses, delays in getting congressional ratification,
unavailability of required counterpart funds, changes in leadership and
policies. These problems have afflicted the irrigation, sugar rehabilitation
and urban development projects. In the last few years the difficult fiscal
situation has caused a slowdown in the implementation of all public
investment projects.
19.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in the Dominican
Republic. Among the most iimportant are the Inter-American Development: Bank
(IDB), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and
the United Nations system. The IDB retains a diverse program with emphasis
on agriculture, public health, transport, energy and education but also
including important investments in the industrial and mining sectors, and
urban development. To date, the IDB has approved 56 lending operations for
more than US$960 million equivalent (of which about US$465 million have been
disbursed to date) and in addition has delivered important technical
assistance services. In the future IDB plans to maintain a strong prcgram
with loans to the energy, agricultural, industrial and mining sectors, and to
high-priority social projects int the fields of education and rural
development.
20.       USAID emphasizes food aid programs complemented by food production
programs. Other USAID assistance is directed to small/medium industrial
development, energy conservation, vocational education and skills training,
primary education and housing. The United Nations system provides a variety
of technical assistance and pre-investment support, and sponsors an important
mineral reconnaissance program. In addition, other donors (Federal Republic
of Germany, France, Sweden, Venezuela) support assistance programs in
selected sectors; much of their benefits flowing to the urban, energy and
power sectors.



-6-
Bank Strategy
21.       The economy of the Dominican RepublLc is overly dependent on a few
stagaant export crops. The price of sugar--a crop which traditionally had
accounted for 30-40 percent of the country's exports--continues to fluctuate
around historic lows and the prospects for improvement in the near future are
decidedly bleak. Unemployment will continue to be high, and absolute poverty
far more pervasive than the country's per capita income would indicate. The
Bank's strategy is to help the Government focus on long-term objectives and
reforms that will position the country to takfe better advantage of available
growth opportunities through export diversifization and improve the
employment opportunities of the poor.
22.       The near-term lending strategy of the Bank is built on a small
number of well-targeted investment projects, since the Dominican Government
will continue to experience severe shortages of local funds to match project
lending. Besides the proposed project, the Bank contemplates projects to
help improve infrastructure, necessary to improve the country's new emphasis
on diversified exports and efficient import substitution. These include a
power project and a project for the construction of a coal terminal. The
Bank also approved recently a modest vocational training project designed to
upgrade the skills, productivity, and therefore incomes of selected
low-income working groups.
23.       Past economic work has identified essential sectoral reforms which
the Bank could support with policy-based lending. In agriculture,
impediments to exports inherent in tax and investment policies of the
Government must be removed to ensure maximum growth and diversification of
the country's exports. Also, food pricing policy should be revised to permit
automatic adjustments in response to changes in costs and market conditions.
In industry, the system of incentives to importers and exporters must be
reformed to enhance manufactured exports and promote efficient
labor-intensive import substitution. In energy, the Government will have to
revise its prices regularly in line with changing cost and market conditions
as well as undertake substantial institutional and administrative reforms in
the power generation sector. In health policy, administrative reforms to
improve health care delivery to low income groups together with population
programs could help mitigate the effects of short-term adjustment on the poor
while curbing the high population growth rate.
24.       The proposed project is consistent with this strategy: it is a
financially feasible, well focused project which provides urgently needed
transport infrastructure to link producers to export markets. In the long
run, it will contribute to Government efforts to increase and diversify the
country's production.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
25.       The Dominican Republic has developed a relatively dense transport
network which includes about 17,000 km of roads, 1,700 km of railways, 80 km
of pipelines, 15 ports (three major ones) and nine airports (two with



-7-
scheduled international services). The essentially primary economy depends
heavily upon an adequate transport system. Domestic transport consists
mainly of export commodities to the ports and internal trade in agricultural
products from the Cibao Valley, and industrial and consumer goods mainly from
Santo Domingo. Domestic transport of freight and passengers is predominantly
by road. Sugarcane is the only commodity transported mainly by rail.
Institutional Framework
26.       Transport policy and planning are the domain of the Secretariat of
State for Public Works and Communications (SEOPC). Its Directorates for
Highways and Highway Maintenance are responsible, for all highway
construction and maintenance respectively. Other important administrative
and operational units of SEOPC are the Department of Ports and Wharves,
handling construction, dredging and maintenance in ports, and the Directorate
for Rural Roads, entrusted with the construction and care of feeder roads.
SEOPC's share of total Government expenditures has reached 11 percent on
average over the past four years, which compares with 5 percent in the late
1970s; expenditures for construction and maintenance of highways and feeder
roads are close to 8 percent. Planning and implementation of the transport
sector investment program remain difficult since planned and budgeted
expenditures are not necessarily matched by effective allocations. Aware of
this difficulty, the current administration established in May 1983 the
Office of Programming and Development (OPD), a special transport planning
unit within the SEOPC, to rationalize planning and policies covering all
modes of transport. The Government intends to review the present
organization of the SEOPC with a view to eventually converting it into a
Secretariat of State for Transportation, this would enhance more rational and
comprehensive planning and implementation of transport policies.
The Transport Subsectors
Roads
27.       The road network totals about 4,680 km, including about 1,L50 km
(24 percent) of trunk (primary) highways, 2,320 km of regional (secondary)
roads, and 1,200 km of local (tertiary) roads. In addition, there aire about
12,600 km of rural roads. About 3,250 km of the road network have paved
surfaces. However, the network suffers from inefficient maintenance
practices, poor design and planning, and lack of equipment and funds.
Consequently, about 66 percent of the network is in poor condition, and
deterioration is rapid. Many highways, built some 30 years ago to
rudimentary design criteria, are narrow, lack adequate drainage, are easily
flooded in the plains and tortuous in the hills, and are kept open to traffic
only through emergency repairs. The situation with regard to the feeder
roads is equally critical: about 80 percent of the feeder road network is
seriously deteriorated.
28.       SEOPC started systematic collection of traffic data only in 1981.
In 1982 freight traffic on trunk roads was about 9 million tons. Indications
are that traffic growth was near zero in both 1983 and 1984, reflecting the
economic recession that afflicts the country.



-8-
29.       Truck weight limits are enforced at seven weighing stations.
Although overloading occurs, the main problem is that most of the network was
built for lower axle loads than the legal limit allows. Freight tariffs are
regulated and established in consultation with interest groups.  SEOPC
assists the Directorate for Price Controls of the Secretariat for Industry
and Commerce in enforcing tariffs.  For interurban passenger transport,
tariffs are set by the owners of the vehiclee.  About 9,100 vehicles are part
of the registered fleet for interurban passenger transport,, of which 17
percent are buses with diesel-powered engines.
30.       The fiscal revenues obtained from taxes on gasoline and lubricants,
import duties on vehicles and spare parts, tolls, license plates, vehicle
registration and transfers are very important and exceed the investments andl
current expenditures on roads. Revenues from taxes on gasoline alone in 1982
represented about 9 percent of total tax revenues.
31.       Earlier this year the domestic retail prices of gasoline and diesel
fuel were increased to DR$3.95 per US gallon, which exceeds the international
opportunity cost of DR$2.4 per US gallon for both fuels.
32.       Highway construction and maintenance is being rationalized
following the strengthening of the Directorate for Highways and the creation
in 1983, of a separate Directorate for Highway Maintenance. Highway designs
are carried out both by staff of the SEOPC and through contracts with
consultants. Construction work is normally entrusted to contractors, both
local and foreign. Emergency works and most: maintenance are carried out by
force account. The planning capacity, however, is not yet fully developed
and existing work programs mostly relate to ongoing projects or projects
proposed for external financing. The Office of Programming and Developmelent
is expected to contribute to an improvement of this situation.
33.       Feeder roads studies, construction and maintenance are the
responsibility of SEOPC's Directorate for Rural Roads.  With USAID and IDB
support, this Directorate is building up its maintenance capability and has
established a five-year program for the maintenance of 3,500 km and the
rehabilitation of 1,200 km of rural roads. With Bank assisltance (Loan
1784-DO), labor-intensive rural road construction is also being implemented
on a pilot basis. Intermediate technologies are also being tested. An
evaluation of the different technologies is being prepared allowing for an
assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the labor-based construction program.
Ports
34.       The Dominican Republic has 15 commercial ports, nine serving
foreign trade, two tourism and four domestic. coastal traffic. Six ports are
located on the northern coast, the remaining nine along the southern coast.
Three ports are privately operated and serve captive traffic of their
respective owners. Three ports serving the Santo Domingo area (Haina, Santo
Domingo and San Andres) handle two-thirds of the foreign traffic, estimated
at an average 5.3 million tons per annum in 1982-83. Haina is the country's
principal port and is presently being expanded through construction of a
major container terminal, with IDB financing.



- 9 -
35.       The Dominican Port Authority (APD) a relatively recent institution,
owns and manages the ports of Santo Domingo (including the passenger terminal
of Sans Souci), Haina and San Andres. Eventually, the APD will operate all
other ports. So far, it onily provides security, general supervision, some
storage, and shore handling and administration of lands and concessions.
Most cargo handling is done by private companies.
Railways
36.       The total length of the railway network is 1,725 km and is almost
entirely devoted to the transport of sugar cane to the mills: the Stat:e Sugar
Council (CRA) owns and operates 1,036 km of rail network and the other
principal sugar companies own about 615 km of railroad. In addition, a
Government-owned salt operation owns 33 km of track, a banana plantation some
38 km, and the ferronickel smelting plant (Falconbridge) a short 3 km line
carrying smelter residuals to dumping areas.
Pipelines
37.       There are about 80 km of pipelines in the country.  Of these, one
74 km line is owned and operated by Falconbridge to transport crude oil
between the port of Haina and its ferronickel smelting plant close to Bonao.
The remaining lines are short sections basically used for transportirng
imported oil to storage tanks.
Air Transport
38.       There are four airports serving both scheduled and chartered
international traffic: Las Americas (Santo Domingo), Puerto Plata, La Romana
and Santiago. The first two have runways of over 3,000 m long and are
designed to receive B-747s. La Romana airport, with an 1,800 m paved runway,
is operated by La Romana Corporation for international charter flights.
Santiago's airport is also paved and has a runway close to 1,600 m long. In
1982, Santo Domingo airport handled 88 percent of total passenger traffic and
33,650 tons of exports.
39.       Regular services are provided by Dominicana de Aviacion--the
national airline--and eight foreign carriers. Dominicana de Aviacion
operates entirely on international routes. In the last few years it: has kept
its share of the international passenger market to and from the Dominican
Republic more or less constant at 35 percent. Domestic services, limited
because of the small size of i:he country, are provided by Alas del Caribe,
the only domestic carrier with scheduled flights.
Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector.
40.       In the transport sector, the Bank has made three loans for road
maintenance and reconstruction. The First Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316-DO, US$5.0 million, 1976) provided for the
reconstruction of a section of the main road connecting the capital with
Santiago, the second most important city of the Dominican Republic. Other



- 10 -
components were a bridge rehabilitation program and support to the road
maintenance department of SEOPC. The Project Performance Audit Report No.
3716 (Sec.M 81-987) of 1981, indicates that project implementation generally
developed as planned but price increases forced a reduction of the scope of
the project as it took 2.5 years to achieve congressional ratification and
effectiveness of the loan. The next Bank operation was an Emergency Road
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1783-DO, US$25.0 million, 1980). It supported
the reconstruction of 150 km of hurricane-damaged roads connecting the
agricultural areas of the northwest with Santiago, the center of the region,
and in the southwest with Santo Domingo. Because of its emergency nature,
the project was initiated without adequate design standards.  The designs
required revisions, resulting in an unfinanced gap: only 70 percent of the
project was completed when loan funds were depleted. On April 20, 1983, the
Bank approved (R83-97) the use of funds from loan 1784-DO (Second Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project) to close this gap. The Project
Completion Report, dated December 1984, indicates that beginning
implementation of the project on the basis of incomplete engineering work was
the primary cause of long delays and cost increases but that the project,
once completed, remained economically justified.
41.       The Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan
1784-DO, US$35.0 million, 1980) provided financing to reconstruct 150 km of
priority primary and secondary paved roads, upgrade maintenance operations
and investigate the utility of labor-based techniques for rural road
construction. The project also included a technical assistance program for
road maintenance and training of maintenance personnel, as a continuation of
the program financed under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project (Loan 1316-DO). The closing date for this loan is Jtne 30, 1985.
The amendment of April 1983 referred to above (para 40) resulted in an
unfinanced gap of civil works originally included in the loan. The
Government requested the Bank to consider a new project to secure financing
of this gap and also to continue to support improvement in maintenance
planning, operations and training as well as other instituticn-building and
rural road construction efforts.
42.       The Bank financed Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1760-DO,
US$35.0 million, 1979) includes a component for improving parts of the sugar
railroad network. In addition, in December 1983, the Bank approved the Itabo
Coal Terminal and Power Engineering Project (Loan 2369-DO, US$3.8 million)
which includes a component for the financing of technical assistance for
studies and engineering of a proposed coal terminal facility for the Itabo
power plant.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The Bank has provided support to the highway sector in the
Dominican Republic in the reconstruction of key links of the highway network,
and in building up the capacity to maintain it. As the country depends
largely on road transport for the production and marketing of its primary



- 11 -
goods, the Government is giving priority to road reconstruction and
maintenance. There is a compelling need for completing ongoing work programs
to prevent the deterioration of important road segments and to develop the
capacity to effectively plan and manage the limited resources allocated to
the transport sector. The Government has requested Bank financing of an
important part of its road reconstruction program, assuring highest re!turn on
previous and concomitant investments.
44.       The proposed project was prepared by SEOPC and Bank staff during
the period May to August 1983, and appraised in October 1983. Postappraisal
and updating missions took place in February and November 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington from May 29 to 31, 1985. The Dominican Delegation
was headed by Mr. Pedro Delgado Malagon, Secretary of Public Works and
Communications. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4888a-DO) dated June 19, 1985
is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed project would: (i) complete ongoing road
reconstruction works originally included in the Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project (para 41 ), and support continued improvement of road
maintenance operations and training efforts, and the rural road
reconstruction and improvement program; (ii) assist in developing adequate
technical expertise in SEOPC for transport planning and pavement management,
including assistance to SEOPC and the domestic construction industry in
improving paving techniques.
Project Description
46.       The proposed project consists of (i) completion of road
reconstruction works, totaling about 150 km and involving three major roads
initiated under the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan
1784-DO) including construction supervision; (ii) purchase of equipnment,
tools and spare parts for the road maintenance fleet; (iii) technica,l
assistance to provide 77 man-months of consulting services to improve the
planning, programming and executing capacity of SEOPC; (iv) technical
assistance providing 48 man-months of consulting services to domesti.c
contractors and SEOPC staff to improve road paving techniques; (v) technical
assistance to provide 40 man-months of consulting services to SEOPC for
maintenance operations and training, including support to SEOPC's maintenance
training school; and (vi) construction and improvement of about 100 km of
rural roads using appropriate construction techniques.
Detailed Description and Project Implementation
47.       SEOPC would be responsible for project execution through the
following departments:
(a) The Directorate for Highways would be in charge of completing
the highway reconstruction works, with assistance from
consultants for construction supervision.



- 12 -
(b)  The Directorate for aLghway Maintenance would be responsible
for the technical assistance for surface treatments, the
purchase of equipment, tools, spare parts and workshop
equipment for the maintenance equipment overhaul program.  It
would also administer and execute the maintenance training
program.
(c) The Office of Programming and Development--under the direct
authority of the Secretary of SEOPC--would be responsible for
the transport planning and management program.
(d) The Directorate for Rural Roads would be responsible for
implementing the rural road component.
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
Civil Works/Road Construction
48.       The largest component of the proposed project is the completion of
a road reconstruction program of about 150 km, initiated under a previous
Bank project and includes three roads: (a) 54.5 km between Santiago and San
Francisco de Macoris, traversing one of the Dominican Republic's most
productive agricultural zones; (b) 31.5 km connecting two provincial centers
in the western development zone, close to the Haitian border; and (c) 64.4 km
which would improve traffic flows between Santo Domingo and the next most
important economic center in the southeast, San Pedro de Macoris. Contracts
for the reconstruction of the proposed roads were awarded during 1981 and
followed Bank international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. These
contracts were signed only in November 1983 after problems of inadequate
design and consequent cost increases had been resolved.
Road Maintenance/Equipment and Spare Parts
49.       Under two previous Bank supported projects, technical assistance
was provided to prepare and develop a road maintenance management system.
Standards for routine maintenance operations were developed and training
provided to technical personnel at all levels. While these investments are
providing reasonable returns,'the efficiency of the maintenance system is
constrained by shortages of suitable maintenance equipment and of spare
parts, in turn a consequence of the shortage of local funds. In order to
improve the situation, key pieces of equipment and spare parts for the
highway maintenance fleet would be provided under the project. The spare
parts would serve to set up an initial stock and to provide parts needed for
an equipment overhaul program. For this latter purpose, SEOPC's workshops
would be provided with equipment and tools; these workshops are otherwise
adequate and have a sufficient number of qualified staff.
50.       A particular problem in road maintenance has been the l'imited
expertise and experience of SEOPC's technical services and of the Dominican
construction industry in low cost road surface treatments for periodic
maintenance. The proposed loan would, therefore, include a small technical



- 13 -
assistance program intended for SEOPC's highway maintenance field engineers
as well as for the technical staff of domestic construction firms regiLstered
with SEOPC. The program would be primarily carried out in the field by
qualified consultants. SEOPC would select road sections in need of surface
treatment and provide necessary equipment and materials. Preliminary terms
of reference for this program have been reviewed with the Government and were
confirmed during negotiations.
51.       A further problem limiting effective periodic maintenance is the
shortage of key maintenance equipment. For instance, there is no equipment
for grading and shaping of stone chippings. Two mobile crushing and
screening units as well as four towed mechanical chip spreaders would be
provided under the proposed project. With this equipment, along with other
items to be provided under the project, SEOPC would be able to carry out
necessary surface treatment on about 150 km of two-lane roads each year.
The remaining periodic maintenance and rehabilitation requirements for
another 200 km of roads would be met by contracting with domestic
construction firms, once these firms have acquired the necessary equipment
and trained their technicaiL staff appropriately. Under the project, SEOPC
would carry out a periodic maintenance and rehabilitation program of not less
than 350 km per year. Such yearly programs would be presented for Bank
comments not later than June 30 of each year and implemented accordingly
(Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). It was further agreed on a
schedule of allocations for maintenance in SEOPC's budget for the period
1985-88.
Transport Planning
52.       Following the development of a transport planning and management
system under the previous project, the proposed project would also include
technical assistance to continue support and help fully implement such a
system. The available methodologies, manuals, computer programs and cther
planning, monitoring and programming instruments would be put into operation
at SEOPC and other agencies to gradually include all transportation mcdes in
the transport planning. In the process, staff would be trained in improving
transport policy formulation and investment analysis. In addition, technical
assistance and required equipment would be provided to improve SEOPC's
ability to collect basic data on road conditions, an essential input for.
meaningful planning.
Rural Roads
53.       Under the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan
1784-DO) SEOPC initiated a rural roads construction research and
demonstration program, which this project would continue to support. The
program tests different mixes of equipment and labor and carefully assesses
their relative costs and benefits. An evaluation study of the program is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1985. The proposed project includes
the construction of another 100 km of rural roads to be built under
supervision of the Directorate for Rural Roads using technologies consistent
with the findings of the evaluation study. Consequently, disbursements for



- 14 -
this project component would be made only if the results of the study and
evaluation show that the proposed construcl:ion system and methods are
cost-effective (para 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
54.       Total project cost is estimated at US$44.7 million equivalent.  The
proposed loan of US$35.8 million would finance 80 percent of the total
project cost, or 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and 35 percent of
local costs. The Government would finance the balance of US$8.9 million
equivalent or 20 percent of total project cost. This leveL of financing is
recommended on the basis that under the present economic situation and the
financial stabilization program, there is an acute shortage of local
currency; furthermore, any postponement or delay in the continuation of the
already initiated civil works because of lack of counterpart funds, will
increase the cost, not only because of inflation, but also because of
continuing deterioration of the works already begun.
55.        Cost estimates for road reconstruction works are based on exist:ing
contracts and recent field inspections of remaining works. Estimates for
maintenance equipment have been prepared by SEOPC on the basis of CIF Santo
Domingo quotations of manufacturers.  The cost of spare parts, workshop tools
and equipment have been based on a detailed costing of individual items
needed as determined through the repair and overhaul program of SEOPC. Costs
for technical assistance services totalling  165 man-months of consulting
services (para 46), of which 113 foreign and 52 locally provided, have been
assessed on the basis of terms of reference and detailed programming of
consultant deployment. Cost estimates for the rural road construction
program were based on the cost of the ongoiLng pilot programn and other rural
roads program. Price increases for foreign cost components are estimated at
5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for 1986, and 8 percent for 1987 and beyond.
For local costs the following anticipated price increases were used: 26.6
percent for 1985, 13 percent for 1986, 10 percent for 1987, 8 percent for
1988, and 7 percent for 1989 and 1990. Considering the detailed knowledge of
the civil works to be done and of the goods to be acquired, allowances for
physical contingencies were considered not necessary.
56.        In order to avoid delays resulting from shortage of local budgetary
support the Government would provide in its annual budget amounts in
Dominican pesos equivalent to US$1.33 mill:Lon for 1985, US$2.84 million for
1986, US$ 2.56 million for 1987, US$1.59 million for 1988 -and US$0.62 million
for 1989 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The initial deposit
of the equivalent of US$0.75 million in a P'roject Account to be established
at the Banco de Reservas would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
57.       As the proposed project would finance a road building program in
progress, started under Bank Loan 1784-DO (Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project) for which contracting using ICB according to Bank
guidelines was carried out, it is essentiaL to avoid interruption in project



- 15 -
implementation between the different financing phases. In order to allow a
linking of the proposed project to the road building program already under
implementation, retroactive financing would be included for up to US$2.5
million for expenditures incurred before loan signature but after November
30, 1984 (para 3(a) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
58.       The road reconstruction part of the project, including related
supervision services, would not require tendering as contracts have already
been concluded following Bank guidelines. The procurement of maintenance
equipment, vehicles, workshop tools and spare parts would be through ICB,
following Bank guidelines; exceptions to ICB would be considered only for
contracts involving less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of
US$250,000 equivalent. Similar items would be grouped for bidding purposes.
Bidding procedures, tender documents, contracts and proposed contract awards
would all be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. Works under
the rural roads component would be executed by force account and local labor,
with certain well defined complementary activities executed by contract and
with equipment. The limited value and the geographic dispersion of such
works would attract only small local contractors; SEOPC would invite bids
from contractors selected from a list of preregistered bidders on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures, which have been examined and found
to be satisfactory to the Bank. Local shopping would apply to renting of
equipment for rural road construction works carried out using force account,
if required. Consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed in accordance with Bank
guidelines (Schedule 4, Section II of the draft Loan Agreement). Annex IV
provides the details of procurement modalities.
59.       Disbursements of the loan funds would be fully documented using the
Bank's normal procedures, with the exception of expenditures for civil works
under the rural road component which would be disbursed against statements of
expenditures, documentation for which would be retained by SEOPC for ex-post
review during supervision missions. Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) 70 percent of expenditures for civil works, including rural roads; (b)
100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local expenditures for
equipment, spare parts and workshop tools; and (c) 100 percent of
expenditures for technical assistance, consulting services and training
costs.
Project Accounts
60.       To facilitate disbursement of loan funds, two separate accounts
would be opened. A Special Account to be established in the Central Bank of
the Dominican Republic in US Dollars, would be financed out of the proceeds
of the loan through an initial deposit and subsequent replenishments. The
Government would fund a Project Account, to be established in the Banco de
Reservas in Dominican Pesos. The initial deposits in each accotnt would be
equivalent to an average of four months of expenditures, or respectively
US$3.0 million and US$0.75 million equivalent. The initial deposit of



- 16 -
US$0.75 million equivalent in the Project Account would be a condition of
effectiveress of the loan (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Withdrawals from the Special Account would follow determination by the
Central Bank that funds, sufficient to cover the local portion of the
expenditure, are available in the Project Account, or that the counterpart
portion has already been paid out (para 2 of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
Audiing
61.       SEOPC would have all accounts, including the Special Account and
the Project Account, financial statements and statements of expenditures
relevant to the proposed project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors, with qualifications acceptable tc the Bank. Certified copies of
all relevant financial statements would be remitted to the Bank not later
than four months after closing of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(b) (ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       SEOPC's overall accounting and auditing procedures were recently
reviewed for strengthening its institutional and technical capabilities, and
new procedures are being implemented. For projects with external financing,
SEOPC has a special unit, directly responsible to the Secretary and which
centralizes accounting, prepares withdrawal applications, requests the
counterpart funds and makes the payments. This unit's accounting procedures
were reviewed and found to be adequate.
Project Justification and Benefits
63.       The project would continue the support of the road transportation
sector in the Dominican Republic, started in 1976. It would help reconstruct
roads critical for the transport of primary export commodities and widen
local markets. In addition, the development of a transport planning and
maintenance system would be carried further and the rural roads component
would develop least-cost standards for rural road improvement and
construction. It would also contribute directly to employment in the
outlying areas of the country and, in the long run, to Government efforts to
increase and diversify the country's production.
64.       The economic rate of return (ERR) on the investment required to
complete the ongoing road reconstruction program (65 percent of the total
project base cost) has been estimated to be 26 percent, including "sunk
costs" (investments already made in the road reconstruction program with no
alternative economic use), with ERR for individual roads ranging from 20
percent to 30 percent. Sensitivity tests, increasing total costs by 20
percent and lowering benefits by an equal portion, indicated that, in all
cases, the investment would remain justified. For spare parts, equipment and
technical assistance (20 percent of total project base cost), which
strengthen the maintenance efforts, a comparison of the average cost for
surface treatment (US$6,500/km) which would be made possible through the
proposed project, with average road reconstruction costs (US$150,000/km)
prove the very high return of investments in strengthening maintenance



- 17 -
capability. As regards the rural roads component (4 percent of total project
base cost) a methodology for economic evaluation has been agreed upon with
SEOPC and the selection of rural roads to be included in the prograni will be
made when the evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of alternative methods
will be completed (para 53).
Risks
65.       No significant risks are associated with the technical
implementation of the project. Engineering designs of roads to be
constructed have been satisfactorily revised and completed to reflect
technically feasible and most economic standards. Implementation delays may
occur due to occasional lack of counterpart funds in case the present tight
fiscal situation of Government continues to prevail. The establishmaent of a
Project Account, the requirement of the initial deposit as condition of
effectiveness, and an agreed schedule of counterpart funds for the years 1985
through 1989 would reduce this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank and the Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(ii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately.
Establishment of a Project Account in Dominican Pesos and depositing US$0.75
million equivalent in it would be a condition of effectiveness (para 60).
Disbursements for the rural road program would only be allowed if the
proposed construction techniques are shown to be cost effective (para 53).
67.             I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 26, 1985



- 18 -                                                ANNEX I
TABL-E                                             Page 1 of 5
DOHINICAN REP.           - SOCIAL INDIcATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICAN REP.                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEtGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                  (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
196oL0     197QtŽ    ESTIMATETh.    LAT. AMERICA i CAR                EUROPE
AREA (T>USAND SQ. DI)
TOTAL                                  48.7         48.7         48.7
AGRICULTURAL                           18.3         25.1         27.6
GCP PEI CAPITA (US$)                     250.0        420.0       1330.0               2108.6                   2345.3
ENERGY COISUTIOM PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         108.0        238.0       349.0                995.5                    1122.8
POPULATION AiD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      3047.0       4006.0      5744.0
URBAN POPULATION (7 OF TOTAL)          30.2         40.3         52.9                 66.5                     46.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULA1014 IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  8.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  14.9
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                             1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                          62.5         82.2       114.6                 35.7                     82.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              166.3        159.9       202.7                 92.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            47.8         49.0        43.9                 39.9                      31.6
15-64 YRS                            49.3         48.3        53.1                 56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                          2.9          2.7         2.7                  4.1                       7.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 3.6          2.7         3.0                   2.4                      1.6
URBAN                                 6.0          5.6         5.3                  3.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           48.6         43.7        33.5                  31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           17.0         12.1         7.8                   8.1                      8.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.6          3.2         2.2                   2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..        17.2        88.9 /c
USERS (X OF HARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..        42.0                 40.3
FOOD AID NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          98.0        100.0       104.0                114.3                     114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (E OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0        100.0       106.0                110.6                     128.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             47.0         49.0        52.0                 67.3                     89.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          25.0         27.0        21.0 /c              34.1                      34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            20.0         10.1          5.0                  5.7                      5.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          50.9         56.6        62.4                 64.7                      67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         119.5         90.0        64.5                 60.6                      54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                 8.1 /i      37.0        55.0 /d              65.4
URBAN                                22.9 71      72.0        88.0 7W              78.1
RURAL                                 1.4 /i      14.0        27.0 7W              46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        58.0        42.0 /d              52.9
URBAN                                  ..         63.0        74.0 /d              67.0
RURAL                                   ..        54.0         16.0 7              24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8220.0 /e   2070.0       2320.0 /f            1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                   ..      1920.0      2150.0 7i             815.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               400.0        340.0       370.0 /d             367.2                     326.3
URBAN                                  ..        220.0          ..                411.5                     201.5
RURAL                                   ..      2610.0           ..              2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        33.0 /h        ..                 27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                 5.0          5.2
URBAN                                 4.8          5.0
RURAL                                 5.1          5.3
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/POOM
TOTAL                                 2.0          1.5
URBAN                                 1.6          1.2
RURAL                                 2.2          1.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (t OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                20.0         36.8
URBAN                                57.7         76.3
RURAL                                 3.0         10.7
_ _- - - - - - - - - -_ _ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-__ _ - - - - --_ _ - - - - - - - - - - --__ _ _ - - - - --_ - --_ _ - - - - - - --__ _ - -_   _. .       _ _-_- _ - _- - _ _- _-_- - _- _ _ _ _ __-_- - _- _ .- _ - _- _ _- _- - _- _ _- _ - -_ -_ _ _ -



ANNEX I
-  19   - T A I L E  3                           Page  2  of  5
DOMINICAN REP.           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA BSEET
DOMINICAN RIP.                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE'RAGES) 
MOST                 (MOST RICENT ESTIMATE) lb
IRCSNT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDL  INCOME
12aL960    i970Lb     ES."SSTMATLLb   LAT. AMZRICA & CAR             EUROPE
IDCASSC3O 
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRILARY.   TOTAL                     98.0        95.0        109.0                105.4                    101.1
MALE                      99.0        95.0           ..                106.3                    105.5
PENAL!                    98.0        96.0           ..                104.5                     96.7
SICONDARYE  TOTAL                     7.0        20.0         41.0                 43.2                     59.1
YALE                       7.0        20.0           ..                 42.3                     68.9
PD4LE                      7.0        20.0           ..                 44.5                     50.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)            43.8          6.2         6.2                 33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TEACHER LATIO
PRIMARY                              58.0        55.0          59.0                30.1                     25.1
SECONDARY                            16.0        27.0                              16.8                     20.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                64.5         67.2        68.0                 79.5                     75.6
cONSuIOII
PASSENGER CARS/OUSAND POP               3.6          9.8        15.6                 46.0                     54.7
RADIO RlCEIVERS/HOUSAND POP            33.5         40.9        40.5                225.6                    164.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               3.2         25.0        70.9                107.2                    123.8
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              26.9        36.3         41.7 /d              63.5                     96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.7          1.2         1.4 /d               2.8                      2.9
LABOR  03R
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             854.0       1060.0      1601.0
FEMALE  (PERCENT)                    10.5         11.1        12.6                 23.2                     34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                66.5         61.2        49.0                 31.5                     40.7
1NDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   12.2        14.0         18.0                 23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.0        26.5         27.9                 32.2                     42.9
MALE                                 49.4        46.5         48.3                 49.3                     54.7
FEMALE                                6.0         5.9          7.1                 15.2                     31.0
tCONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8          2.0         1.7                  1.4                      0.9
210O43 DISTRIBUSlOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
HIGHEST 20S Of HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..        54.0 /*
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         6.3 7B
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..        14.5 j.
PORTY TARGET Gom
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       451.0 If             288.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       263.0 7              184.0
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       268.0 /f             522.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       186.07T              372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        43.0 /f
RURAL                                  ..           ..        43.0 71
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
The group averages for each indicator are population-wtighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depeude on availability of dat and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; ond data for 'Most Recent EFtimate' between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /A 1962; /f 1978; aL 1976; /h 1972; Ai Percent of housing units with piped water; /j 1979.
JUTNE, 1984



- 20 -                                                                            ANNEX I
DFNTO$OF SOCIALINCAM                                                                Page    3    of    5
Motto:  41 tboogf  ole  doeL    dmr frmIuoagcrll   ugd oh   0fatwtaiean   eibe*I   hudalch   oa    htte    ayrtb   teotoul
I=tprbl   onuOof rholoo  ofaoadiooa dafitrlt-n  and   nopausdbdiert   unrsinoiein th  dat.   Thedat   r,rshia                                                                 flt
do..o.tlb  oret  of oghoe   nlot              oa,ad                   -irttrisceti    aJor diffaranraI. heotrooo- io
Tho raIsc.gop  ae I                   aeOnuotr  group of the wobjoot racoary and (2) a coutry snop with .-.eh., higntr  overage  I-om   that  he country gru fthe
soylen t  ountry lacoyr for''Icogh Ito,.' 01  foporoar' group   here  Ilidla  incom   Northd4ficaIand.iddloth  a" ia.ohoar badsua  of..otng:ar to..-.uL-ura
affintftol ..  In rho rrf-r-  grop datatba an..agra are population  tightod alithmaoic osan  for tath ir.dtoootr ood eh,e  oslyi ohao major: y of aba rout.im                         i
ratarenot group..                                                                                                              d..  I                                ..    b
1    at100dans.                                                                            0ouaooflj,gfgy1nn-Pouano  divide   by oa Or  f practkirir
for  ropa   pooorsa, orhsoand  itohr god .n no on. 110   I.no   1960                   Suan    oo1tr
iOu,  1(71, and 1991 dai,                                                                        by at moatt ,iI.   L onel   I phy ioo . tehihot    rndo    rnial   utda
rIasry enrg  onaladlgie    erioe   oae    a   v  rydo-tnulerNaaiaWn,  urs,  idofe  so)thio   ffe  i-patientatoda  brdan
1960, 1970, sod 1991 neo.                                                                              urb19an hoaptonls..  InIusdnerinpo/ooa   budmpitaie--  , -lted rura
Poptla  Ioln   urlhsIa aPo'odnl  n    aoriioo                    dr.
dA freth denI int  nt oron ansatsy otnot ooparbbyllpof  arn                                        "101d
a9Mson    nnnn    16,97,an   91dt.                                                                   ora0in  nhunrld(en   a dtucholl -   eal  uban  a.ndiom
treat0111       urn   ouoitpno  ir   r   os   n18                                        n    bi   o   ati.,A hOfardni  onlode u  nrLtt          my,  roe hetolddi
onio   byaood                                                                       - n   hsI   ooiyadfrn100tedoebi  for  tati tina  p 'urpa "-s--o.J
T  nne  susn   lif  w            -o  d sno   A,brlIoteigit  nofnteyya parPfiiFIarnro   i                                           h.Lura     . sd rura,l cOn± ? t.ointyo...
utOigdcln :nf` tlb    0c dingtl)-Rll  to Onoowo leve pan  roan . cah                   dmi  t   lrei        dr  r  oato  dal          r b    oal   rbn  adrua
-o-bin..nos    9f60not9ity  ad O;sonlily,f Hrrsfrynsnivpoos.OfU                                          ooS    ubnIndrrldNG             og   w   otny
ohms rho bind  vaIn It or~~~1 .I ..nIt   -Joat  ..rots,  on . als .oh   o 9o 0           Id? lIth~.I..I.--
tnoslnttoaetwrIdnth   ol  of.1                    ths  rutY ntad  ohroer.naoyotoil                                        ppioun;nnwly  nlde    bidesedhI
fon-it   rt .to .tlto-ePn lOvlt.                                                          tn,nrfanth..mn...l nduaOfo tnhoiwentoafbncndIll pnnen
popoisrunt vltn  OTTbdhebFIbdl                                                       lsonndrl ooISnI IOton_i  mai  an   woe-Coordo   ben   sody
Ynoo..bT. oro _nalru       fllod-oaaodemoa trglcltllano                                               canarsl-I- iyeooludnd
only; 196, 1970 od 1981 fuo.                                                    incotonol enrlloene (oroant ofesovndaolP-.Ono1tonsi inettao tvn
poyaboion;`b I.h . .170  and 1991 d-wl .  h            ..g      -                                 yOfl-eoher0010    onear. od  aanfay L- Ovisim aaot   nudi
Pvoann b- ;Oruth  -u-n (nroont  f- trlli-  tunoul  Irnt  roJtosof  tolpd  nid                        pnOfatyt1ndab.ou da  lonela dOlinde  by rnbea ofneara
dn-ldpoyIuthvn   1960,I 1970,          f"          " andd 1901 deish..CloayiIOO1                                                                             t           I
Irdoheth go... -oetbooonl   dorul .do .h cn    nan  n   Idyu                                                     _tanerCr  lee AlnuI n  onvulrth. )- Pasenio  oar  onyotn ot
ynpoltrIIn 1911, 1070, sna1tlOt  Itt.,                                                              nmo  snorInghlean.tha  elhI  ysnlns  eoulodn  o.obuladlceo ,, hearses a
Rtio-unonagennunher nf      - doo hutaooe Ofdill..eon  n                     l itary onh,.ldeod.           if,                         ,      III
f-rtllityr..t.a; usolyP. ..I flo -yrraett   nig  n16,17,adbraceet   roa t                                                     uht  e  nluesnd of yulNtnn  rolDa o.Ity
euy-  lannin -. nuon Lote, Lu.o -1~ -ho Thondet-  hc.ua  rusboy nforpun                               ot   r  in effln .1.dt  fo ront   year  ocy nfotiha  1opohag une  Oa
of      Mir-oorl drceadrmaytso   mInlfo    planning    cfurS tm...                                           ilsd1 ianang
ol   ore   oono.en   u 6rop.                                                                couuoe _   ,oultio E I1 ro_lnoa  Fd-po           ft.la,1n) d trou
fOJO 0,01 I1'ft 01171                                                          ulrou~~~~~~~~~~~P-iotlrn.tl  or 'ull  genra  ...r.. rtey I,   viod  t     poldi
Iaetd  on  al bId 95Cr 60a 1oo 0u 70r prI   1e970to   109-it.190,  nd  ot
Yora.                                                                                            Lud1lof Ir-onCo-Y  ddd. Iy-,.                                     d't        .1
Ito  antot_yly  frlrretocr   f  eoronco-CsuedIo                                                     oo 1--Labo  roorI- bosada      i         ocilyarveproa                   th.uio  sowed
toyonl     f,so   dousoancn    ersyln   nnuonoelte,  ed,c0prio 1960,191970 aolof                                                 1991A dana.  'I
at hosehol  leve; i01-9f,  07ar190dn.ndlelil,                                                                      oston ted gas P  ccc Sonos  itIllbr  no;I90
oa  evlho    tnhd per  day    a  tpl  of ford it Onith- dafid-oe.,                               yarUKtoioarn,ltrCron)-na,    ltoOf l-ptciIo n
lrrirsecs  orel  onnlit  nlablen   by01P..iafr...  anonnaratuyao    snoo,ole,adfeaelbo   ora
alloosnosa of 60 gosOfd toe   rni   e   a   n   0goao   naitdrrtgO; of   th-al, wetOn  Orstie   oploio  ofal  tm   epOtiay
poespottl,o  oIo   1  ooo   10 I  h  eowlpreen.The                                             19-, 071  arc 190  d ta.         Psnaehtdo   isoftOs  n   ae
enladOrk       oe   bn  lt   f7   rw    fbrtpornad0'os5rfiIIie2somnuor   ftepplnon,odlr   ieted
nfenimalyooltloooun  oneroge fotlhaoorld,yrnpoenahl'ndointho                       foceoliacoostre  ftoonaoinoolnourdioee..,i~ .. (P.   hl~ll
derive   Onus 0 .10.1 o"Iolw   I900potdoy  1011-h,,17,                   od17
delo.                                                            Irilon lIlfnityrlOh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ChIl  uon  160cnoh  an  iorrouord-Onoul   ar    ro  lruano  1              ynroraeltouonlroenboh  I  leh  nO6m -  ococo   h  ollrld
.afoy-  y   .....tcAtllne     lnhoatgoa;frowdocla...p,.                                     Lrcn        Orheat; 20 t fonor   -ooret y_pencrnr,atdyOrno-b 40Jsnnro
'Lif   orrnytBr    yno    avtonsr   fyuso   iersiru!TTIogw   tos-et urn corp                                                               OI -yroot TV  ao   ot, pborrd  lont,to
onli11     161b97bnd191  ao.obud  nIderrnP     0boveinahnT,tin
footof  in  to  bouondlIn  birh;   061  090 ad 060_ora                                         b        ..at  tovtn  inlo . o..i.  101.noe  tol.ho   aic ,,nlo
"otoIrr IOppy   icldocIu  o   ofoory    rarttdbllnotdOllo   oolcIco   ee   lIorbls    - OrInan   an
00 char frao pronocrod bcre~~~~~    ~~laled   P---ge  an          os   enle oryIco   oelI   v-br    faronpccpt
fob      bosa ty h  coolacod  0 bent  filin raonahlaccws o  olo                      la-oued  ..lnl-.trln oeciuedrcdr r ycoa,Levl Icoct-- l--rbo
bos.  Id ruolreocesoohtb crsiOi lyyththeounferad ilrurol.                                                            i  it recceno  of yolunion (urba   'rLuc.    h  oenbo
tnnbrvonbtloavl haoonrbmt. iosnnoiuroalinatoro                                             Siepoor.             ~i.                      --      .
nh  dyf   n  o dh.    nut coolly' ARclr_,hosotdsd,,igth   t.,
uccraononocyoro Otnoosol (yerctnl or corolotion) - toral, orber. ovA~~~Y                                              l.l.diI
nata  - oohr o  peyle  octl,  rlo, ad roollerond   yvoret
Itaynaul os poocronocet of tlolfreopscloce ropoltllone.  Rotters diuposol ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~      ~      ~      O
OOylncod  Ir  coirn in oa  ieyool,  illor  OiooIIrtlorn,of                                                                     conel  en 970o   Oso ldiio
rontccanadroooc   Ioat-brnotns   orlunoyt9cnm6nooto,rnrnlnhyran
pnlnleoonOouulluo lnonobbtlloco ,                                                                                               Icy 1783~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 21 -
ANNEX I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC -  ECONOMIC DATA                      Page 4 of 5
GNP per capIta, 1983: US$S,380 a/
Area: 48.5 km2
Populatlion: 5.9 ml i Ion (mid-1983)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984 b/                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% In constant prices)
USS Mi lion      %                     1960-75        1970-75         1975-84
GDP at Market Prices                  5,482.9    100.0                      6.1            9.2             3.6
Gross Domestic Investment             1,124.0      20.5                    13.4           17.6             5.5
Gross National Savings                  888.2      16.2                     4.7           16.0            -0.2
Current Account Balance                -226.3      -4.1                     -              -                -
Export of Goods, NFS                  1,390.9      25.4                     3.5           11.1             1.0
Import of Goods, NFS                  1,554.5     28.4                      4.37          12.5            -1.4
OUTPUT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
(constant 1970 prices)
Value Added
USS Million         S
Agriculture, Livestock,
Forestry and Fishing                   549.5      17.1
Mining                                  135.1       4.2
Industry                                844.4     26.3
Services                              1,682.5      52.4
Total                         3,211.5    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                    Central Government
DR$ Mllion c/    % of GDP            DRS MIllion         S of GOP
1984       1975    1984                 1984         1975    1984
Current Receipts                      1,261.4      21.6       11.5             1,103.9        18.2    10.1
Current Expenditures                  1,129.9       8.5       10.3             1,296.9        8.0    11.8
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-1       131.5      13.1       0.1              -199.3         10.2    -1.8
Capital Expenditures                    353.4      11.6       3.2                260.6        9.1      2.4
External Assistance (net)                --         --        --                 139.7        0.3      1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970     1979          1980          1981         1982         1583        1984
(DR$ mllion outstanding end of period)
Money and Quasi-Money                             283.7   1,653.1       1,803.0       2,064.3      2,353.0       2,i52.2     2,388.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      213.1     552.8         652.8         995.6      1,379.2       1,694.6      1,824.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     174.9     893.1       1,044.5       1,019.9      1,113.5       1,258.6     1,412.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as t of GDP                  19.1      29.9          27.1          27.3         29.4          25.8         21.8
Consumer Price Index (Base 1976-77= 100)           57.0      116.9        136.3         146.8        158.0         168.9        208.4
Consumer Price Index in
Annual Percentage Changes                       3.8       9.2          16.6           7.7          7.6     .    6.9         23.4
Bank Credit to Pubilc Sector as of % of GDP        14.3      10.0           9.8          13.2         17.2          19.4         16.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector as of S of GDP    11.8          16.2          15.7         13.5         13.9          14.4         12.9
a!  IBRD World Atlas.
b/ All figures for 1984 are based on an exchange rate of DRS2 to US$1, representing the average of the multiple exchange rate system.
Since the IBRD World Atlas, for 1983, uses the officlal exchange rate of DRS1 to RSS1, the figures are not comparaible.
c/  Estimated.



AM12EX I
Page S of 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - TRADE PAYMENTS ANO CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-84)
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982       1983    1984                                              USS Million   J
USS Million
Sugar (raw)                              290.3          33.1
Export of Goods, NFS             840.4    917.9      828.0  1,134.9  1,271.3  1,512.6  1,141.8   1,229.8  1,390.9  Coffee (unprocessed)                          86.2           9.8
Import of Goods, NFS          1,005.0  1,109.1   1,154.0  1,484.3  1,918.7  1,818.4  1,534.6   1,568.8  1,554.5  Cocoa (raw)                                     62.6           7.1
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -164.6   -191.2    -326.0   -349.4   -647.4   -305.8   -392.8    -339.0   -165.6  Tobacco (leaf)                                   42.7           4.9
Ferronickel                               87.3          10.0
Net Factor Income               -123.8   -123.4    -135.7   -187.7   -210.2   -293.1   -254.1    -297.1   -330.0  Dore                                          161.9          18.5
Net Transfers                     46.5     50.1      149.8    205.8    187.8    193.0    205.0        215.0    267.3  Other                                     146.7          16.7
Current Account Balance         -241.9   -264.5    -311.9   -331.3   -669.8   -405.9   -441.9    -421.1   -226.3           Total                                877.7         100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 30, 1984              USS Million
Direct Foreign investment         60.0     45.9       39.6    -13.4      62.7      79.7     -1.4       22.0     68.5
Net MLT Borrowing                 93.3    104.3       97.7    210.7    252.7    153.6    192.8         24.1      16.0  Public Debt Including guaranteed private    2,354.3
Disbursements               (131.3)  (150.5)   (192.7)  (361.7)  (382.2)  (320.2)  (355.8)   (248.7)  (305.8) Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                            200.0a/
Amortization                  (38.0)   (46.2)    (95.0)  (151.0)  (129.5)  (166.6)  (163.0)   (224.6)  (289.8) Total Outstanding and Disbursed                     2,554.3x9/
Other Items, n.e.l.               45.4    185.5       79.5      46.5    236.6      21.7    -60.1       22.3    -13.1  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984
Change In Net Reserves
= Increase)                 43.2    -71.2       95.1      87.5    117.8    150.9    310.6       352.7    154.7  Public Debt, Including uuaranteedc/                 32=3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                        2.9
Gross Reserves                   165.0    224.0      199.3    339.1    402.5    555.8    156.3        195.1    268.0  Total Outstanding and Dlsbursedd/                   35.2
Net Reserves                     -11.0     60.2      -34.9   -122.4   -240.2   -391.1   -616.1    -408.9   -335.9e/
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                      170.0    176.7       199.0    314.9    448.8    497.4    449.5       461.1    506.9  IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1984)           US$ Million
Exports                        --        --         --       --        --       --        --         --       --
Outstanding and Disbursed                        172.0
Undisbursed                                      104.6
Outstanding including undisbursed                276.6
a/  Estimate
b/  Includes arrears on MLTD, but does not Include short-term liabilities of Central Bank.
c/  Medium- and long-term only.                                                                                                                                                       un
d/  Does not Include short-term debt or Central Bank liabilitles.
e/  As of December 31, 1984.



- 23 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:
A.      STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as March 31, 1985)a/
Loan or
Credit                                                      US$ million
Number    Year   Borrower              Purpose       Amount (Less cancellation)
Bank    IDA      Undis.
Seven loans and three credits fully disbursed         113.8   22.1b/    -
1655-DO   1979   Dominican Republic  Irrigation II  27.0                 16.6
1699-DO   1979   Central Bank          Tourism II      25.0              10.1
1760-DO   1979   State Sugar Council Sugar Rehab.   35.0                 31.3
1784-DO   1980   Dominican Republic  Highways II    35.0                  0.5
2023-DO   1981   Dominican Republic  Coffee and
Cocoa Rehab.   24.0              17.1
2104-DO   1982   Dominican Republic  Sites and
Services        25.4             22.2
2292-DO   1983   Dominican Republic  Sto. Domingo         -                -
Municipalityc!
2369-DO   1983   Dominican Republic  Itabo
Engineering      3.8              1.7
Total                               289.0   22.1
of which has been repaid            35.3    0.5
Total now outstanding               253.7   21.6
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA    253.7   21.6a/
Total Undisbursed                                      99.5
a/ Does not include a loan of US$5.8 million for a Vocational Training
Project, approved on May 28, 1985 (85-77)
b/ With exchange adjustment.
c/  Cancelled July 13, 1984.



- 24 -
TEXTNAME: ANNEXII (R)P: 02
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B.       STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                   Type of      Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                  Business      Loan  Equity    Total
1971    Cementos Nacionales., S.A.    Construction
Material       6.0   1.7        7.7
1978    Financiera Empresarial, S.A  Industrial
Credit        3.0   -           3.0 a/
1983    Productora Nacional de
Algodon.                      Cotton
Cultivation   4.0   1.0         5.0
1984    Compania Dominicana de         Money and
Leasing, S.A.                Capital
Market         3.0   0.2        3.2
Total Gross Commitments                     16.0   2.9       18.9
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                              7.4   -          7.4
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                    8.6   2.9       11.5
Total Undisbursed including
Participants Portion                         4.9   0.3        5.2
a/ Cancelled



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIMD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation
Request of Government Received            November 1982
Project Prepared by Government
and Bank                                  May-August 1983
Appraisal Mission Departure               October 1983
Post-Appraisal and Updating               February and
Mission                                   November 1984
(b)  Negotiations Completed:                   May 31, 1.985
(c)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:               February 1986
II.     Special Conditions
1. Condition of Loan Effectiveness:
That the Government will have deposited the equivalent of
US$0.75 million in the Project Account to be opened at the Banco
de Reservas (para 60).
2. Condition of Disbursement
Satisfactory review of the study demonstrating the
cost-effectiveness of the techniques to be used in the rural road
construction program would be a condition of disbursement against
this component (para 53);
3. Other Conditions
(a) By June 30 of each year SEOPC would present, for Bank
comment, its road maintenance program for the following year
(para 51);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  The Government would provide necessary funds to carry out
the project in its annual budget according to an agreed
schedule (para 56);
(c) SEOPC would maintain a Specia:L Account in US$ and a Project
Account in DR$ (para 60); and
(d) Withdrawal from the Special Account would follow
determination by the Central Bank that funds, sufficient to
cover the local portion of the expenditure, are available in
the Project Account, or that the counterpart portion has
already been paid out (para 60).



- 27 -                     ANNEX IV
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
METHODS OF PROCUREMENT BY PROJECT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
TOTAL
Project Category                        ICB    LCB  OTHER      N/A       COSTS
A. Civil Works
(i)   Road Reconstruction             -     -      1.5      27.3a/      28.8
-     -    (1.1)    (19.67       (20.7)
(ii)  Rural Road Improvement          -     1.8   -         -            1.8
-    (:1.3)  -                    (1.3)
B.  Procurement of Goods
(i)   Maintenance Equipment           3.5   -      0.1      -            3.6
(3.5)  -    (-)        -           (3.5)
(ii)  Workshop Equipment,             4.8   -     0.2       -            5.0
Spare Parts and Tools         (4.8)  -    (-)         -           (4.8)
C. Consulting Services
(i)   Supervision of Road             -     -      -        1.6          1.6
Reconstruction                 -      -     -        (1.6)        (1.6)
(ii)  Technical Assistance
for Transport Planning
and Paving Techniques              -        3.0       -            3.0
-     -    (3.0)      -           (3.0)
(iii) Technical Assistance for
Maintenance Operations
and Training                    -     -     0.9       -            0.9
-     -    (0.9)      -           (0.9)
8.3   1.8   5.7      28.9         44.7
Totalb/                        (8.3) (1.3) (5.0)   (21.2)         35.8)
a/ All civil works contracts have already been awarded and are underway.
b/ Including contingencies.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Loan.



;:



7-  .                                                       7 1' n  .                                                   '                                                                                               I B R D  7 9I32 R
71'                 71.                                                       j                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1984
C,/C 0I M::E So          -AHAMAS
4S       i;S         OU[    e    C    q    .    !   .;   ;':   o  .  , ,1 7
I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_   \    >      ~~~',bI,,, L-rg.t    ~          ,s           s E B,,.on                                                                                                                 f   A f    9.. tei.   
F-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-x      77~o~     j{                  MARL z, rEa 
aP0;A,    1 .                                        L . 11 
(~~~~~~~~~4g ~ ~   ~           ~           ~          ~           A-
74 p                                                                                                                                            7770 RMAA Bect votias
I9    ~             <3 r e A               I      El  Eoo                                                                                              Fmrgnc  Roadv  ReconM dt,n PoiCrt                                         19
P,                                                                                                                                                                       6 A  Ddl  /   ' I  _  _ 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                              70   277   30   40   50                         *      AŽrpo('s                                                  77e, S an7,700',,e7,vK.V or
-   -      o.dnWJI                                                    I L                                  '7 I                                                              e e
u  ,1                                                                                                                 R y6rsvr m rr ddesnd
.    X                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial Boz,cdor,es  cnfr II7 mp do no1711,77cn 1,17
/,- - It ntoa  Baurd, E'S                                                                                                                                                     Teha£ove-Ae 10C 717rd00
T.7P2                                                                                                                                                                                 EL SEIE                       El M.-n67770P,



I 



