                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003117



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA- H6170)

                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
                       (US$15.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
              IN PILOT CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW RESOURCES

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                    FOR AN

                       EMERGENCY ENERGY PROJECT



                                August 28, 2014



Global Practice Energy and Extractives
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 29, 2014)
                     Currency Unit = Burundi franc (FBu)
                      FBu1548.00 = US$1
                            US$1 = SDR 0.648984


                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ABER    Agence burundaise d’électrification rurale (Rural electrification agency of
        Burundi)
AfDB    African Development Bank
ARAP    Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lights
CRW     Crisis Response Window
DO      Development Objectives
EEP     Emergency Electricity Project
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENEFP   Energy Efficiency Project
ESIA    Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
ESMP    Environment and Social Management Plan
EU      European Union
FBu     Franc Burundais (Burundi Franc)
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Management Report
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GIZ     Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German International
        Technical Cooperation)
GoB     Government of Burundi
GWh     Gigawatt hour
HFO     Heavy Fuel Oil
HV      High Voltage
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFR     Interim Financial Report
IMF     International Monetary Fund
                                     ii
IP         Implementation Progress
ISN        Interim Strategy Note
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
kV         KiloVolt
MBT        Mechanical Biological Treatment
MIS        Management Information System
MSWEIP     Multi Sectoral Water and Electricity Infrastructure Project
MTR        Mid-Term Review
MV         Medium Voltage
MVA        Megavoltampere
MW         Megawatt
MWEM       Ministry of Water, Energy and Mines
NPV        Net Present Value
NRW        Non-Revenue Water
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
O.P.       Operation Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
REGIDESO   Régie de Production et Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité (Public Water
           and Electricity Utility Company)
RPM        Regional Procurement Management
rpm        Rotation per minute
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SE4All     Sustainable Energy for All
SINELAC    Joint international entity for electricity generation (Burundi, DRC and
           Rwanda)
SME        Small and Medium size Enterprises
SNEL       Société Nationale d’Electricité (National Power Utility in the Democratic
           Republic of Congo)
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
T&D        Transmission and Distribution
WB         World Bank


                             Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                           Country Director Philippe Dongier
                            Senior Director: Anita Marangoly George
                          Practice Manager: Lucio Monari
                      Project Team Leader: Vonjy Rakotondramanana
                         ICR Team Leader: Vonjy Rakotondramanana




                                        iii
                                      REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
                                     The Emergency Energy Project
                                            CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information..................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. v
C. Ratings Summary..................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................ vi
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................ vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................. ix
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
MAP (IBRD33380)....................................................................................................... 46




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Burundi - Emergency
Country:                Burundi                  Project Name:             Energy Project from
                                                                           IDA CRW
Project ID:             P122217                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H6170
ICR Date:               08/28/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           BURUNDI
Original Total
                        XDR 10.20M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 9.97M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.01M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: REGIDESO (Public Water and Electricity Utility Company)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/26/2010     Effectiveness:           03/01/2011          02/23/2011
Appraisal:            06/24/2010     Restructuring(s):           None                 None
Approval:             09/30/2010     Mid-term Review:         03/31/2013          05/03/2013
                                     Closing:                 01/31/2014          01/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Hydropower                                                            21                  23
Oil and gas                                                           17                  27
Public administration- Energy and mining                               8                   2
Thermal Power Generation                                              34                  32
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                          20                  16


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                90                  80
Rural services and infrastructure                                     10                  10
Urban services and housing for the poor                                                   10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Philippe Dongier                     John McIntire
Practice Manager:          Lucio Monari                         Subramaniam V. Iyer
                           Vonjy Miarintsoa                     Erik Fernstrom
Project Team Leader:
                           Rakotondramanana
ICR Team Leader:           Vonjy Miarintsoa Rakotondramanana
ICR Primary Author:        M. Ananda Covindassamy




                                                vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective (PDO) was to improve the capacity and reliability of
electricity generation, transmission, and distribution.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                   Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                   Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                   approval              Target           Completion or
                                   documents)            Values           Target Years
Indicator 1: Average unplanned interruptions frequency in Bujumbura (number/year).
Value
quantitative or          51                    30          N/A                     46
Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009          06/30/2013                            12/31/2013
                Partially achieved. The measured frequency of interruption is calculated
                for the entire system, and it is not possible to distinguish between
Comments
                interruptions due to lack of capacity (which was to be improved through
(incl. %
                the project) and other factors related to the T&D system: the frequency of
achievement)
                interruption was also affected by failures in the transmission and
                distribution network, which was not covered by the project.
               Increased electricity generation from the Bujumbura thermal power plant
Indicator 2: (GWh/year)
Value
quantitative or           6                    25              N/A              20.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009           12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                Target achieved 81.2%.
                The target refers to total thermal generation in Bujumbura only. Thermal
Comments
                generation in Bujumbura reflects the hours of utilization of the new power
(incl. %
                plant compared to the generation plan developed during appraisal, due to
achievement)
                late commissioning of the new thermal capacity in 2013.

Indicator 3: Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (%).
Value
                    270,000               318,000                         456, 552
quantitative or                                               N/A
                      50%                   50%                             50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009           12/31/2013                       12/31/2013
Comments        143% achievement. The number of clients connected has increased more

                                             vii
(incl. %     than anticipated. The number of connections per year was 3,000 to 4,700
achievement) per year at appraisal but it was increased to 9,000 by 2013. Moreover, the
             average size of household was underestimated and has been revised in line
             with the most recent Households’ Survey dated 2010.
             Female percentage of Beneficiaries: achievement 100%. The achievement
             of the proportion of female beneficiaries is 100%, but the achievement in
             terms of gross number of female beneficiaries is 143%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                        Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
Indicator     Baseline Value
                                        approval          Target        Completion or
                                        documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Generation capacity of conventional generation constructed (MW).
Value
(quantitative
                          5.5                   10.5           N/A             21.9
or
qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009             12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
              200% achievement. The high level of achievement is due to the
Comments      implementation of the project, and also to the installation of 10MW of
(incl. %      rented thermal capacity. Excluding the unanticipated rental of 10 MW of
achievement) capacity, this indicator is 113% achieved, as the effective capacity
              installed is 6.4MW compared to 5MW at appraisal.
Indicator 2 : Generation capacity of renewable energy rehabilitated (MW)
Value
(quantitative
                           0                     20            N/A              20
or
qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009             12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
              100% achievement. The available hydro capacity is 20MW, in line with
              the objective. However, this performance was achieved thanks to the
Comments
              unanticipated mobilization of additional financing from the Netherlands to
(incl. %
              complement the IDA financing, after it was found that IDA financing was
achievement)
              insufficient to complete the rehabilitation as planned, and could finance
              only first priority rehabilitations.
Indicator 3 : MV and HV-substations rehabilitated (number)
Value
(quantitative
                           0                      1            N/A               1
or
qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009             12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
Comments
              100% achievement.
(incl. %

                                          viii
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Pre-payment electricity meters installed by REGIDESO (number).
Value
(quantitative
                        10,000               43,000           N/A           44,321
or
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009            12/31/2013                    12/31/2013
Comments        102% achievement. Additional 15,000 pre-payment meters were acquired
(incl. %        under the project. Some 7,650 meters had been installed as of December,
achievement)    2013; the rest are scheduled to be installed in 2014.
Indicator 5 :   Electricity collection rate (%)
Value
(quantitative
                         64%                  85%             N/A            81.7%
or
qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009             12/31/2013                    12/31/2013
Comments      96% achievement. Impact of installation of prepayment meters was not
(incl. %      fully felt in 2013, as a large number of pre-payment meters were delivered
achievement)  but not installed.
              Increased availability of power supply from extended Bujumbura thermal
Indicator 6 :
              power plant (hours/week)
Value
(quantitative
                           0                    56            N/A             140
or
qualitative)
Date achieved        12/31/2009             12/31/2013                    12/31/2013
              250% achievement. The utilization of the new plant has been higher than
Comments
              anticipated to reduce capacity shortages, and the number of hours/weeks
(incl. %
              has been boosted by recourse to more hours of production from the
achievement)
              thermal plant during the rehabilitation of Rwegura hydro plant.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                     IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    03/24/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/01/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.23
  3    06/30/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     4.24
  4    02/22/2013     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              7.49
  5    07/10/2013     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              8.98
  6    02/11/2014     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            14.08

H. Restructuring (if any)
The project was not restructured.
                                            ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
F




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country context

1.     At the time of project appraisal the country had emerged from 12 years of conflict,
ending in 2004, after claiming the lives of about 300,000 people. Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) per capita had fallen from US$180 in 1993 to US$83 in 2004. The war and the
economic decline took a heavy toll on the country’s infrastructure, which was either
destroyed or seriously deteriorated. It particularly affected water and electricity facilities.

2.      Since 2004 Burundi has made good progress in establishing a relatively stable
macroeconomic environment, rebuilding institutions, and consolidating peace and security.
Over the following decade, the Government’s economic and financial programs aimed to
consolidate economic and political gains, promote inclusive economic growth, contain
inflation, and strengthen policies designed to combat endemic poverty in rural and urban
areas.

3.     GDP per capita is US$164 and GDP is estimated to have grown at 4.4 percent in 2013
and 4.6 percent in 2014. Implementation of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
World Bank (WB) supported economic program opened the way for Burundi to reach the
Highly Indebted Poor Countries decision point in August 2005 and to receive a total of
approximately US$826 million in debt relief.

Sector context

4.      Electricity Sector. During the years of conflict, sector infrastructure, particularly the
distribution system, was severely damaged, maintenance was not carried out resulting in
damage to the generation units and financial discipline was eroded. The electricity access
rate in connected areas halved as the urban population doubled. By the end of the conflict,
less than two percent of the country’s households had electricity in their homes. Since the end
of the conflict, the Government of Burundi (GoB) and the public water and electricity utility
company REGIDESO (Régie de Production et Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité) had made
efforts to restore access to electricity for households who had lost access during the conflict. 1
Generation capacity was limited with a total capacity of only 30.6 MW produced by seven
hydroelectric plants operated by REGIDESO. At the time of project appraisal, Burundi was
facing a major electricity sector crisis which was due to the following two main factors:

    (i) the increase in electricity demand as a result of the return of refugees and investments
    in capital area has rapidly exhausted the country’s limited available and decreasing power
    supply capacity; and

    (ii) the country’s electricity transmission and distribution system was dilapidated due to
    destruction and lack of investments during the past 13 years of civil war.


1
 To date, the GoB has succeeded in bringing the access rate to the pre-conflict level of four percent, although
much more is needed to complete the rehabilitation of the distribution system.


                                                        1
The evidence of the crisis was the level of unserved demand in excess of 40 percent and
growing and the increasingly frequent failure of the hydro plants due to damage caused by
years of inadequate maintenance, bringing the sector to the verge of collapse. To address the
electricity sector crisis, the GoB needed to implement urgent and comprehensive actions.

5.     Electricity demand far outstripped supply, resulting in regular load shedding. As
demand was growing, a substantial supply deficit was expected, to reach at least 22MW by
2014 (corresponding to 73 percent unserved demand). To supplement the supply from
hydropower, REGIDESO owned a 5.5MW diesel power plant. However, the diesel plant was
not running due to its high operating cost and lack of spare parts. The quality of service and
operations was insufficient, with high technical and non-technical loses accounting for an
estimated 24.4 percent of total power generation. With the rehabilitation of the existing 5.5
MW thermal plant and the two hydro plants, and installation of an additional 5MW of
thermal capacity under the project, the shortage was projected to be reduced to 30 percent.

6.      Management and Institutional Issues. The main institutions in the electricity sector
were the Ministry of Water, Energy and Mines (MWEM); REGIDESO the national public-
owned electricity and water production and distribution company and the Rural
Electrification Agency of Burundi (ABER). The Ministry’s mandate was development of
sector policy, sector planning, and supervision of seven state enterprises including
REGIDESO and ABER. The Ministry, following years of isolation and lack of resources
including for human resources development, had a very limited capacity in the areas of
planning, supervision of public sector entities, policy formulation and regulation.
REGIDESO was a quasi-monopoly, although the law governing the sector does not confer on
it monopoly rights. The Director General of REGIDESO and the company directors were
appointed by the President of the Republic. Overall, REGIDESO had a limited management
team, a very weak management system, part of which has collapsed due to lack of updates
during the conflict years; its main weaknesses were with financial reporting, maintenance
planning and implementation and governance.

7.      REGIDESO had an extremely weak financial position; it was highly indebted and
technically bankrupt. On the positive side, the utility’s net income was improving, due to the
decline of energy prices charged by SINELAC (a joint venture between Burundi, Rwanda
and the Democratic Republic of Congo to develop and operate the Ruzizi II hydro plant) and
increase of electricity tariffs by 27 percent in April 2007. Nevertheless, the tariff level and
structure remained inadequate to address issues of financial viability, sustainability, and
social equity.

Government strategy

8.     Burundi’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of September 2006 had four
axes: (i) improving governance and security; (ii) promoting sustainable and equitable
economic growth; (iii) developing human capital; and (iv) combating HIV/AIDS. The
absence of the most basic services such as water supply and electricity was identified as a
major threat to the consolidation of peace that needed to be addressed.




                                              2
Government power sector strategy for recovery

9.      The GoB’s power sector strategy in the short to medium term consisted of: (i)
increasing thermal (petroleum based) electricity generation capacity to stem the immediate
and growing supply deficit; (ii) developing national hydro power resources as well as other
renewable energy resources to replace thermal base load power production in 3-4 years; (iii)
completing the rehabilitation of the national power grid and distribution services so badly
damaged during the conflict to create a base for sustainable electricity access expansion; and
(iv) strengthening REGIDESO’s financial and operational performance by introducing cost
reflective tariffs, debt restructuring, performance based management and technical assistance
particularly for commercial operations, including the introduction of prepayment meters to
reduce losses and address the billing and collection issue.

Rationale for involvement of the World Bank

10.      The post-conflict completion of the rehabilitation of the power system could not be
financed from REGIDESO’s own resources and was expected to be partly financed by GoB
from its budgetary resources. However, for Burundi, the global economic crisis led to lower
expected growth in 2009 and a reduction of domestic tax and non-tax revenues as a
percentage of GDP -by approximately 8 percent for 2009 and 2010 (WB/IMF estimates).
The drop in Government revenue due to the global economic crises stretched Government’s
limited budgetary resources. Due to other pressing priorities, the GoB could no longer
envisage supporting REGIDESO to implement emergency measures to prevent the collapse
of very fragile power system. The Emergency Electricity Project (EEP) financing aimed,
despite this revenue shortfall, to: (i) assist the GoB to maintain core development spending on
electricity; and (ii) address the threat of interruption of power supply and consequent impact
on poverty and employment, social services such as the grid connected health and education
facilities, particularly in the Bujumbura region. The EEP was designed to quickly address,
over a period of about 36 months, some of the main risks of power system failure and lack of
supply. It therefore met the objective of IDA Crisis Response Window (CRW), approved by
the World Bank’s Board of Directors on December 10, 2009, which aimed to assist countries
in developing, implementing and monitoring programs to manage the poverty, social, and
economic impact of the global economic crisis and to provide financial assistance to protect
core spending on health, education, social safety nets, infrastructure, and agriculture. The
IDA CRW fully financed this emergency operation with grant resources.

11.     The World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board
of Directors in August, 2008, presented a medium-term vision of sustainable development by
assisting Burundi’s transition from a post-conflict economy to a developing country. The
CAS provided the framework for World Bank Group support from FY 2009 through FY 2012
and focused on two strategic objectives: (i) promote sustainable and broad-based economic
growth; and (ii) improve access to social services and consolidate social stability.
Governance was a crosscutting CAS objective. Electricity services played a crucial role in
accelerating industrial and commercial activity and hence contributed to the country's
economic growth and job creation, as a key factor of social stability. The EEP contributed to
both CAS objectives by improving access to reliable electricity services, which had been
identified as core requirements to achieve sustained higher growth performance and to restore
essential basic services, such as water supply, health and public services. These goals were
aligned with those of the PRSP, which aims to promote sustainable economic growth and to
develop human capital. Provision of an adequate electricity supply at competitive prices was

                                              3
also considered as one of the core pillars of increased and participatory growth identified in
the 2009 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM).

12.      The Bank was well positioned to support the project strategy of financing high-impact
activities to address urgent unmet needs with quick return on investment for the utility, while
providing planning and policy assistance in the longer term. The Bank’s involvement was
fully justified by its regional experience in supporting reforming of public utilities and in
implementation of performance contracts, which the Bank had successfully supported
elsewhere in the Africa Region. The Bank also had the unique advantage of having already a
presence in, and knowledge of, the power sector through on-going projects as well as a
reliable structure for project implementation, including a project implementation unit (PIU),
which could be mobilized without delay for implementing an emergency operation.

13.     The Bank provided sustained support to the sector to help the GoB addressing the
short, medium and long terms issues. The first intervention of the Bank in the power sector,
after the end of the country crisis, was through the MSWEIP which aimed at rehabilitating
water and electricity infrastructures. As far as electricity is concerned, the MSWEIP mainly
financed the setting in place and the monitoring of the performance contract between
REGIDESO and the GoB; the rehabilitation of networks; key studies such as prefeasibility
studies of potential hydro sites and tariff study necessary for the development of the sector in
the medium and long terms; and the installation of prepaid meters to improve the collection
rate. Then, the EEP was established in an emergency basis (i) to respond to the urgent need
to install additional thermal capacity and to rehabilitate existing hydro plants which were not
covered under the MSWEIP in order to reduce power outages due to the limited capacity
which was not able to satisfy the fast growing demand; and (ii) to continue the effort on the
rehabilitation of networks to increase the reliability of the system. To increase the capacity
and to reduce the cost in the medium term, the Jiji & Mulembwe project approved by the
Board in April 2014 finances the construction of new hydro capacity of about 50MW. The
two sites emerged from the results of studies conducted under the MSWEIP. The
Jiji&Mulembwe project also includes TA activities to improve the management of
REGIDESO.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

14.    The PDO was to: improve the capacity and reliability of electricity generation,
transmission and distribution. The key indicators were:

 (a)   Average unplanned interruptions frequency in Bujumbura (number/year);
 (b)   Increased electricity generation from the Bujumbura thermal power plant (GWh/year).

15.     The formulation of the PDO and the key indicators was very broad. Their
achievement was not linked mainly to the implementation of the project, but involved a
number of other factors such as the implementation of least cost generation projects, the
rehabilitation and strengthening of the distribution network, the sustainability of the
rehabilitations, construction of new plants, and installation of pre-payment meters. The
project components, however, did contribute to achieving the PDO, so there was no
disconnect between the PDO and the content of the project.




                                               4
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification

16.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised. During the MTR, it was noted that the
PDO was very broad, but as there was nevertheless a clear linkage between the EEP
components and the PDO, the conclusion was that the PDO did not need to be revised.
Therefore, a restructuring of the project was not warranted considering that the project
content was still relevant and the implementation and disbursements were progressing,
despite the fact that the project experienced delays.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

17.    The main direct beneficiaries were people already connected to the REGIDESO
power system in Bujumbura, who were all subject to recurrent power cuts under
REGIDESO’s load shedding program. REGIDESO had about 42,000 clients in 2010,
providing electricity services to about 270,000 persons, of which 80 percent lived in
Bujumbura and Bujumbura peri-urban area. By the time of Project completion, in January
2014, the number of persons who benefitted from improved electricity supply was increased
by about 456,000, although the quality of supply was still wanting, with 36 percent of the
demand unserved and frequent power interruptions.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

18.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presents a full program of activities to be
implemented on World Bank financing. The cost table in Annex 3 of the PAD presents the
cost of the project by component, for a total of US$15.4 million equivalent.

19.    Component 1: Extension of the Bujumbura Thermal Generation Plant (US$5 million)
This component focused on stemming the short term supply deficit while lower cost hydro
power resources were being developed through:

 (a) the procurement and installation of an additional 5MW of thermal generating capacity
 to the existing diesel-fueled 5.5MW Bujumbura thermal power plant, thus leading to a total
 power plant capacity of 10.5MW high speed diesel engines with 1,500 rotations per minute
 (rpm) that offer the advantage of a lower, initial purchase price and quicker installation
 compared to medium speed and heavy fuel oil (HFO) based engines but, on the debit side,
 have a shorter lifetime under continuous operation 24 hours per day. The additional
 generation capacity was expected to provide day-load capacity to support electricity
 demand during business and evening hours;

 (b)   associated electromechanical equipment and critical spare parts; and

 (c) the installation of an accurate fuel metering system to ensure a good management of
 fuel as the fuel consumption represents more than 85 percent of the electricity generation
 cost.

20.     Component 2: Rehabilitation of Hydro Power Plants (US$ 3 million)
The purpose of this component was to guarantee the technical availability of the existing
hydro power plant outputs at their original level of performance. This component included
the replacement of critical electromechanical equipment of the 18MW Rwegura (the largest

                                             5
plant in the country) and the 2MW Nyemanga hydro power plants to increase their reliability,
through there following planned activities:

 (a) the replacement or refurbishment of mechanical equipment, including the cooling
 system;

 (b) the replacement or refurbishment of electrical equipment such as alternators, control
 and regulation system, protection system, medium voltage equipment; and

 (c)   the procurement of spare parts.

21.    Component 3: Rehabilitation of Electricity Transmission and Distribution Network
(US$1.25 million)
This component aimed to enable REGIDESO and MWEM to establish an upgraded
distribution voltage level (from the current 6.6kV to 10kV) to improve the quality of supply
to five recently connected neighborhoods in the Bujumbura capital area. This component
included the following activities:

 (a) the replacement of an old 10MVA 30/6.6kV transformer of the RN1 substation by a
 new 30/10kV transformer with the same capacity; and

 (b) the replacement of associated equipment such as MV switchboards, cables and
 auxiliaries MV distribution system.

22.    Component 4 – Pre-payment Meters (US$1.55 million)
This component financed the acquisition of the 15,000 prepayment meters needed to fully
equip the distribution system, taking into account the meters already provided under the
MSWEIP. This investment was expected to enable REGIDESO to improve its cash flow and
reduce the amount of billing arrears from public, commercial and household customers.
Prepaid metering was also expected to enable improved management of electricity
consumption for REGIDESO’s customers and, especially for poorer households with limited
and uncertain cash income, thereby reducing the risk of power cuts.

23.      Component 5 – Fuel Procurement and support to Project Management (US$3.75
million)
Under Component 1, the project proposed, to increase the diesel generating capacity at the
Bujumbura thermal power plant (from 5.5 to 10.5MW), to scale up power production in
Bujumbura during business hours. The increase in thermal generation based on diesel fuel
was anticipated to dramatically increase the utility's electricity production costs. REGIDESO
therefore needed to mobilize significant additional revenues to make the operation of thermal
power plants financially sustainable. The annual fuel cost required to operate the Bujumbura
thermal power plant with an extended capacity of 10.5MW was estimated atUS$16 million
per year. This would have required a 140 percent surcharge on the current average electricity
tariff to allow REGIDESO to pay for fuel and maintenance costs and to sustain the power
plant operation at a level equivalent to 12 hours per day. To reduce the immediate price
impact of increasing tariffs on already vulnerable small and medium size enterprises (SMEs)
and the general population, the project accompanied the financing of the extension of the
generating plant with a gradually declining subsidy of the fuel cost.



                                             6
24.    This component financed the subsidy of the fuel costs as well as technical assistance
to strengthen the implementation capacity of REGIDESO in procurement and contract
supervision. The project included the financing of:

 (a) an international consultant to supervise the extension of the Bujumbura thermal
 generation plant;

 (b) an international consultant to supervise the rehabilitation works of hydro power
 plants; and

 (c) an additional procurement consultant with experience in the World Bank’s
 procurement guidelines and procedures (for a period of 6-9 months or as needed) to
 accelerate the processing of large scale contracts under international competitive bidding
 procedures, and advice on negotiations and tender evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components

25.     The overall components were not revised. However, one component activity, the
rehabilitation of the two hydro plants, was revised in scope to include only priority
rehabilitation works, due to cost increases during project implementation. This activity was
undertaken with parallel financing from the government of The Netherlands.

1.7 Other significant changes

26.     The project included initially the purchase of US$3.75 million of diesel fuel for the
new 5MW plant during the initial years of operation while the tariff was gradually adjusted.
As the plant had to be run more than the initially envisaged 12 hours per day in order to
satisfy more of the unserved demand, the amount of this component was increased to
US$4.29 million. Another change was the extension of the capacity of the thermal plant from
the initially envisaged 5MW to 6.4MW without impacting the cost of the component.
Following the request of the GoB, savings of about US$0.287 million were cancelled and
reallocated to the country portfolio in January 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

27.     The project was prepared by REGIDESO with support from a World Bank team and
strong commitment by the Government. The project was designed to help REGIDESO meet
the power demand and provide a better quality of service while improving billing and
collection in the face of increasing demand from individual consumers and economic
operators. To start improving the financial performance of REGIDESO in 2007, the
government had cleared its arrears to REGIDESO for 2004 and 2005 and raised tariffs. The
government and the Bank agreed to try to mitigate the risk exposure to fluctuating world
petroleum prices that would be increased with the extension of the diesel power plant by
putting in place a fuel ‘pass-through-mechanism’, allowing for quarterly tariff adjustments
reflecting the cost of fuel purchases. A letter to clarify the Energy Sector Policy, committing
the GoB to cost reflective tariffs and the introduction of the fuel cost ‘pass-through-
mechanism’, and reflecting the variable cost of diesel based electricity production, was
signed in June, 2010.


                                              7
28.     The design of the components was based on detailed and precise analysis of the
sectors, presented in the PAD. Due to the emergency nature of the project, the design of the
various project components was based on estimates at the pre-feasibility stage, to be fully
developed during project implementation. This approach was justified in the context of the
project, which aimed at meeting immediate needs for additional capacity in order to alleviate
the throttling effect on the economy of power shortages, and considering the technically
simple nature of the project components. The adopted approach involved a higher
implementation risk, which is inherent to emergency projects. More detailed preparatory
studies and Board approval of the project only after bids for the thermal capacity had been
received, would have likely reduced the implementation risk but it would also have delayed
implementation by several months, with a high economic cost to the economy. Implicitly,
the economic opportunity cost/financing risk trade-off was taken into account in the design of
the civil engineering of the thermal generation component. However, there is little indication
that past experience with the design and implementation of the prepayment meter component
was explicitly taken into account. Drawing on the lessons of the MSWEIP, the project
preparation period was used to advance preparation of bidding documents. At the time, the
urgent needs of the sector required an emergency response.

29.     A number of risks were identified in the PAD, the most substantial ones of which
were related to the financial viability of REGIDESO, its serious accounting shortcomings, the
lack of implementation capacity, fluctuations in fuel prices, accumulation of new arrears to
REGIDESO, and drought. The mitigation measures were generally well adapted and
included the implementation of the mitigating measures developed under the MSWEIP, that
were technical measures to reduce losses and adjust the tariff regime in order to achieve
financial viability, combined with additional financial management and procurement
strengthening of REGIDESO, transitional subsidies for thermal generation on a declining
basis and diversification of production sources. The risk of limited procurement processing
capacity in REGIDESO was mitigated by early preparation of tender documents. However,
the technical risks of the project were not fully highlighted. In reality, the risks which
affected the project were weaknesses in the civil engineering design of the thermal power
generation component, under-estimation of the cost and technically necessary scope of the
hydro rehabilitation, which suffered a large cost overrun, and complications in the
implementation of the prepayment meter component due to limited coordination. 2

30.     The project was well designed and built on comprehensive analysis of the sector and
precise definition of objectives. However, some of the investment activities were not directly
related to the PDO. The connection between the PDO and the purchase of pre-payment
meters may be seen as indirect. The results chain was well-established for most components,
as the project team identified results achievable in the short, medium, and long term, although
the impact of the pre-payment meter component could not be expected to materialize within
the project implementation period. Risk assessment and mitigation measures were adequate.




2
 The pre-payment project component included the supply and installation of 15,000 prepayment meters in
Bujumbura and vicinity, but only 7,650 meter could be installed in the project geographical area, as some meters
had already been installed in that area under REGIDISO’s investment program..


                                                       8
2.2 Implementation

31.     The project was approved by the World Bank Board on September 30, 2010, signed
on December 1, 2010,and was declared effective on February 23, 2011. The covenants were
as follows:

   • REGIDESO should maintain an annual return of not less than zero percent (0
   percent);

   • On the basis of forecasts prepared by the REGIDESO, review whether REGIDESO
   would meet a positive annual return in the next fiscal year;

   • No later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, REGIDESO should enforce a
   mechanism to pass on to its customers the cost of purchasing the fuel used to generate
   energy (the “Fuel Cost Pass-Though Mechanism”);

   • Each year starting from the date of establishment of the Fuel Cost Pass-Though
   Mechanism, REGIDESO should prepare: (a) a reasonable forecast of total operating
   revenues and of total operating expenses; and (b) details of any necessary tariff revision
   in order to enable the REGIDESO to meet the targets set out in the Performance Contract.

32.     In respect of the dated covenants concerning REGIDESO after 2008 and up to 2014,
the performance of the GoB and REGIDESO was as follows:

   • The annual return of REGIDESO was positive every year, as tariffs were adjusted in
   2011 and 2012;

   • A formal annual review was not carried out, as it was deemed unnecessary
   considering that the annual return was positive and tariffs were adjusted as needed;

   • The need for a tariff pass-through-mechanism was discussed and recognized by the
   Government and REGIDESO and a detailed mechanism was designed. The proposed
   mechanism was found acceptable by the Government and REGIDESO, but it has not been
   formally adopted and enforced yet. Simulations are on-going. The immediate need for
   the tariff pass-through mechanism was reduced as the tariff was raised by more than 50
   percent in 2011-12. However, the failure to operationalize the pass-through mechanism
   could affect negatively the sustainability of the project;

   • As the pass-through mechanism is not effective yet, the tariff is adjusted in an ad-hoc
   manner, although sufficiently to meet the operational needs of REGIDESO.

33.     The Project implementation manual was adopted only in December 2012, nearly two
years after effectiveness. Nevertheless, during the period February, 2011 to December, 2012,
implementation progressed.

34.     During project implementation, the project Steering Committee met several times per
year. However, its effectiveness was hampered by the low level of attendance by key
members. Moreover, the minutes of the meeting indicate that the Committee reviewed the
performance ex-post rather than providing guidance on implementation issues. It was also
noted that the Committee did not discuss the findings of the project audit reports.

                                             9
35.     Procurement for the main packages was executed on schedule. However, the
preparatory technical studies of key project components should have been more detailed. For
the thermal plant, the lack of detailed study for civil works led to a dispute during
implementation and to entrusting the design of the foundations to the contractor. For the
rehabilitation of the hydro plants, old estimates of price and scope were used, which led to
bids significantly higher than expected and a redesign of this project component; and for the
pre-payment meters, the evaluation of the number of meters needed did not fully take into
account the number of clients who could be equipped with pre-payment meters and the
number of meters already ordered, leading to an excess supply. Limited depth of the
preparatory studies, however, is inherent to emergency operations, which have to balance
need for in-depth and time consuming preparatory studies, and the emergency nature of the
project. In general, the project benefitted from the Bank’s capacity building efforts under the
MSWEIP, as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) shared a number of key staff with the
MSWEIP (procurement, financial management, and some technical staff) with a positive
impact on project implementation.

36.    Project disbursements were slow initially, with only 7.5 percent of the funds disbursed
in 2011. In 2012, implementation accelerated and disbursements reached 45.6 percent by
year end. In 2013, disbursements continued to accelerate as the payments for the main
contracts were made, including payment for the fuel component and part of the thermal plant
construction, which was completed in August 2013. The final figure of disbursements
reached about 98.64 percent as additional fuel was purchased and SDR 180,000 were
cancelled by project closing date. Overall, the disbursement performance of the EEP was
highly satisfactory, considering the weak institutional capacity of REGIDESO and the
Ministry, the fragility of Burundi, and the fact that no restructuring or extension of the project
was undertaken.

37.     In February 2013, the implementation progress (IP) and achievement of development
objective (DO) ratings were downgraded from “Satisfactory” to “Moderately Satisfactory”
because at that time, ten months before the closing date, disbursements were only 50 percent;
and it became clear that the completion of the thermal component of the project would be
delayed; the hydro component of the project had to be scaled down in scope, and all the pre-
payment meters financed under the project would not be installed in Bujumbura, as expected,
but in other urban centers. Only by the end of the project did REGIDESO succeed in
accelerating disbursements, negotiating with the contractor to reduce the delay in
commissioning the thermal plant to six months and revising the meter installation contract to
include selected provincial centers.

38.     The Mid-term Review (MTR) was carried out from April 24 to May 4, 2013. It was
delayed by nearly a year because of the delays in construction of the 5 MW thermal plant.
By the MTR, the government had not implemented the fuel pass-through mechanism but it
had implemented a two-stage increase in tariffs (in 2011 and 2012) and, thus, provided more
clarity on the medium-term financial sustainability of the sector. The MTR was used to
discuss: the need to accelerate the design and implementation of the fuel cost pass-through
formula and the conditions under which an extension of the project closing date to end 2014
could be envisaged. The MTR mission stressed that a condition for the Bank to consider an
extension of the closing date will be the implementation of the fuel pass-through mechanism.
The MTR also noted the need to finalize the prepayment meter installation contract as a
priority, as the project closing date was nearing and the meters had been already delivered.
All the project components were progressing well after a slow start, their relevance to achieve

                                               10
the PDO was still strong, and the PDO, although broad in its formulation still reflected a high
national priority, therefore a restructuring of the project was deemed unnecessary. Although
monitoring the implementation of the Performance Contract between the Government and
REGIDESO was not a covenant under the EEP, the adjustment of tariffs to meet the
Performance Contract targets was, thus the MTR reviewed the performance of the
Government and REGIDESO, and highlighted the need to implement the provisions of the
Performance Contract, aiming at improving the technical and financial performance of the
company. The MTR made also a number of specific recommendations concerning the
implementation of the fuel pass-through mechanism and the development of a management
information system in REGIDESO.

39.    The implementation of the project’s main component met a number of challenges,
which were ultimately overcome with little adverse impact on the attainment of the
development objectives, but provides lessons (see below Section 6).

   • The construction of the 5MW thermal plant had design, supervision and
   implementation issues:

           o The design of the plant was prepared by REGIDESO. However, the design of
           the civil works component was entrusted to an engineer with limited experience;
           the design given to the bidders was questionable and had to be improved by the
           contractor during execution;

           o The recruitment of the engineer in charge of the supervision of construction
           was delayed and concluded with a less than fully satisfactory solution. The local
           expert had, in fact, limited experience with the construction of generation units of
           the project’s size; and

           o The firm selected for the construction of the thermal plant worked with a weak
           design and was left without adequate supervision for more than a year (see
           above). . However, the contractor ultimately delivered (without a cost over-run) a
           plant with over-designed generators compared to the initial design with a capacity
           of 6.4MW instead of the contracted 5MW.

   • The implementation of the hydro rehabilitation component faced challenges: the
   scope and cost estimates were based on previous studies prepared two years earlier in
   2008 as part of an AfDB project, which was abandoned when the bids came in
   significantly higher than budgeted. The tender launched under the EEP on the basis of
   the AfDB scope and estimates led to bids in excess of US$10 million (compared to an
   estimate of US$3 million in the EEP PAD). It was decided, in light of the urgency of the
   rehabilitation, to revise the scope of the works through direct negotiation to adjust the
   scope of works to the available budget. Further, during implementation of the
   rehabilitation with reduced scope, additional unforeseen problems appeared, requiring a
   further reduction of the scope of the Bank financed rehabilitation. The additional cost of
   rehabilitation under reduced scope was met through a financing from the Cooperation of
   The Netherlands. REGIDESO is looking for financing from alternative sources to
   complete its rehabilitation program.




                                              11
    • The pre-payment meters component of the EEP relied on the preparatory work of the
    corresponding component of the MSWEIP.       Several problems appeared during
    implementation:

            o In the absence of a detailed plan determining how many meters are needed and
            where they should be installed, it turned out that more meters had been ordered
            than could be installed in Bujumbura as envisaged in the installation contract. The
            scope of the installation contract had to be revised to include installation outside
            of Bujumbura and some of the meters had to be installed by REGIDESO.

            o No financial analysis was prepared justifying the installation of pre-payment
            meters costing US$100 per units plus maintenance for all clients, most of whom
            have electricity bills of US$4 to 6 per month and have no recorded bill collection
            problems. 3

40.      At project closing, all retained activities had been completed and the main
infrastructure was operational. The project closed on the initially foreseen date, in spite of
initial procurement delays and the cancellation of SDR 180,000 of IDA funds.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
41.      The project results framework had adequate PDO indicators and good intermediate
results indicators to support evaluation. Baselines and targets were available for all indicators.
The intermediate outcome indicator for the extension of Bujumbura thermal Generation plant
(Generation capacity of conventional generation constructed (MW)) could have included a
sub-indicator on the average capacity in operation. At present, although the total thermal
installed capacity is 21.9MW, the available capacity is less than 13.8MW, as three groups
from the new unit are not available awaiting periodic maintenance and one group of the
5.5MW plant is under repair, highlighting the maintenance issue and sustainability risk for
the project. Also the PAD could have stated explicitly that the performance indicators related
to the installation of pre-payment meters (number of meters installed and bill collection rate)
encompass the impact of the project component as well as the impact of the corresponding
component of the MSWEIP and the meter program of REGIDESO.

Implementation
42.    Reporting on progress was generally candid and regular. The reports included
updates to indicator values in each quarterly progress report, linking progress or lack of the
same to project activities and performance. The ISRs incorporated core indicators for the
number of beneficiaries and the percentage of female beneficiaries. Important core indicators
mentioned in the project PAD, including the number of unplanned interruptions, the
conventional generation capacity constructed, the capacity of renewable energy rehabilitated
and the electricity collection rate were closely monitored.




3
  The categories of client with collection rates below 50 percent are: local communities - 10 percent;
Government - 20 percent; Administrations - 38 percent. On the other hand, households, industries and big
consumers have bill recovery rates well above 70 percent.


                                                  12
Utilization
43.     Progress reports provided a basis on which to develop corrective measures to
implementation shortcomings. When the procurement of works took too long to get
underway or other activities experienced delays, additional technical assistance was
employed to get the project back on track, for example for the design of the fuel pass-through
mechanism. A household and business survey was carried out and valuable qualitative
information to assess the perception of the impact of the project with the public was made
available.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance

44.     The EEP was classified as category "B" project and triggered safeguard policies
Operational Policy (O.P.) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and O.P. 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. As the safeguard impact of the EEP is very similar to the one of the MSWEIP,
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy
Framework of the MSWEIP were updated, approved by the Bank, and disclosed before
project appraisal in the country and to the World Bank’s InfoShop.

45.     During project implementation, safeguards were handled in REGIDESO by the same
team that had been trained by Bank safeguards staff and was responsible for safeguards
compliance under the MSWEIP. The environmental and social impacts of activities financed
by the project were mitigated in a satisfactory manner as a result of the guidelines developed
and implementation of environmental and social management plans. The bidding documents
and contracts included relevant safeguard mitigation measures concerning the management of
used oil, spill risk and civil works in particular, which were correctly implemented. The
client carried out, with the support of the supervision expert, two environmental and social
reviews of all the project components. The client satisfactorily took into account the
recommendations and mitigation measures resulting from the reviews, including oil spill risk
mitigation measures, and the establishment of a permanent socio-environmental unit in
REGIDESO. In the ISRs, the Bank’s safeguard team rated the socio-environmental risk of
the project as Moderate.

46.     Project component specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA)
and Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans (ARAP) were prepared based on updates of the
ESIA and ARAP of the MSWEIP, mainly for the hydropower rehabilitation component of the
project.

Fiduciary compliance

47.    Procurement. The PIU in REGIDESO, which handled implementation of the
MSWEIP, was also responsible for all procurement under the project, supported by
consultant specialists. Slow procurement processing was responsible for delays in the start-
up phase of the project but, by the end of year one, the delays had been substantially reduced.
Post-procurement reviews by the Bank did not reveal any irregularities and Bank
procurement procedures were complied with. A procurement issue that was the subject of
much discussion was the handling of the contract for the rehabilitation of the hydro power
plants. The initial budget for this component was US$3 million and the lowest evaluated
bidder’s offer was in excess of US$11 million. REGIDESO, with Bank concurrence, not
only negotiated a significant revision of the scope of the work to fit the available funds of

                                              13
US$3 million, but also approached other donors to seek additional funding in order to cover
the reduced scope of works and was successful in obtaining EUR 2.3million from the
Government of The Netherlands. The revision of scope changed the nature of the contract
and post-award negotiations were significant; a re-bidding might have been considered and
was discussed, on the basis that firms which did not bid for a scope of work worth US$11
million might have been interested in bidding for a reduced scope of work worth US$3
million. However, the limited interest generated by the tender for this component due to the
proprietary nature of the equipment (two bidders and only one qualified bidder) and the
emergency nature of the project may explain the decision to negotiate with the lowest
evaluated bidder rather than re-tender. The decision to negotiate rather than re-tender was
approved by the Bank’s Regional Procurement Manager (RPM).

48.     Financial management. The PIU was also responsible for financial management, with
support of a consultant specialist. Regular supervision missions have confirmed that the
project complied with the obligations of financial reporting and auditing: (i) audit reports and
Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted to the Bank on time; and (ii) there were no
overdue external audit reports and IFRs at the time of the project closing date. All audit
reports and IFRs were reviewed by the Bank and comments provided to the client. The
project fully complied with Bank financial management procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

49.     All infrastructure works financed by the project are commissioned and the transition
to post-completion operation is assured by the substantially improved operating practices and
financial standing of REGIDESO. The reforms initiated by the MSWEIP continued to be
supported by the EEP. Currently, 15,000 electricity pre-payment meters have been procured
with EEP financing and REGIDESO has launched the tender for another 36,600 prepaid
household electricity meters, which will bring the coverage up to 100 percent by end-2014.
This measure is expected to improve revenue collection, although measurable positive impact
has yet to materialize. The rehabilitation of the two most important national hydro plants
could not be completed under the EEP and an estimated US$10 million is needed to
permanently restore the plants to safe and efficient operation at full capacity. This is being
studied by REGIDESO, which is seeking financing from the EU to fill the financing gap. In
the next phase, REGIDESO may consider three investment avenues, which were supported
by the MSWEIP and the EEP: (i) full installation of pre-payment meters; (ii) completion of
the rehabilitation of the hydro plants, which are the backbone of the power system; and (iii)
rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution system in order to improve reliability of
supply. Given constraints on availability of funds, REGIDESO should prioritize investments
according to the highest financial return.

50.     The project helped leverage internal and external assistance to support the short and
medium term strategy articulated in the PRSP-2 of reducing the gap between electricity
demand and supply. The other important element of the energy strategy of GoB is to reduce
the cost of supply by eliminating the use of expensive emergency diesel generators and
replacing them with lower cost hydropower electricity. The October 2013 conference on the
future of the energy sector in Burundi, prepared in the context of the 52.5MW Jiji &
Mulembwe hydropower studies financed by MSWEIP, was thus successful in mobilizing
partners to continue to support the various pieces of the energy sector puzzle: (i) sector
reform; (ii) funding for the Jiji & Mulembwe hydropower plant with a cost of about US$270
million through grants from the EU, AfDB, and World Bank, and European Investment Bank

                                              14
concessional loan; (iii) developing a framework for future mobilization of public-private
partnership project sponsors and donors for both generation, transmission and distribution;
and (iv) clarifying who is doing what in the sector. In addition, IFC is active in the electricity
sector with activities ongoing to review and amend the Electricity Law and develop the
accompanying secondary regulation and preparation of model concessions and power
purchase agreements combined with training.

51.     The subsequent Bank-financed Jiji & Mulembwe project (approved in April 2014)
contains a full package of technical assistance to assure continued development of the
electricity sector. This operation includes:

   • REGIDESO institutional reform implementation support with a view to turning the
   utility into a truly performance-based commercial entity to allow it to meet the ongoing
   pressure to expand the access system significantly, while at the same time improving
   overall service quality and maintaining the company’s fiscal integrity;

   • Capacity building for the electricity regulator, which was established in 2011 for the
   water and electricity sector but is not yet operational; and

   •   Capacity building for future PPP risk assessment and management.

52.    In order to limit the supply deficit while waiting for the major new generation
capacity to become operational (Jiji & Mulembwe, Ruzumo Falls, Ruzizi III), the
government contracted a 10MW rental thermal plant for two years starting in June 2013.
Taking into account the existing 5.5MW thermal plant owned by REGIDESO, installed
thermal capacity was increased to 21.9MW (compared to the 10.5MW expected initially
under the EEP).

53.    In line with the energy development strategy for the country, several useful follow up
mini-hydro projects are now being planned, based on the hydro atlas prepared with Belgium
funding.

54.    The government will have to take a decision as to the next steps for establishing a
regulatory entity for the water and electricity sectors. In particular, the government must
decide on: (i) the continued integration or separation of the water and electricity activities of
REGIDESO; and (ii) the establishment of a permanent regulatory entity, as envisaged in the
law 1014 from 2000 reinforced under the new Electricity Law under preparation with the
support of IFC.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

55.      The relevance of the EEP objectives and design is ‘high’, in light of the development
priorities of the Burundi’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-2) for the period
2011-2015 and current World Bank CAS (2013-2016). In the PRSP-2, the first priority to
improve access to better quality economic infrastructure is attained by increasing electricity
production, restoring financial sustainability of REGIDESO, and promoting renewable
energy resources. The EEP contributed directly to the first two objectives and, though to a
lesser extent, to the third objective as well (through the rehabilitation of the hydro plants).

                                               15
56.     The analysis in the PRSP-2 concludes that electricity shortages and the unreliable
network present a major constraint to achieving the government’s ambitious growth
objectives. Rapidly increased demand (due to the adoption of ambitious electricity access
rate objectives under the Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) initiative, development of
urban centers, and expected progress in industrialization) has led the government to make the
balancing of supply and demand a priority in its strategy. To date, only about 4 percent of
households in Burundi have access to electricity. National (unconstrained) electricity demand
is increasing at 8-12 percent per year but effective supply is growing at less than 2 percent,
due to lack of generation capacity. There is daily load shedding of 20 to 30MW and some 36
percent of the demand is not served.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

57.     The project substantially achieved its PDO. Assessment of the degree of achievement
of the PDO is based on progress made to improve the capacity and reliability of electricity
generation, transmission, and distribution under the EEP. At the national level other
measures which were not included in the EEP are required to improve the reliability of power
supply such as the rehabilitation of the entire network. Although most of these measures
were not implemented simultaneously with the EEP, the PDO was achieved. Achievement of
the three key outcome indicators was as follows:

 (a) The frequency of power interruptions in Bujumbura was to be reduced from 50 per
 year to 30 per year. The performance by the end of the project (December 31, 2013) was
 46 because of interruptions in the transmission line from SINELAC. Excluding these
 incidents, the frequency would have been about 20, as was the case in June 2013. This
 illustrates that achievement of the PDO and key outcome indicators were not solely
 dependent on the implementation of the EEP;

 (b) Increased electricity generation from the Bujumbura thermal power plant
 (GWh/year) from 6GWh to 25GWh. A level of 25GWh was achieved in 2013, in part due
 to the commissioning of 10 MW of rented thermal capacity independently of the EEP. The
 6.4MW thermal plant financed under the project generated 20.3GWh in 2013;

 (c) Direct project beneficiaries (of which female %).              The number of project
 beneficiaries, which was to increase from 270,000 to 318,000, corresponds to the number of
 persons with access to electricity, who were all expected to benefit from the improvement
 in quality of supply by end 2013. The target was exceeded, as the number of new
 connections was higher than projected, although the increase in the number of connections
 was not included in the project nor explicitly taken into account during project preparation.
 Some 456,552 persons were connected at the end of the project and benefitted from
 electricity of better quality than without the project. The number of female beneficiaries is
 estimated as 50%, which corresponds approximately to the proportion of females in
 households in Burundi;

Intermediate Outcome Indicators

 (a) Generation capacity from conventional energy (MW). The baseline figure was
 5.5MW (corresponding to the installed capacity in 2009) and the target was 10.5MW. The
 target was exceeded, with a present installed capacity of 21.9MW including the original
 5.5MW, plus the project addition of 6.4MW, and 10MW of rented capacity for peak

                                             16
 shaving under a two year contract expected to terminate in 2014, but likely to be extended
 at least for another two years. Although the rented capacity is not owned by REGIDESO, it
 is part of the installed generation capacity as defined in the intermediate outcome indicator.
 Without the 10MW rental, the generation capacity would have been 11.9MW, still
 exceeding the 10.5MW target;

 (b) Capacity of renewable energy rehabilitated. The baseline was zero and the target
 20MW. The performance achieved is 20MW of renewable energy rehabilitated. A
 complete rehabilitation was envisaged, however, due to bids coming in more than 300
 percent above budget, only priority rehabilitations could be executed. REGIDESO is
 seeking financing to complete the rehabilitation program. While the renewable energy
 capacity rehabilitated was on target, at 20MW, the sustainability of the rehabilitation
 executed under the project was less than envisaged as only short term rehabilitations were
 undertaken, thus requiring additional work to be carried shortly to ensure the sustainability
 of the improvements obtained under the EEP;

 (c) MV and HV substations rehabilitated. The baseline was zero and the target one. The
 target has been achieved;

 (d) Number of pre-paid meters installed. The baseline was 10,000 and the target 43,000
 in total for REGIDESO. The number of pre-payment meters included meter purchases
 under the MSWEIP and meters being purchased by REGIDESO. The number of pre-
 payment meters installed in total by the end of the EEP was 44,321, including 7,650 meters
 installed under the EEP. An additional 2,300 meters, already delivered, are being installed.
 The target has been exceeded, although not all pre-payment meters purchased under the
 project have been installed;

 (e) Electricity collection rate. The collection rate calculated as payments collected in the
 year divided by billing of the base year was 64 percent and the target was 85 percent. The
 collection level achieved is 81.7 percent, although the number of installed pre-payment
 meters is above target, as the roll-out of the pre-payment meter program has met a number
 of challenges. This intermediate outcome indicator was not fully achieved, but the
 performance did not depend mainly on the installation of pre-payment meters, but also and
 mainly on the installation of a reliable management system, development of the right
 regulation, staff motivation and governance, all aspects which were not included in the
 EPP; and

 (f) Increased availability of power supply from the thermal plants in hours per week.
 The baseline data was zero as all units from the old plant were out of service and the target
 was 56 hours per week. The number of hours achieved is 156, significantly above the
 target, as two units from the old plant have been repaired and REGIDESO has rented
 10MW of thermal capacity in Bujumbura;

58.     In sum, these results support a Moderately Satisfactory rating. On the one hand, all
output targets for rehabilitation of HV and MV substations, installation of pre-paid electricity
meters, installation and operation of generation capacity, development of renewable energy
based generation and impact for the beneficiaries were achieved or surpassed. At the same
time, other intermediate outcome indicators temper the evaluation, most notably the
underperformance of REGIDESO in terms of improving bill collection efficiency (even
though, at the end of the project, the numbers were improving, with collection efficiency at

                                              17
82.7 percent after a temporary dip to 66 percent), and the failure to implement the fuel pass-
through mechanism.

59.     The Moderately Satisfactory rating for achievement of PDO is further supported by
the fact that the EEP was critical in avoiding a near collapse of the power system, as the
existing thermal units were out of commission and the hydro units were breaking down due
to lack of repairs during the conflict period and contraction of GoB’s resources post-crisis.
The PDO highlighted the urgent need for more capacity and improved reliability, and the
project was critical in preventing the breakdown of the remaining hydro plants, and replacing
the thermal capacity that was out of commission. In the absence of the EEP, the level of
unserved demand would have reached a catastrophic 70 percent.                The electricity
rehabilitation works financed by the project considerably improved the reliability and quality
of supply and reduced outage times in the national grid, as evidenced not only by
REGIDESO’s statistics, but by the result of the Consumer Survey (see para. 68). The
investments re-established the back-bone grid supply function. The supply gap was reduced
more than expected, as the generation capacity was further increased by the rental of 10MW
of capacity subsidized by the government for about US$0.9 million per month. Although this
rental has resulted in lower than expected load shedding it remains only a temporary
achievement and should not divert the government and REGIDESO from its longer-term
development objectives for the sector. Moreover, it should be noted that the PDO was
achieved within the original project period, in the context of a fragile state with limited
implementation capacity.

3.3 Efficiency

60.     Efficiency is rated ‘Substantial’. At appraisal, a full economic analysis was carried
out with positive results. The economic analysis was carried out for the ICR using the same
methodology but updated numbers and assumptions as relevant. The results show that actual
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 30 percent, against 18 percent at appraisal. The
improved EIRR compared to appraisal expectations is due to the combination of increased
electricity generation and quantification of the economic benefits based on consumers’
willingness to pay. Willingness to pay in Burundi is high, as evidenced by the frequent use
of individual generators with a cost of generation in excess of US$0.53/kWh compared to a
cost of production of the large thermal unit financed under the project of US$ 0.25/kWh. In
addition, the rehabilitation of the hydro plants included in the project allowed the
rehabilitation of 20MW of generation capacity at a cost of US$3 million compared to a
willingness to pay of US$0.53/kWh. The high rate of return illustrates the critical importance
for the Burundian economy of the rehabilitation and extension of capacity executed under the
EEP. The priority given to the rehabilitation of low production cost units, followed by the
construction of thermal capacity4 to substitute to hydro during the dry season and demand
peak hours for increasing capacity was the least cost technical option to meet the PDO.
Details are provided in Annex 3.



4
 Burundi had already plans to develop low cost hydro capacity with the support of the Bank (Jiji & Mulembwe),
but at the time of the EEP appraisal, the feasibility study for the hydro project was at an early stage, so the hydro
capacity was unlikely to be available for another six or seven years, whereas the construction of a small thermal
plant requires only 18 months. Once the hydro plants will be commissioned, the thermal capacity financed
under the EEP will be used mainly during the dry season.


                                                        18
61.     The efficiency of subsidies to the thermal plant was also high. If no short-term
solutions were implemented, the tariff would have had to be increased by another 120 percent.
A number of economic agents would have turned to individual power generating units, with
even higher costs, resulting in reduced competitiveness for business and adding further to the
burden on the Burundian economy and the environment, and the high tariff would have
affected disproportionately lower income consumers.

62.    The high economic rate of return and the high efficiency of the fuel subsidies are
tempered by: (i) the lack of deployment of prepayment meters considering the installation of
7,650 meters out of a total of 15,000 purchased under the project; and (ii) the commissioning
delay of the thermal plant resulting from weak design of the civil engineering.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63.     The project’s relevance remains high, as the improvement of the quality and
availability of power and improved access is a top priority for GoB and has been recognized
by the Bank and IFC as key to economic growth and poverty reduction. The achievement of
the PDOs is rated as moderately satisfactory as the project substantively achieved its
development objective, as measured by the three PDO indicators, even though some of the
intermediate outcome indicators were not fully achieved. Likewise, the pass-through tariff
mechanism (though a covenant and not an intermediate outcome indicator), was also not
implemented, with potential consequences for the project’s sustainability. However, given
the ‘emergency’ nature of the project, greater a significant weight is given to increasing
capacity, improving the reliability of electricity supply, and expanding the number of
beneficiaries. The project’s efficiency was rated as substantial. The combination of the three
factors justifies the overall outcome rating as “Moderately Satisfactory”. However, the short
to medium term sustainability of the project is a concern, as only the short term rehabilitation
measures for the hydro plants could be executed within the budget and financing to make the
rehabilitations sustainable has not been secured yet. In addition, the maintenance of the pre-
payment meters is a major concern, with more than 10 percent of the meters purchased and
installed under the project in need for repair, which REGIDESSO is not able to perform,
resulting in an increasing number of meters being stored pending a solution to the
maintenance problem. The short term sustainability of the thermal plant is also a concern: at
the time of preparation of the ICR, three units out of four were stopped, one because of a
minor breakdown and two due to lack of proprietary tools for periodic maintenance,
suggesting that the maintenance problems of REGIDESO have not been addressed yet.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

64.     The EEP had a positive impact on poverty through the improvement in the availability
and quality of electricity supply to households that cannot afford individual generators and
suffer financial losses from unreliable power supply. Power outages increase their losses of
food, due to stoppage of refrigeration devices; and reduced availability of lighting in houses
result in: less time for children to study in particular, and higher expenditures on alternative
modes of lighting (batteries, kerosene). The EEP also contributed to the improvement in the
quality of social services, benefitting all categories of the population resulting from better
availability of electricity, as social services connected to the grid benefitted from the

                                              19
improved quality of power supply. The EEP also had a positive gender impact, as half of the
persons benefitting from improved supply of electricity are women and the better availability
of light in homes facilitates domestic chores, which are mainly women’s responsibility in
Burundi.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

65.     Being an emergency project, institutional change was not a priority and was handled
under the MSWEIP. Nevertheless, the EEP had some impact in terms of institutional change
through achieving progress toward the implementation of a cost reflective tariff setting
mechanism, although the implementation of the mechanism approved in principle was not
effective by the project closing date. The EEP contributed to the acceptance of the principle
of reflecting operational and maintenance cost in tariffs, thus helping assure the sustainability
of the REGIDESO. The project also contributed to an accountability culture among
customers, who are expected to pay their bills more regularly under the prepayment system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

66.    Installation of pre-payment electricity meters has facilitated management of electricity
consumption by REGIDESO’s customers and resulted in encouraging energy conservation
behavior as customers became more aware of their electricity consumption on a real time
basis.

67.    The final installed capacity of the thermal plant of 6.4MW has an excess of 1.4MW at
no additional cost compared to the requirement of 5MW.

3.6 . Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

68.    A Beneficiary Survey was carried out by REGIDESO with 259 households (30
percent) and small businesses (70 percent) in 2013. The main findings are:

 (a) Relevance of quality of supply of electricity: Some 75 percent of the interviewees
 indicated that availability of electricity is essential for them, and 5 percent that they can
 manage without it;

 (b) Visibility of the EEP: only 11 percent of the interviewees knew about the EEP but 93
 percent indicated they were aware of investments executed under the EEP;

 (c) Impact of the prepayment meter component: 58 percent of the interviewees with
 prepayment meters were satisfied, while 22 percent found the situation worse than before.
 The positive reasons put forward are: (i) control over consumption; and (ii) improved
 reliability of billing. Some 50 percent of households consider they saved electricity as a
 result of the installation of prepayment meters;

 (d) Improvement in quality of service.       Some 90 percent of the interviewees
 acknowledged an improvement in the quality of supply but only 28 percent identified the
 reasons for the improvement;

 (e) Benefit from the improvement in quality of supply: Some 33 percent mentioned the
 reduction in loss of food and 32 percent the reduction of expenditure on alternative forms of

                                               20
 energy. Only 9 percent mentioned improved security and 8 percent mentioned the
 possibility to have more productive activities; and

 (f) Perception of tariff adjustments: Some 55 percent of the interviewees are opposed to
 any tariff adjustment, but 45 percent supported it under certain conditions of equity,
 periodicity and explanation.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

69.      The risk to development outcome is rated moderate given the factors at play which
could place the achievements of this emergency project at risk. Due to local currency
fluctuations and depreciation of about 20 percent in 2012 and resulting in a high level of fuel
and spare parts imports for the thermal plants (about 21.9MW) and the need to honor
multilateral agreements to pay for power imports from regional power plants, it is critical that
the government and REGIDESO review the tariff periodically to reflect operating and
financing costs levels. In future, the tariff will have to integrate the financing cost of
investment in generation (including Jiji & Mulembwe) and the high cost of investment in
access needed to achieve the Government’s SE4All targets, which will require US$20 to 30
million annually. Moreover, the current tariff is based on 90 percent hydro and 10 percent
thermal generation, while starting in June 2013, the new generation outlook foresees 70
percent hydro and 30 percent thermal. Finally, the disappointing performance with
implementing the respective commitments of the government and REGIDESO under the
Performance Contract (which was supported by the EEP) remain a concern for the future
institutional sustainability of reforms supported by the EEP which included the tariff
adjustment mechanism and the implementation of the Performance Contract.

70.     Further, the utility is still receiving more than US$1 million of subsidies monthly.
The new tariffs adopted by the government reflect operating costs, except for the cost of
thermal plants; however, an adjustment mechanism to reflect the cost of thermal generation
has not been put in place, despite agreements with the Bank under the EEP. The financial
position of REGIDESO still depends on financial support from the Government while its
billing and collection performance is still below targets. The substantial risk to development
outcome is further supported by the observation that even when the new hydro plants
including Jiji & Mulembwe are commissioned, REGIDESO will still have to call on
generation from its thermal plants during the dry season when the hydrology decreases by 30
percent on average. The adoption and enforcement of the fuel pass-through mechanism was
therefore important to mitigate this risk, as REGIDESO cannot be expected to finance in the
longer term the cost of thermal generation from grants and subsidies.

71.     Moreover, the capacity of REGIDESO to maintain adequately the new thermal plant
as well as the pre-payment meters and the hydro plants remains a subject of concern, in
consideration of the still poor performance on maintenance observed at the time of
preparation of the ICR. Additionally, the rehabilitation of the hydro plants could not be
executed within the budget and financing to make the rehabilitations sustainable has not been
secured yet. Because of these factors, there is a moderate risk that achieved outcomes under
the project may be eroded over time.




                                              21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72.     Being an emergency operation, speed was of the essence for project preparation. The
Bank fielded a broad-based skills team of Bank staff though it lacked a seasoned power
engineer with emergency power supply experience. The EEP preparation process benefitted
from the project implementation framework developed in REGIDESO, which reduced the
implementation risk. The project design drew on the design of the MSWEIP project under
implementation at the time, and some lessons learned from this project were taken into
account, specifically, the project design and support to the PIU. Lessons from emergency
projects developed elsewhere did not appear to have taken into account. The Bank’s
performance at entry is rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory” rating on the basis of the
following:

 (a) Reliance on engineering prepared by staff of REGIDESO with little experience in the
 design of thermal plants, which turned out to be a cause of implementation problems due to
 poor design;

 (b) Project supervision by an Owner’s Engineer selected on the basis of individual
 expertise without sufficiently taking into account experience with similar project
 components and in small post-conflict countries, which resulted in a higher project risk in
 an already high risk environment;

 (c) Insufficient assessment of AfDB’s experience with its failed attempt to finance the
 hydro rehabilitation component of the project. This led to the scope of the hydro
 rehabilitation component being inconsistent with available financing and a tendering
 process that ended up with unsatisfactory results. The necessity to proceed on the basis of
 sole source procurement after the failed open tender could have been anticipated; and

 (d) The design of the prepayment meter component omitted a meter maintenance training
 component, although the need for such a component was clear and the example of nearby
 Rwanda could have been considered, rather than replicating the MWSEP design on which
 no feed-back was available at the time.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

73.     The Bank team’s supervision of the project was very effective. Implementation
support missions were regular (6 missions in total, although 12 missions were anticipated in
the PAD), and the Bank team continuously followed-up on implementation issues, as testified
by candid evaluations in ISRs and realistic ratings when the progress towards PDO and
implementation progress was slow in the initial phases. The Bank provided intensive and
pro-active implementation support to the construction of the thermal plant and rehabilitation
of the main hydro and transmission infrastructure. The support provided to implementing the
project and rectifying initial problems in the project design due to its emergency nature was
decisive in assuring a positive outcome. Monitoring of fiduciary aspects was adequate
throughout.

                                             22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.    The overall “Moderately Satisfactory” rating is justified by the “Satisfactory”
performance during project implementation, which was instrumental in achieving the main
outcome indicators, and helped offset some of the shortcomings noted in the “Moderately
Unsatisfactory” performance during preparation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     The Government made commendable efforts to restore the financial sustainability of
REGIDESO through two successive increases in electricity tariff for a total of 51 percent,
bringing the tariff to US$0.11/kWh on average, based on the recommendation of a Tariff
Study (September 2011 and March 2012). The implementation of the tariff adjustments was
particularly sensitive, as the quality of service increased only marginally during the period as
load shedding continued, even if on a reduced scale. However, the government performance
is rated “Moderately Satisfactory” because of the following considerations:

 (a)   The fuel pass-through mechanism has not yet been enacted;

 (b) Efforts to introduce the major reforms needed to put the sector on a sustainable
 footing were made by GoB but it did not actively follow-up on implementation of tariff
 measures agreed with the Bank and needed to achieve the targets of the Performance
 Contract; and

 (c) The effectiveness of the Project Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage du Projet,
 CPP) was limited, as the CPP met irregularly, with a high absenteeism rate, and limited its
 activities to ex-post review of progress rather than steering the implementation of the
 project and providing guidance to the PIU. In addition, the results of the project
 implementation reviews by the CPP were poorly disseminated.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     The overall performance of REGIDESO was “Moderately Satisfactory”. On the one
hand, the utility, through the PIU, succeeded in substantially implementing the appraised
program of activities and substantially achieving the development outcome. The PIU staff
remained essentially unchanged for the duration of the project and it successfully coordinated
implementation, associating the relevant REGIDESO departments. On the other hand,
REGIDESO entrusted the responsibility for designing a key project component, the thermal
plant, to one of its staff with insufficient competency, putting the project at risk, and
supported the selection of an Owner’s Engineer with limited experience.

77.     REGIDESO was also slow to process procurement in the project start-up phase and
had little expertise regarding safeguards though during implementation, the agency created
and staffed a Social and Environmental unit to address this issue. The high turnover rate in
REGIDESO management (with two general managers and three to four managers in all key
departments) undoubtedly contributed to lessening continuity of management oversight.

                                              23
78.     The performance of REGIDESO was less satisfactory regarding the timely
preparation of the required accounting audit reports for REGIDESO, which were issued late
(the 2012 REGIDESO audit report has not been received yet, although the Project accounts
audit reports were delivered on schedule). Follow-up action on the recommendations of the
auditors (as well as the recommendations of the Organizational audit) was limited and did not
result in improvement in accounting system reliability and quality, nor in the management
system overall.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.  The “Moderately Satisfactory” performance rating of the Government and
REGIDESO justifies a “Moderately Satisfactory” overall rating of Borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

80.     In Emergency operations, a delicate balance needs to be found between speed, the
implementation risk and project quality. Firstly, it should be clear that the emergency applies
to the impact of the project, rather than preparation or implementation time. The main
consideration should be to balance the time needed to get impact with reasonable certainty
compared to shortening project preparation time or implementation period with higher risks
on the expected impact. Although it is clear that risk taking is inherent to emergency
operations and should not be discouraged, it can be mitigated to some extent by accepting
known risks but avoiding risks resulting from unknowns. In the case of the EEP, proceeding
with the project without full design of the civil engineering of the thermal plant would have
been an acceptable risk if a tested and reliable approach for completing the design had been
retained, rather than an approach depending upon the untested capacity of the Beneficiary to
carry out such a design. Similarly, the review of the AfDB experience with procurement for
the hydro rehabilitation would have led to fully informed risk taking, instead of assuming that
open tender was the right approach. Implementation challenges should be addressed through
adhering to preparation and procurement procedures tested in the context of the country.

81.     Tendering Procedures be employed in Emergency Operations should balance the
need for speed and the procurement risk. The tender for the rehabilitation of the hydro plants
and the consultations for the selection of international experts for supporting REGIDESO and
the PIU attracted little interest from the market. It is understood that procurement needs to be
as quick as possible for emergency operations, but the need for speed should not result in
hasty procurement strategy: for the hydro component, it should have been noted that the
equipment was proprietary and open tender was inappropriate, as it was finally concluded
after more than a year of delay. For the supervision TA, the decision to look for an individual
consultant was supposed to speed-up the selection process, but ultimate caused greater delay.
What resulted was scaling down of the design of the hydro rehabilitation component of the
project and the late selection of a supervision engineer with insufficient qualification, putting
the project at risk. The lessons to be learned in this respect are:

           • For emergency operations, the procurement strategy should not be designed
           based on speeding project preparation and avoiding procurement complications,
           but in consideration of shortening the time during project appraisal and
           implementation, even if it requires exceptional procurement procedures such as


                                               24
           sole sourcing for the proprietary hydro equipment or non-traditional procurement
           procedure for the TA component.

           • For technical assistance, the experience in Burundi under the EEP, confirmed
           by experience in other small post-conflict countries, leads to the conclusion that
           attempts to recruit individual experts (generally on short notice) to spend a long
           period of time in the small post-conflict country has little prospect of leading to
           satisfactory results. It would seem more realistic, despite a higher cost, to bundle
           Technical Assistance (TA) operations and to recruit international firms rather than
           individual experts, as engineering or consulting firms are better placed to identify
           and manage long term experts than the client or the Bank itself. This is
           particularly the case in an ‘emergency’ situation.

82.    Particularly for Emergency Operations in fragile countries, for which time is of the
essence, strong technical support would need to be put in place timely to mitigate design and
implementation risks. The role of Owner’s Engineer which is significantly important should
be ensured through international consultant or experienced staff. The engineering capacity of
REGIDESO which carried out the design in particular the civil engineering of the thermal
plant was weak which increased considerably the implementation risk.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

83.    The comments of the GoB and REGIDESO concern: (i) the difficulties experienced
during the installation of the 05MW thermal plant and the rehabilitation of the two existing
hydro power plants; (ii) the performance of the implementing agency regarding the
procurement of these two activities; and (iii) the implementation of the recommendations of
the auditor on the Performance Contract. On the thermal plant, their comments refer to the
fact that the contractor was partly responsible for the installation delay. As per the
assessment of the ICR, the lack of capacity of supervision due to the late hiring of the local
individual consultant, who did not have the required qualification, was the main factor of
delay. On the rehabilitation of hydro plants, it is confirmed that the inaccuracy of cost
estimates was the main problem. The Performance Contract which was established under the
MSWEIP is discussed in the ICR, because the adjustment of tariffs to meet the targets of the
Performance Contract was included in the EEP conditionality. In addition, the EEP
contributed to financing the audits of the Performance Contract. The report of the GoB
(Annex 7) also focuses on achievements which are satisfactory to the GoB and REGIDESO.

(b) Co-financiers

84.    There were no direct co-financiers. The Cooperation of The Netherlands provided
financing for Euro 2.3 million as parallel financing to complement the emergency repairs to
the hydro plants financed by the Bank.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

85.    There were no other partners.




                                             25
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
            Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                                millions)
Component 1: Extension of the
Bujumbura Thermal Generation                     5.0               4.841         96.82%
Plant
Component 2: Rehabilitation of
                                                 3.0               3.588         119.6%
Hydro Power Plants
Component 3: Rehabilitation of
Electricity Transmission and                     1.25              0.968         77.41%
Distribution Network
Component 4: Pre-payment Meters                  1.55              1.378         88.93%
Component 5: Fuel Procurement and
                                                 3.75              4.292        114.48%
support to Project Management
                 Total Baseline Cost           14.55              15.067         98.7%
Physical and Price Contingencies                0.85               0.0            0.0%
Special Account                                                    0.123
                  Total Project Costs          15.40              15.190         98.64%

 (b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                       0.0          0.0   N/A
 IDA                                                           15.40       15.19  98.64




                                                  26
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     This Annex lists the EEP outputs financed on IDA funds.

Component 1: Extension of the Bujumbura Thermal Generation Plant

2.     The EEP financed 6.4MW (as opposed to the 5MW originally envisaged) of high
speed diesel capacity, as the contractor offered to supply four machines of 1.6MW, instead of
the envisaged four machines of 1.25MW, at no additional cost.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of Hydro Power Plants

3       The works executed under EEP were reduced in scope and included only emergency
rehabilitation of the 18MW Rwegura and the 2MW Nyemanga hydro power plants for a total
value of US$3.588 million, because the funds available under the project were insufficient to
finance the full rehabilitation of the hydropower plants. Full rehabilitation will require
additional resources of about Euro 10 million, which are presently being sought by
REGIDESO from other donors.

Component 3: Rehabilitation of Electricity Transmission and Distribution Network

4       The EEP financed priority rehabilitation works on the Bujumbura medium voltage
(MV) distribution system, including (i) rehabilitation works of key RN1 transmission
substation in Bujumbura, that contributed to increasing the distribution voltage level from the
current 6kV to 10kV to improve the quality of supply to five recently connected
neighborhoods in Bujumbura; and (ii) replacement of an old 10MVA 30/6.6kV transformer
of the RN1 substation by a new 30/10kV transformer with the same capacity; as well
associated equipment such as MV switchgears, cables and auxiliaries.

Component 4: Prepayment Meters

5       The EEP financed: (i) the supply and installation of 15,000 pre-payment meters and
software; about 7,650 meters could be installed in Bujumbura’s vicinity and about 7,000 pre-
payment meters (out of 15,000) outside of Bujumbura in areas with internet coverage to
allow the transfer of data to the pre-payment meter managing center (the installation was
executed partly under the project-financed installation contract and partly by REGIDESO on
force account); and (ii) procurement of spare parts for the maintenance of the meters supplied
and installed.

Component 5: Fuel Procurement and support to Project Management

6.      The EEP financed: (i) 3,228,480 liters of diesel oil, of which 2,628,496 liters have
been consumed by the new plants financed under Component 1 of the project, and part by the
existing 5.5MW plant, while the new units financed by the project were completed in August
2013; (ii) storage of 600,000 liters of diesel oil in the Gitega reservoir for consumption in the
project-financed units in the first half of 2014; and (iii) hiring of external experts for financial
management in the PIU and of a local expert for supporting the PIU in the project
implementation supervision.




                                                27
                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis of the Program

1.      A full economic analysis of the program was done at appraisal and showed positive
Net Present Value of investments of 18 percent. The economic analysis is repeated in the
ICR following the same basic methodology, but with updated cost and benefits to reflect the
situation at the time of project closing.

Economic analysis of the proposed project: Economic rate of return

2.      The project achieved a high economic return to the economy of Burundi, which is
suffering from inadequate electricity supply. Lack of power has severely affected the
commercial and industrial sector, with adverse consequences on employment, exports and
prospects for growth. The services rendered by REGIDESO have been inadequate and
declining during the years of crisis due to insufficient investment and neglected maintenance.
Resource constraints meant that REGIDESO was not in a position to either extend service or
to increase its generating capacity in a timely, least-cost manner despite the country’s ample
hydroelectric potential. These issues are all being addressed under the five-year investment
program for the electricity sector.

3.      Given the diverse nature of the physical investments implemented under the EEP
(rehabilitation of hydro plants, additional diesel capacity, repairs to the transmission system,
metering), the revised economic analysis is based on the total investment cost of the EEP
over the four-year period (2011-2014). Assigning specific benefits to particular project
components in such a rehabilitation program would have been both arbitrary and nearly
impossible, as the additional supply resulted from the joint implementation and
complementarity of all project components (generation, transmission and distribution).

4.      The physical benefits from these investments that have been quantified stem from the
value to consumers of the additional electricity supplied following increased generation and
expected reduction of technical losses from rehabilitation of the severely dilapidated network.
It is considered that in the absence of the investment program, the supply of power available
to consumers would have been further constrained and the un-met demand from the grid
would have been higher. Benefits from improved reliability and quality of service have not
been quantified in the economic analysis and represents added benefits brought by the
project.

5.      Burundi is expected to face continuing capacity constraints during the period of the
investment program, until the new hydro projects of Jiji & Mulembwe come on stream after
2017. It is assumed that the high priority repairs to the two hydro plants included in the
project will ensure the reliable operation of the two plants until the full repair program is
implemented, by 2017 (REGIDESO is seeking financing for the long term rehabilitation
program). The benefits of this component were considered for the 2011-2016 period. For the
additional thermal capacity, it is assumed that the 6.4MW units will run 12 hours per day
until 2017, when Jiji & Mulembwe are commissioned, and that the thermal plants will be
transferred to the reserve capacity and run only occasionally during the dry season after this
date. The analysis is therefore based on the assumption that the limited additional supply
made available over the 2011-2017 period is fully consumed, and reduce the active load
shedding done by REGIDESO.

                                              28
6.      The economic benefits of the incremental sales have been estimated on the basis of
the willingness to pay of consumers 5, as a proxy for the economic value to consumers of the
availability of electricity. In the absence of the project, consumers would have suffered
additional shortage of electricity and would have had to use individual generator set as an
alternative (except for some residential consumers who would rather reduce their
consumption than incur the cost of small individual generators). The consumers have been
allocated in two categories:

             a. the productive sector comprising of large industrial and commercial consumers
                that is currently using captive diesel generators (the alternative cost is an
                estimated US$0.28 per kWh; the average cost of running a private generator for
                about 12 hours per day); and

             b. connected households that increase their consumption from the grid due to
                improved availability and reduce the use of small individual generators with a
                generation cost of US$0.72 per kWh.

7.     The added supply is assumed to be distributed 41 percent for residential and 59
percent other categories (present breakdown of demand), but it was considered that as the
cost of available power for residential consumers increases from US$0.11 per kWh
(REGIDESO tariff) to US$0.72 per kWh (cost of generation from small individual generator)
only half of the residential will use small generators, and half of them will reduce their
demand, that is, half of the residential have a willingness to pay above US$0.78 per kWh and
half have a willingness to pay included between US$0.11 and US$0.72 per kWh. The
average willingness to pay of consumers is estimated at US$0.53 per kWh.

8.      The additional production allowed by the project is detailed in Table 1 below,
assuming that in the absence of the investment program, the electricity available to
consumers would have remained at the 2010 level. In 2017, the additional production is due
to the commissioning of the new plants while the emergency thermal capacities are retired.
The year 2017 is therefore not included in the evaluation of the benefits.

                            Table 1: Additional production of the project over the period 2011-2016
                                                 2010    2011    2012       2013       2014        2015        2016        2017    2018    2019
    With the project
               Production (GWh)                    227     230      243          247      262         262         249        261     415     428
               Energy supplied (GWh)               189     199      191          194      206         211         211        223     355     367
    Without the project
               Production (GWh)                    227     227      227          227      227         227         227        227     227     227
               Energy supplied (GWh)               189     189      189          189      189         189         189        189     189     189

              Add. supply of the project (GWh)     -        10          2          5          17          22          22      34     -       -



9.      The economic value of the additional production allowed by the implementation of
the project is the value of the service of electricity supply to the various categories of
consumers. The allocation by category is given in Table 2 below. As explained in para. 6
above, it is assumed that only half of residential consumers would be willing to pay the cost
of an individual generator to have access to electricity. For this category, the benefits have



5
 The willingness to pay was estimated using the same methodology as for the Jiji & Mulembwe project
approved in April 2014.


                                                                            29
been divided by two. For industries and commerce, it is assumed that their willingness to pay
is substantially above the cost of self-generation of US$0.27 per kWh.

     Table 2: Additional consumption allowed by the Project and estimated self-generation in the absence
                                              of the Project
                                                           2010       2011          2012        2013         2014      2015     2016      2017
         With the project
                    Add. Consumption residential GWh           -            4.1          0.8          2.1       7.0       9.0      9.0      13.8
                    Add. Consumption Other GWh                 -            5.9          1.2          3.1      10.1      13.0     13.0      19.8

         Without the project
                   Self-gen residential GWh                    -            2.1          0.4          1.1       3.5       4.5      4.5       6.9
                   Self -gen Other GWh                         -            5.9          1.2          3.1      10.1      13.0     13.0      19.8


10.    The net benefits of the project are detailed below, including in the project cost the
investment cost, the fuel consumption of the additional thermal capacity and the Operation
and Maintenance (O&M) costs over the 2011-2016 period.

                                  Table 3: Cost Benefit Analysis, EIRR and NPV 12 percent
                                                   2010            2011           2012         2013         2014       2015      2016      2017
Cost-benefit analysis
Costs
                    Investment                             0         1.13           4.95         1.80         2.91
                     Fuel cost                                                      1.00         2.00         1.29
               Other operating cost                                  0.40           0.08         0.21         0.68       0.88      0.88       1.34
                  Total Costs                          -             1.53           6.03         4.01         4.88       0.88      0.88       1.34

                   Benefits
                   Residential                         -             1.48           0.30         0.77         2.51       3.25      3.25      4.95
                      Other                            -             1.65           0.33         0.87         2.81       3.63      3.63      5.54
                 Total Benefits                        -             3.13           0.63         1.64         5.33       6.88      6.88     10.49

                 Net benefits                          -            1.60           (5.40)       (2.37)        0.45       6.00      6.00      9.15


           IRR                                       30%
           NPV 12% in million US$                 2.1651


11.     The Project Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 30 percent, substantially
above the 18 percent evaluation at project appraisal. The reason is that in the initial
economic analysis, the benefits to residential consumers were evaluated on the basis of the
REGIDESO’s tariff of US$0.08 per kWh, which underestimated the consumers’ willingness
to pay which is significantly above the 2010 tariff level. The high EIRR was to be expected
in an emergency project. It reflects the emergency nature of the project and the pressing
economic need for bridging generation capacity until the new low cost hydro capacity comes
on stream in 2017 and thereafter.

                         Table 4: Results of EIRR Sensitivity Analysis – at appraisal and ICR
      Parameter                                                       Appraisal                                    ICR
                                                                      EIRR (in %)                                  EIRR (in %)
      Base case                                                       18                                           30%
      Investment costs 20% higher                                     15
      Continued Diesel generation                                     19.1

      Hydro program delayed two years                                 15.6




                                                                             30
Financial analysis of the Program

12.    The financial analysis of the EPP was conducted under two different approaches: (i)
from the stand point of REGIDESO alone; and (ii) from the standpoint of REGIDESO and
the GoB. The difference between the two is that the GoB has agreed to finance the
investment and fuel cost of the new thermal capacity as a subsidy to REGIDESO and the
corresponding amount does not count as a cost to REGIDESO under the first scenario,
whereas it is counted as a cost under the second scenario.

13.     The Project financial analysis shows that from the combined standpoint of
REGIDESO and GoB, the project financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) is -48 percent, as
could be expected, as the production cost of the new thermal capacity including fuel cost is in
excess of US$0.30 per kWh, whereas the tariff, after the 2013 adjustment is US$0.11 per
kWh. The project has a high positive EIRR, demonstrating its importance for the Burundian
economy, despite the high generation cost of diesel oil based thermal generation, as the
economic benefits of availability of electricity far outstrip the cost of thermal generation. But
the negative FIRR explains why the production of the thermal plant will be curtailed as soon
as the future production of Jiji & Mulembwe comes on line.

              Table 5: Project Financial analysis from the combined standpoint of REGIDESO and GoB
                                                           2010        2011           2012           2013          2014       2015      2016          2017
             Cost-benefit analysis
             Costs
                                 Investment                       0          1.13            4.95            1.8       2.91
                                  Fuel cost                                                 1.00           2.00       1.29
                            Other operating cost                          0.40              0.08           0.21       0.68      0.88      0.88          1.34
                               Total Costs                    -           1.53              6.03           4.01       4.88      0.88      0.88          1.34

             Benefits
                                  Residential                 -           0.33              0.07           0.19       0.77      0.99      0.99           -
                                     Other                    -           0.47              0.10           0.28       1.11      1.43      1.43           -
                                Total Benefits                -           0.80              0.16           0.47       1.87      2.42      2.42           -

                                Net benefits                 -           (0.73)            (5.87)      (3.54)        (3.01)     1.54      1.54        (1.34)


                          IRR                             -42%
                          NPV 12% in million US$       -8.1063


14.     From the standpoint of REGIDESO alone, taking into account the subsidization of
diesel fuel and the investment by the GoB, the NPV at 12 percent is US$3.2 million. The
FIRR cannot be calculated, as the net benefits are positive every year.

                         Table 6: Project financial analysis from the standpoint of REGIDESO alone
                                                    2010          2011              2012            2013           2014       2015       2016           2017
  Cost-benefit analysis
  Costs
                      Investment
                       Fuel cost
                 Other operating cost                  -              0.40            0.08            0.21           0.68        0.88          0.88          1.34
                    Total Costs                        -              0.40            0.08            0.21           0.68        0.88          0.88          1.34

  Benefits
                          Residential                  -              0.33            0.07            0.19           0.77        0.99          0.99           -
                             Other                     -              0.47            0.10            0.28           1.11        1.43          1.43           -
                        Total Benefits                 -              0.80            0.16            0.47           1.87        2.42          2.42           -

                        Net benefits                   -              0.40            0.08            0.26           1.19       1.54       1.54          (1.34)


               IRR                                 N/A
               NPV 12% in million US$               3.0198


                                                                              31
REGIDESO’s Financial Analysis

15.     The financial analysis of REGIDESO considers the present situation of the company
and its medium term financial prospects over the 2014-2025 period.

16.     The overall financial performance of REGIDESO (combined water and electricity
operations) has progressively improved since 2011 following increases in water and
electricity tariffs in September, 2011 and March, 2012. Water and electricity tariffs were
previously revised in May 2007. Prior to the last two tariff increases, the utility’s financial
performance and its financial position were weak. Financial restructuring of REGIDESO’s
balance sheet as at December 31, 2008 was undertaken to clear or write-off overdue accounts
of the Government, REGIDESO’s unpaid import bills of SNEL (National Power Utility in
Democratic Republic of the Congo) and SINELAC and loans related to investments financed
by donors. Import bills of SNEL and SINELAC up to 2007 were settled by GoB and nothing
was paid between 2008 and 2010. REGIDESO started paying for its import bills from
January, 2011 onwards and the overdue bills of SNEL were cleared by September, 2012 and
the SINELAC debt is expected to be cleared by end 2014.

17.     REGIDESO as a whole made a net profit after tax of FBu 5,791 million (US$3.8
million) in 2013, confirming the improvement observed in 2012, when the result before taxes
was FBu 3,522 million (US$2.4 million). It compares favorably with the net losses of
FBu547 million (US$0.4 million) and FBu 767 million (US$0.6 million) in 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The financial results take account of the World Bank subsidies towards fuel
costs for thermal power generation and GoB support for the rental of 10MW of additional
diesel thermal capacity, of FBu 6,298 million (US$4.2 million) in 2013. In 2012,
Government subsidies amounted to FBu 869 million (US$0.6 million), and in 2011 the
subsidies amounted to FBu 6,679 million (US$5.1 million) and FBu 4,298 million (US$3.5
million) in 2010. The persistence of subsidies reflect the need of the Government to deploy
emergency high cost thermal capacity (10MW rentals, 6.4MW under the EEP) to avoid
unacceptable power shortages due to inability to engage investment in lower cost hydro
power in due time. This situation is projected to be terminated by 2017-2018 when the
additional capacity of Jiji & Mulembwe comes on stream.

18.    REGIDESO’s combined water and electricity operations generated net cash inflows
of FBu 12,839 million (US$8.5 million) compared to FBu 2,754 million (US$1.9 million) in
2012 and FBu 3,005 million (US$2.3 million) in 2011. Without subsidies, the utility would
have generated net cash inflows of FBu 6,540 million (US$4.3 million) compared to FBu
1,885 million (US$1.3 million) in 2012.

19.     The financial performance indicators of REGIDESO have improved over the past
three years. Based on the utility’s financial statements, the current ratio has improved to 6.5
times in 2013 compared to 3.5 times as of December 31, 2012 (2.6 times at end 2011) and the
debt/equity ratio in the last two balance sheet dates were low and ranged between 1 percent
and 13 percent as the long term debt of REGIDESO has been cancelled in 2013.

20.    REGIDESO has a strong liquidity situation, with FBu 20,931 billion (US$13.9
million) in liquidities available in banks as of end-2013.

21.    Network Losses: Overall transmission and distribution (T&D) losses averaged 19.5
percent over the three years 2009-12. REGIDESO’s annual report for 2012 states that the

                                              32
losses were in the range of 24 percent and a similar level is expected in 2013. It is estimated
that about 40 percent of overall losses can be attributed to technical losses. Metering is
considered to be average; as at times meters get locked when power voltage is low and
electricity consumption goes unrecorded (approximately 2-3 percent of losses can be
attributed to this). Revenue lost and uncollected for every one percent of T&D losses is
estimated at FBu 349 million (US$0.226 million), based on the estimated present tariffs and
the average collection rate of 84.1 percent.

22.     Billing Collection: The billing collection rate has varied considerably over recent
years. The average collection rate in 2012 (2013 is not available yet) has worsened
considerably and it is not clear if this reflects the true underlying performance or whether the
figures are distorted due to the inaccuracies of the statistics generated by an unreliable billing
system. The overall billing collection rates (based on current year billing) for both water and
electricity over the past four years are indicated in the following table.
             Table 7: Billing Collection Rates 2010-2012 - Water and Electricity Combined
                                                       2010      2011     2012 Average
              As per financial statements data        90.7%    88.3%     73.1%     84.1%
              As per technical audit                  92.1%    82.3%     76.0%     83.5%


23.     The deterioration in the billing collection performance over the past three years is a
cause for concern. The performance should be improving, especially since the proportion of
electricity prepayment billing has doubled to 32.4 percent since 2010. The large increases in
both water and electricity tariffs in September, 2011 and March, 2012 (cumulatively 140
percent for water and 70 percent for electricity) may have contributed to the decline in the
collection performance.

24.     Present tariffs will be adequate to meet REGIDESO's projected revenue requirements
over the next few years. GoB support/subsidies towards thermal costs may not be required
after 2014, but moderate tariff increase in nominal terms will be needed by 2017 (18 percent),
2021 when IPPs come on stream (25 percent) and 2024 (10 percent) when more IPPs are
commissioned. The actual weighted average electricity revenue increased from FBu 101 per
kWh (US$0.082 per kWh) in 2010 to FBu 110 per kWh (US$0.085 per kWh) in 2011 and
FBu 152 per kWh (US$0.11 per kWh) in 2012 and 2013.

Outlook to 2025

25.     REGIDESO’s financial prospects for its electricity operations over the next eleven
years to 2025 will be largely dictated by the following: (a) demand growth and sources and
costs of power supply; (b) capital investments and financing thereof; (c) electricity tariff
gradual adjustment; (d) operating costs; (e) efficiency improvements in network losses,
billing collection and operating costs; and (f) borrowing terms for new debt secured for
investments.

26.     In view of capacity constraints, the underlying electricity demand up to 2015 will not
be fully met. On this basis, demand grew by about 3 percent and 4.9 percent in 2013 and
2014 respectively, and is projected to decline by 5.0 percent in 2015. The projected capacity
additions in 2016/17 will lead to high demand growth of 20 percent in 2018 and 25 percent in
2019, catching-up with deferred connections and unserved demand. Thereafter, the annual
demand growth is forecast to range between 10.3 percent and 12.3 percent.


                                                 33
27.     Peak demand and energy sent out in Burundi is projected to grow from 54MW and
243GWh in 2013 to 204MW and 925GWh by 2025. Available energy supply based on the
sector generation expansion plan is allocated to meet Burundi’s demand and little exports are
envisaged.

28.    Transmission losses are assumed to remain constant throughout the forecast period
(estimated at five percent). Distribution losses, as a percentage of bulk supply, are forecast to
decrease from the assumed present level of 15.7 percent by 0.25 percent each year starting
2014. On this basis, the overall transmission and distribution losses for Burundi supply are
expected decline from the present 19.9 percent to 17.1 percent by 2025.

29.    REGIDESO’s forecast revenue requirements over the next three to four years will
remain high as long as long it has to rely on thermal power supply. This situation is forecast
to continue through to 2017 before cheaper donor funded hydro plants (Jiji, Kabu16 and
Mulembwe) come on line from late 2017 to 2019.

30.     REGIDESO’s forecast annual revenue requirements are expected to increase from
FBu 16.3 billion (US$11.2 million) in 2012 to FBu 38 billion (US$25 million) in 2015.
Revenue requirements in 2016 and 2017 are expected to increase to FBu 46 billion (US$30
million) and FBu 49 billion (US$32 million) respectively. In the subsequent three years, the
revenue requirements are forecast to reach FBu 73 billion (US$48 million) in 2018, FBu 76
billion (US$51 million) in 2019, FBu 91 billion (US$61 million) in 2020. The annual
requirements in the subsequent five years are expected to increase gradually to FBu 225
billion (US$150 million) by 2025.

31.      The base case forecast revenue requirements, electricity revenues (based on present
tariffs) and revenue surpluses/shortfalls of REGIDESO’s electricity operations, together with
a proposed financing plan are summarized below. Government support towards thermal
costs will not be required from 2015 onwards.

32.     REGIDESO will be in a position to meet its operational and other requirements from
the projected revenues. The projected net cash in hand is positive and increasing throughout.
The debt service burden is forecast to increase dramatically over the next few years, as
indicated in the table. Annual debt service requirements are expected to rise considerably
from 2019 onwards as ongoing and new debt mature for debt service payments. The annual
debt service payments are forecast to grow from US$1.3 million in 2018 to US$29 million by
2025.




                                               34
Projected Income Statement 2013 to 2025




                  35
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 2013-2025




     Projected Financial Performance indicators




                           36
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

    Names                                 Title                       Unit
    Lending
    Erik Fernstrom                        Senior Energy Specialist    AFTEG
    Vonjy Rakotondramanana                Energy Specialist           AFTEG
    Peggy Mischke                         Energy Specialist           AFTEG
    Mathewos Woldu                        Senior Economist            AFTU2
    Astrid Manroth                        Senior Energy Specialist    AFTEG
    Déo Marcel Niyungeko                  Senior Municipal Engineer   AFTU2
    Satoru Ueda                           Lead Water Resources        AFTUW
                                          Specialist
    Helene Bertaud                        Senior Counsel              LEGAF
    Jean Paul Feno                        Environmental Specialist    AFTEN
    Abdoul Wahab Seyni                    Social Development          ASPEN
                                          Specialist
    Sylvain Rambeloson                    Senior Procurement          AFTPR
                                          Specialist
    Melance Ndikumasabo                   Procurement Specialist      AFTPR
    Emmanuel Sinzohagera                  Financial Management        AFTFM
                                          Specialist
    Bella Lelouma Diallo                  Financial Management        AFTFM
                                          Specialist
    Wolfgang Chadab                       Senior Finance Officer      CTRFC
    Aissatou Diallo                       Finance Officer             CTRFC
    Anta Loum Lo                          Language Program            AFTEG
                                          Assistant
    Clarette Rwagatore                    Program Assistant           AFMBI
    Supervision/ICR
    Erik Fernstrom                        Senior Energy Specialist    AFTG2
    Peggy Mischke                         Energy Specialist           AFTEG
    Kyran O’Sullivan                      Senior Energy Specialist    AFTG1
    Vonjy Rakotondramanana                Energy Specialist           AFTG1
    Mathewos Woldu                        Senior Economist            AFTU2
    Astrid Manroth                        Senior Energy Specialist    AFTEG
    Déo Marcel Niyungeko                  Senior Municipal Engineer   AFTU2
    Fabrice Bertholet                     Senior Finance Analyst      AFTG2
    Hélène Bertaud                        Senior Counsel              LEGAF
    Sara Nso                              Consultant                  AFTG1
    Jean Paul Feno                        Senior Environmental        AFTEN
                                          Specialist
    Nneoma Veronica Nwogu                 Counsel                     LEGAF
    Abdoul Wahab Seyni                    Social Development          ASPEN
                                          Specialist
    Sylvain Rambeloson                    Senior Procurement          AFTPR
                                          Specialist

                                     37
     Melance Ndikumasabo                        Procurement Specialist       AFTPR
     Bella Lelouma Diallo                       Senior Financial             AFTFM
                                                Management Specialist
     Wolfgang Chadab                            Senior Finance Officer       CTRFC
     Aissatou Diallo                            Finance Officer              CTRFC
     Anta Loum Lo                               Senior Program Assistant     AFTEG
     Clarette Rwagatore                         Program Assistant            AFMBI
     Pacifique Ndoricimpa                       Program Assistant            AFMBI
     Thanh Lu Ha                                Senior Program Assistant     AFTG1
     Ananda Covindassamy                        Consultant                   AFTG1
     Jean Owino                                 Finance Analyst              CTRLA

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                    Staff time and cost (BB only)
           Stage of project cycle   No. of staff weeks    US$ thousands
                                                          (including travel and
                                                          consultant costs)
           Lending
           FY10                             1.23                  3,236.45
           FY11                            31.95                 39,912.06
           Total                           33.18                 43,148.51
           Supervision/ICR
           FY12                            39.32                119,601.58
           FY13                            16.16                 58,618.61
           FY14                            11.58                 44,139.06
           Total                           67.06                222,359.25




                                           38
                            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.     A beneficiary survey was carried out by the PIU in REGIDESO. The summary of the
conclusions of the survey is given below.

2.     As part of the evaluation of project impact on beneficiaries, REGIDESO conducted a
survey focused on four issues, namely: (a) the perception by customers of changes in
accessibility and reliability of the electricity supply; (b) knowledge by the beneficiaries, if the
change was perceived, of the cause of this change, particularly if it could be attributed to
PURSE or other origin; (c) assessing the level and quality of this change; and (d)
recommendations that beneficiaries could make to REGIDESO to ensure the sustainability of
the benefits of the project.

   Sample Survey

3.    The survey was conducted among 259 households in the communes of Kinama (63
households); Kamenge (64 households); Rohero (71 households); Buyenzi (56 households);
and Ngagara / Industrial Area (5 homes).

4.     The survey covered 78 households (30 percent of the sample) and 181 small
businesses or 70 percent of the sample.

   Relationship of respondents with REGIDESO

5.      The 259 respondents to the survey are all subscribers to REGIDESO. However, only
159 felt they needed essential electrical energy in their daily lives; 50 occasionally and 15 can
do without. It follows that 75 percent of our sample population has a fairly strong
relationship with REGIDESO and is therefore affected by its operation.

   Knowledge of EEP by respondents

6.     Very few respondents (27 percent) are aware of the EEP, even if 93 percent believe
they have seen the achievements of the project in their environment. 57.5 percent ignore the
role played by the World Bank in the Project. This leads to the conclusion that a
communication effort needs to be done by the project.

   From the assessment of the system of prepayment meter

7.      The population of the survey has 57 people with a subscription to pre-payment meters,
of less than one year (22 percent); 50 people with a subscription for more than one year (19.3
percent); 46 people with a subscription of 2 years (17.8 percent ) and 69 persons (26.6
percent) with a subscription for more than 3 years. If this configuration may suggest that the
majority of respondents received pre-payment meter from other sources than the EEP, given
the age of their subscription, it is nevertheless true that their views can inform the commercial
department of REGIDESO on this service.

8.      It appears that 68 percent of the sample found the situation with pre-payment meters
satisfactory and 58 percent very good, and excellent. In contrast, people affected by
repetitive failures of meters (22 percent of the sample) consider that the situation is worse


                                                39
than before. In particular, the previous system allowed highly appreciated flexibility with
payment deadline.

9.     For people satisfied overall (175 persons or 67.7 percent), the reasons given stem
from two main factors namely better control of consumption for 138 people (53 percent of
the sample), and a reduction in losses (the invoice being closer to the reality of consumption
(28 respondents or 10.8 percent of the sample)). Among those who believe they have
economized on their consumption (131 households or 50.6 percent of the sample), 81
households (31 percent) think they have realized savings between 5 and 10 percent, 30
households ( 11 percent) between 10 and 20 percent savings, and 20 households (7 percent)
savings of over 20 percent.

      From the accessibility and reliability of electric power

10.     The survey reveals that 90 percent felt an improvement in the availability of
electricity. Nevertheless, the population surveyed is not well informed of the cause and
origin of this improvement. Only 29 percent claim to know the cause. 90 percent of
respondents enjoy improved power supply. A marginal number claim that the situation is the
same or worse than before.

11.    As regards the reasons for satisfaction, the most important cause of satisfaction is the
improved storage of products and lower losses of food. Factors such as safety and comfort
seem to be less important.

      Knowledge of operation of the thermal power plant

12.     The survey determined that 161 (62.2 percent) of the customers knew of the existence
of the new power plant as against 98 persons (37 percent) who were unaware of its existence.

      Involvement of the population in the sustainability of services to clients

13.    The survey sought to determine whether customers were willing to participate in the
improvement of services by accepting a tariff increase. The question was: "To allow
REGIDESO to invest in the improvement and expansion of services, it is essential that tariffs
cover operating expenses, do you want them to be reviewed?".

14.      The response can be interpreted as follows:

      • A small majority (55 percent) is fiercely hostile to the revision of tariffs. However,
      45 percent support a revision of tariffs under certain conditions including spacing in
      frequency (10 percent); explanation of the reasons for tariff revisions (22 percent); and
      provided a more equitable tariff between different categories of customers is enforced (12
      percent).

      • Clearly, the beneficiary population has seen changes in the accessibility of electricity.
      Even if it does not always understand the origins and causes of this change, it knows it
      has profited from the situation in terms of cost reduction and lower invoice. It feels ready
      to participate in the development of these services through accepting tariff increases,
      under the, conditions that the increase is explained, spread out over time and equitable
      between different categories of customers.

                                                40
                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                      41
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The borrower’s ICR was prepared by the EEP PIU in REGIDESO in January 2014.
The executive summary contained in the borrower ICR is presented here, translated from
French by the Bank.

2.     The Emergency Energy Project (EEP) achieved moderately satisfactory results.

3.      The rehabilitation of the hydro plants Rwegura and Nyemanga helped in the
resumption of production close to the installed capacity, pending the second phase of
rehabilitation supported by funding from the Dutch Government and other donors being
identified. This, combined with the rehabilitation of the HV and MV systems under the
MSWEIP contributed significantly to improve the reliability of service of REGIDESO,
drastically reducing involuntary cuts of electricity supply. The number of interruptions
which was 51 has been reduced to 20. However, the reliability of services will actually be
achieved after the rehabilitation of the network in the city of Bujumbura, which represents 80
percent of the energy consumed.

4.      Similarly, the acquisition of a new thermal power plant of 5 MW has increased the
share of thermal energy in the generation mix of the company and helped to partially reduce
the deficit from hydropower generation. Indeed, it was found that the number of hours of use
of the thermal energy has risen sharply, from 56 to 140 hours per week when the Rwegura
hydro plant was experiencing problems as a group was being repaired and the water level in
the dam reservoir was low.

5.      This demonstrates the positive role played by the urgent acquisition under the EEP of
the thermal power plant in stabilizing the supply of energy and in facilitating the maintenance
of other generation facilities of the company.

6.       In terms of management, it should be noted that the Project has been carried out
satisfactorily. The key provisions of the various project agreements were implemented,
except for certain minor conditions, such as the compliance with the financial covenants, the
tariff adjustment or operation of the internal control.

7.     The various functions of the project management system worked correctly in the spirit
of the Agreement. The disbursement rate of the project has been satisfactory, after an initial
period of stagnation, due to delays in the implementation of some components.

8.      According to a perception survey of 259 persons of which 70 percent consisted of
commercial units, 90 percent reported improvement in the availability and reliability of
electric power; more than 70 percent of respondents find a substantial improvement.
Approximately 31 percent of respondents felt that the pre-payment meters have allowed them
to save 5-10 percent of their budget on electricity consumption, while 11percent think the
economy is between 10 and 20 percent.

9.      At the end of the Project, the main components such as the construction of the thermal
power plant or the rehabilitation of hydropower plants have been conducted and completed at
least for the first stage of rehabilitation of the hydro plants.



                                              42
10.     Delivery of all the fuel provided for the operation of the power plant (2,228,480 liters
after an extension for an additional 396,480 liters) is not yet fully completed. There were still
967,093 liters to be delivered in early 2014. 367,093 liters will be used in the new plant of 5
MW and the old 5.5 MW plant of REGIDESO during the current month of January.
Arrangement has been found in order to store the remaining amount in the oil in Gitega, for
use during the months of February and March.

11.     It should be noted that due to the late start of the installation of prepayment meters, it
is not yet possible to identify accurately the contribution of this component to improving the
bill recovery rate of REGIDESO. Although this contribution is indisputable, its magnitude
will depend on the number of meters ultimately installed. In view of the deterioration of the
recovery rate which is 81.3 percent against 85 percent targeted in the project document; it is
urgent to disseminate these meters especially to governments and municipalities where the
recovery rate rarely exceeds 20 percent. To date, approximately 7,650 meters out of 15,000
have been installed making the implementation rate of the installation contract of 51 percent.
At the same time, it was noted that the number of conventional meters to be replaced in
Bujumbura is lower than the number of meters ordered under the EEP. This raises the issue
of management of the meter installation contract. Even though an amendment to the
installation contract could be introduced to extend the installation of pre-payment meters
outside the capital, the absence of a management system in these areas is a problem. In any
event, it is the responsibility of REGIDESO to continue after the negotiation of an
amendment of the contract, the installation of the remaining meters after training and
motivation of the staff in the IT department.

12.    After the successful partial rehabilitation of the hydropower plants, the acquisition of
a thermal power plant, fuel delivery, part of which (600,000 liters) will be stored in Gitega;
the remaining issue concerns the sustainability aspect of the project, specifically the
prepayment meters component. In spite of the training organized by the supplier of the
equipment for maintenance and because of the existence of a material flaw; maintenance of
these devices is a very sensitive problem. On the one hand, the training for knowledge of the
mode of operation of this equipment on and for the mastery of the repair of the electronic
components was very limited; on the other hand, it is worth noting the absence of a team
within REGIDESO responsible for repair and detection of defects. Training sessions should
be considered by the supplying company in the region to master maintenance and ensure the
sustainability of this project component.

13.    In addition, the project has exposed malfunction in the database of holders of
prepayment meters (identifying a need for 15,000 meters whereas the actual need is around
7,000 in Bujumbura). The data base management system will be revised as needed.




                                               43
       Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There was no co-financing.




                                      44
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are in the project file:

   •       Project Appraisal Document (September 16, 2010).
   •       Financing Agreement (December 1, 2010).
   •       Project Agreement (December 1, 2010)
   •       Project aide-memoires (six).
   •       BTORs
   •       Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs sequence 1-6, 2011-2013).
   •       Annual progress reports (2010-2013).
   •       Mid-term Review Report (May, 2013).
   •       Government Implementation Completion Report (January 2014).




                                             45
MAP (IBRD33380)




      46
