 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14877

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 10/30/2015

               Country: Burundi
             Project ID: P122217                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Burundi - Emergency           Project Costs (US$M):                      15.40                 15.19
                         Energy Project From
                         Ida Crw
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       15.40                 15.19
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                              09/30/2010
                                                                 Closing Date:            01/31/2014        01/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Thermal Power Generation (34%); Hydropower (21%); Transmission and Distribution of
                           Electricity (20%); Oil and gas (17%); Public administration- Energy and mining (8%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (90%); Rural services and
                           infrastructure (10%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo         Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

"The project's development objective (PDO) was to improve the capacity and reliability of electricity generation,
transmission, and distribution" [Financing Agreement (FA), p.6]. The above PDO was identical to the one stated in
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)on page 9, para 30.

Key outcome indicators were: (i) the reliability of the electricity supply measured by the reduction of the average
unplanned interruptions frequency in Bujumbura (number/year); and (ii) the increased and diversified access to
electricity through the increase in direct project beneficiaries (number),of which female (%).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

The project had five components as detailed below:

Component 1 - Extension of the Bujumbura Thermal Generation Plant (Costs at appraisal of US $5 million; Actual
costs of US$4.8 million): This component aimed to increase thermal generation capacity of the electricity facility
(REGIDESO) and improve fuel management in the Project Implementing Entity's existing diesel-fueled 5.5 MW
thermal generation plant in Bujumbura, through the supply and installation of diesel engines as well as associated
electromechanical equipment and critical spare parts, and the installation of an accurate fuel metering system.

Component 2 - Rehabilitation of Hydro Power Plants (Costs at appraisal of US $3 million; Actual costs of US $3.6
million): This component was to support the upgrading, renovation, modernization and operation of the REGIDESO's
hydropower plants in Rwegura and Nyemanga, through: (i) the replacement or refurbishment of mechanical
equipment including, inter alia, cooling system, and associated equipment; (ii) the replacement or refurbishing of
electrical equipment including, inter alia, alternators, control and regulation system, protection system, medium
voltage equipment; and (iii) the availability of spare parts.

Component 3 - Rehabilitation of Electricity Transmission and Distribution Network
(Costs at appraisal of US $1.25 million: Actual costs of US $1.0 million): This component was to improve the quality of
power supply, especially in the Bujumbura area, through the rehabilitation and expansion of REGIDESO's medium
voltage transmission and distribution system including, inter alia, the upgrade of the distribution voltage level from 6
kV to 10 kV, and the replacement of the transformer and associated equipment to rehabilitate and expand
sub-transmission substations, especially in the capital city area.

Component 4 - Pre-payment Meters (Costs at appraisal of US $1.55 million; Actual costs of US $1.4 million): The
fourth component intended to improve the management of billing, arrears and payments by REGIDESO and of
electricity consumption by its customers, through the supply and installation of payment meters.

Component 5 - Fuel Procurement and support to Project Management (Costs at appraisal of US $3.75 million; Actual
costs of US$4.3 million): The fifth component aimed to support (i) the Project Implementing Entity's gradual
adaptation to increased production costs and its implementation of tariff adjustments over two years; and (ii) the
Project Implementing Entity's and the Recipient's institutional strengthening, including in management, procurement
and execution of contracts.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Cost: Total project costs at appraisal were US$15.4 million. Actual costs supported by the Bank were equal to
US$15.19 or 99 percent of the approved amount.

Financing: This was an emergency recovery grant, prepared under the OP/BP 8.00 rapid response procedures. The
Bank grant, equal to US$15.4 million, covered all project costs, and 99 percent of the grant resources were disbursed.


Borrower Contribution : No Borrower contribution was identified at appraisal and no actual contribution was reported
in the ICR.

Dates: Approved by the Bank’s Board on September, 30, 2010, the project became effective on February 23, 2011,
and closed on schedule on January 31, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

When the project was launched in 2010, Burundi was facing a major electricity sector crisis stemming from (i) the
increase in electricity demand following the return of refugees and investments in capital area had exhausted the
country's limited power supply capacity; and (ii) the fact that the country's electricity transmission and distribution
system was dilapidated due to destruction and lack of investments during the past 13 years of civil war. The initiation
of the Emergency Energy Project (EEP) project was triggered by the power supply crises that occurred in the dry
seasons of 2009 and 2010 in Burundi, during which REGIDESO lost 40 percent of its generation and supply capacity
in the capital city area. The power shortages affected the water supply system, hospitals, and public services, and
without adequate response, the experienced electricity crisis could have provoked high socioeconomic cost or even a
humanitarian crisis.

The EEP was also consistent with the Burundi’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of September 2006,
which was a post-conflict document, emphasizing governance and security; sustainable and equitable economic
growth; development of human capital; and combating HIV/AIDS. The paper also underscored that the absence of the
most basic services such as water supply was a major threat to the consolidation of peace that needed to be
addressed. The EEP was also in line with the GoB’s power sector strategy in the short to medium term, which aimed
to: (i) increase thermal electricity generation capacity; (ii) develop national hydro power resources as well as other
renewable energy resources; (iii) rehabilitate the national power grid and distribution services ; and (iv) strengthen
REGIDESO’s financial and operational performance.
The EEP was designed to quickly address some of the main risks of power system failure and lack of supply, and
therefore met the objective of International Development Association (IDA) Crisis Response Window (CRW), which
was to assist, inter alia, countries in implementing programs aimed to provide financial assistance to protect core
spending on health, education, social safety nets, infrastructure, and agriculture. The IDA CRW fully financed this
emergency operation with grant resources, which was in line with country priorities, and was consistent with the Bank
instruments.

The EEP was also consistent with the Bank's CAS for the period FY 2009-12, which provided the framework for
World Bank Group support to Burundi and focused on two strategic objectives: (i) promote sustainable and
broad-based economic growth; and (ii) improve access to social services and consolidate social stability, with
governance as a cross-cutting CAS objective. The EEP was to contribute to both CAS objectives by improving
access to reliable electricity services, and to restore essential basic services, such as water supply, health and public
services. The project objective was still relevant when the project closed, as confirmed by the last CAS FY2014-16,
which continues to underscore the need to promote growth , and improve services delivery to the people.

In all, the relevance of objective of the project was high, because it was a response to a borrower's emergency, which
was well enshrined in the country's PRSP, the country's power sector policy , and the Bank's CAS.



b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

The 2010 EEP was launched as an emergency project to (i) respond to the urgent need to install additional thermal
capacity and to rehabilitate existing hydro plants which were not covered under the 2008 Multi-Sector Water and
Energy Infrastructure Project (MSWEIP) in order to reduce power outages; and (ii) to continue the rehabilitation of
networks to increase the reliability of the system. Regarding electricity, the MSWEIP mainly financed (i) the setting up
and the monitoring of the performance contract between REGIDESO and the Government of Burundi; (ii) the
rehabilitation of networks (iii) the installation of prepaid meters to improve the collection rate, and (iv) key studies such
as prefeasibility studies of potential hydro sites and tariff study necessary for the development of the sector.

The EEP was funded under the IDA's Crisis Response Window, and the project design was influenced by the special
context of a post-conflict country, as well as limited funding made available by the IDA window. The components of
the project were realistic, because they derived from the Government's request aimed at addressing urgent energy
needs in the capital city. However, the objective and the outcomes of an emergency project did not need to be
broad-based and far-reaching as they were. The emergency character of the project was not well reflected in the
statement of the project objective, and the selection of the outcomes. While the objective and outcomes could have
been better identified and stated, there was no inconsistency between the stated objectives, the components and the
outcomes of the project.

The project's results framework was adequate and concise (Tables 3&4 of the PAD). Besides the defined objective
and the identified components and activities, it was comprised of 3 outcome indicators, and 6 intermediate indicators,
and arrangements for results monitoring were adequate. Overall, there was a coherence between the objective,
expected outcomes, outputs and identified indicators. However, the activities under component 5           (Support to
project management) were not well reflected in the outcome indicators, despite their importance and substantial
resources allocated to the component. A major consequence of this was that there were shortcomings in
strengthening the Implementing unit, and in advancing the structural reforms.

A number of risks were identified in the PAD, including (i) the financial viability of REGIDESO,(ii) the lack of
implementation capacity, and (iii) drought. Key risks included the weaknesses in the civil engineering design of the
project, under-estimation of the cost and technically necessary scope of the hydro rehabilitation, and complications in
the implementation of the prepayment meter component. Mitigating measures to the above risks were developed
under the MSWEIP which was implemented in parallel to the EEP.

In all, while there were some flaws in the statement of the objective and the choice of the outcomes, and the definition
of the indicators of progress in strengthening the PIU, the quality of the project design was good, risks were mitigated
and relevance of design is rated as Substantial.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
Substantial

"The project's development objective (PDO) was to improve the capacity and reliability of electricity generation,
transmission, and distribution."

Outcome:
Reliability of the electricity supply : The frequency of power interruptions in Bujumbura was to be reduced from 51 per
year to 30 per year. The performance by the end of the project in 2014 was 46, due to interruptions in the
transmission line from SINELAC, a regional electricity-generating company common to Burundi, Rwanda and DRC,
which is supplying a fluctuating share of the Burundi electricity consumption. Excluding these incidents, the frequency
would have been about 20, as was the case in June 2013. Overall, the review considers that the target was partially
achieved.
Increased and diversified access to electricity : The number of connections per year was to increase from 3,000 to
4,700 per year at appraisal, but it reached 9,000 by 2013. The number of project beneficiaries, which was to increase
from 270,000 to 318,000 by end 2013. The target was exceeded, as some 456,552 persons were connected at the
end of the project and benefitted from electricity of better quality than without the project. The achievement of the
proportion of female beneficiaries is 100%, but the achievement in terms of gross number of female beneficiaries is
143%.

Outputs:
Generation capacity from conventional energy . The target of 10.5MW was exceeded, with a present installed
capacity of 21.9MW, from a baseline of 5.5MW, plus the project addition of 6.4MW, and 10MW of rented capacity.
Without the 10MW rental, the generation capacity would have been 11.9MW, still exceeding the 10.5MW target. The
high level of achievement is due to the implementation of the project, and also to the installation of 10MW of rented
thermal capacity. Availability of power supply from the thermal plants in hours per week reached 156, significantly
above the target of 56 hours per week, from a baseline of zero.

Rehabilitation of hydro-power plants: The performance achieved was on target at 20MW of renewable energy
rehabilitated, against a baseline of 0. While the renewable energy capacity rehabilitated was on target, the sustai
nability of the rehabilitation was less than envisaged as only short term rehabilitations were undertaken. Further
rehabilitation was achieved following additional financing from the Netherlands.

Rehabilitation of electricity transmission and distribution network : Achievements included: (i) the rehabilitation works
of key transmission substation that contributed to increasing the distribution voltage level from the current 6kV to 10kV
to improve the quality of supply to five recently connected neighborhoods in Bujumbura; and (ii) replacement of an old
10MVA 30/6.6kV transformer of the RN1 substation by a new 30/10kV transformer with the same capacity; as well as
associated equipment such as MV switchgears, cables and auxiliaries.

Installation of pre -payment meters: From a baseline of 10,000, the target was 43,000, to be purchased under the
Multi-Sector Water and Energy Infrastructure Project (MSWEIP), the EEP and by REGIDESO. The number of
pre-payment meters installed in total by the end of the EEP was 44,321, including 7,650 meters installed under the
EEP. An additional 2,300 meters, already delivered, are being installed. The target was exceeded, although
pre-payment meters purchased under the project was not completely installed.

Fuel procurement and support to project management : Achievements included (i) the purchase of 3,228,480 liters of
diesel oil, consumed by the new plants financed under Component 1 of the project, and by the existing 5.5MW plant;
(ii) the storage of 600,000 liters of diesel oil in the Gitega reservoir for consumption in the project-financed units in the
first half of 2014; and (iii) the hiring of external experts for financial management in the PIU and of a local expert for
supporting the PIU in the project implementation supervision.
There were shortcomings including (i) underperformance of REGIDESO in terms of improving bill collection efficiency,
(ii) the failure to implement the fuel pass-through mechanism, and (ii) the failure to install a reliable management
system, to develop the right regulation, staff motivation and improved governance. Linked to the above, the achieved
electricity collection rate was 64 percent against a target was 85 percent. This intermediate outcome indicator was not
fully achieved, but the performance did not depend mainly on the installation of pre-payment meters, but also on the
performance of the implementing unit.

Overall, reliability of the electricity supply improved in 2013, although an unexpected incident reduced outcome
achievement by the project closure, but increased and diversified access to electricity occurred. Major output targets
were achieved or surpassed, including (i) the rehabilitation of HV and MV substations,(ii) installation and operation of
generation capacity, and (iii) rehabilitation of renewable energy-based generation equipment. At the same time,
installation of pre-paid electricity meters was partially achieved, and there were management shortcomings in the
functioning of the Electricity Facility. The electricity rehabilitation works financed by the project considerably improved
the reliability and quality of supply and reduced outage times in the national grid, as evidenced by REGIDESO’s
statistics, and the result of the Consumer Survey.


5. Efficiency:

Modest
Economic and financial efficiency : Although this was an emergency project, a full economic and financial analysis
was carried out at project appraisal, presumably to ensure the buy-in and participation of external donors. A similar
analysis was carried out at project completion using the same methodology, with updated numbers and revised
assumptions. The results from the project completion analysis show that actual Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) is about 30 percent, against 18 percent at appraisal. However, calculations at appraisal were based on all
investments (Government and other donors) in the power sector, while at completion only the EEP investments were
considered, making the comparison inadequate. The improved EIRR is principally due to the resulting combination of
increased electricity generation and a refined quantification of the economic benefits based on consumers’ willingness
to pay. The economic benefits of the incremental sales have been estimated on the basis of the willingness to pay of
consumers, as a proxy for the economic value to consumers of the availability of electricity. In the absence of the
project, consumers would have suffered additional shortages of electricity and would have had to use individual
generator sets as an alternative.

The ICR indicates (para. 60) that the willingness to pay in Burundi is high, as evidenced by the frequent use of
individual generators with a cost of generation in excess of US$0.53/kWh compared to a cost of production of the
large thermal unit financed under the project of US$ 0.25/kWh. The efficiency of subsidies to the thermal plant was
high, because, without a short-term solution to the energy crunch, the tariff would have been increased.

However, calculations from the project financial analysis show that a negative project financial Internal Rate of Return
(FIRR) i.e. - 48 percent, as the production cost of the new thermal capacity including fuel cost is in excess of US$0.30
per kWh, whereas the tariff, after the 2013 adjustment is US$0.11 per kWh. The project has a positive EIRR,
demonstrating its importance for the Burundian economy, despite the high generation cost of diesel oil based thermal
generation, but the negative FIRR explains why the production of the thermal plant will be curtailed as soon as the
future production comes on line.

Administrative and institutional efficiency : The ICR did not conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the project to
complement the economic and financial analysis, but overall, project resources were used in a cost-effective manner,
given that a previous water and electricity project had put in place adequate implementing arrangements. There were
some inefficiencies arising from the emergency nature of the project, and the post-conflict status of the country. The
ICR indicates (para. 58) that the sustainability of the rehabilitation of the capacity of renewable energy was less than
envisaged as only short term rehabilitations were undertaken, and additional work was to be carried out with
additional financing from Netherlands. Even in a situation of emergency, rehabilitated infrastructure funded by a Bank
project should aim to achieve a satisfactory level of sustainability, based on careful design and supervision.

While the project aimed to support the Project Implementing Entity's and the Recipient's institutional strengthening,
the billing collection rate has varied considerably over recent years. The ICR indicates (para. 22) that the average
collection rate in 2012 has worsened considerably, and that the deterioration in the billing collection performance over
the past three years is still a cause for concern. It also points to other shortcomings including: (i) the failure to
implement the fuel pass-through mechanism, and (ii) the failure to install a reliable management system, to develop
the right regulation, staff motivation and improved governance, despite the fact that the fifth component of the project
was expected to address most of these challenges.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                       18%                                     100%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                       30%                                     70%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
6. Outcome:

Moderately Satisfactory

The relevance of objectives is rated as high, because the project supported priority activities of a post-conflict client
confronted with an energy crisis in the capital city. The relevance of design is rated as substantial, because there was
consistency between the objective, the outcomes and the components of the operation, although the statement of
objectives and the selection of outcome could have been improved. Regarding efficacy, there was substantial
progress toward project outcomes: (i) reliability of the electricity supply improved in 2013, although an unexpected
incident on a regional electricity source reduced outcome achievement by the project closure, and (ii) increased and
diversified access to electricity occurred. On balance, efficiency was modest, however, because the positive EIRR
was mainly due to the consumer's willingness to pay, while the FIRR was negative 46%. Moreover, the sustainability
of the rehabilitation of the capacity of renewable energy was less than envisaged as only short term rehabilitations
were undertaken, and progress toward better institutional efficiency was limited.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Considered in the context of the reforms and other transformations (ongoing and new investments) affecting the
Burundi energy sector, the achieved outcome from the EEP's implementation was relatively marginal. The achieved
outcome cannot be sustained if reforms in the entire energy sector are not completed and strengthened. Key
challenges that have to be addressed for the revival and the sustainability of the energy sector are as follows: (i) to
adopt a tariff reflecting the real costs of electricity generation, (ii) to implement planned investments, (iii) to upgrade
the performance of Regideso, and (iv) most importantly to have the current socio-political strife settled, because it is
an obstacle to mobilization of investment resources and the implementation of the electricity sector modernization.

More specifically, tackling the following issues would contribute to the sustainability of achieved outcome: (i) the
implementation of the respective commitments of the Government and REGIDESO under the Performance Contract
to ensure future institutional sustainability of reforms, (ii) the adoption and enforcement of the fuel pass-through
mechanism as REGIDESO cannot be expected to finance in the longer term the cost of thermal generation from
grants and subsidies; and (iii) the enhancement of the capacity of REGIDESO to maintain adequately the new thermal
plant as well as the pre-payment meters and the hydro plants, as a remedy to the current poor performance on
maintenance. The recent security developments linked to the election process point to difficulties to move ahead with
new investment in the energy sector, and the there is a significant risk that achieved outcome under the project may
not be sustained in the medium and long-term.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

IEG endorses the ICR's assessment of the Bank's performance at entry, which underscored the following
elements: (i) on the positive side, the project design drew on the design of the MSWEIP project under
implementation at that time, and some lessons learned from the project were taken into account, (ii)
implementation arrangements were appropriate, because they built on the experience of the MSWEIP. On the
negative side, (i) lessons from emergency projects developed elsewhere did not appear to have served in the
design of the project; (ii) Bank staff lacked a seasoned power engineer with emergency power supply experience,
and reliance on REGIDESO engineers with little experience in the design of thermal plant caused poor project
design; (iii) the AfDB’s experience in its attempt to finance the hydro-rehabilitation component was not used and
this omission led to inadequate financing, and unsatisfactory tendering process and results, and finally (iv) the
design of the prepayment meter component had flaws, and in particular it omitted a meter maintenance training
component.

Because of the above shortcomings, quality at entry is rated MU.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
The EEP benefitted from the project implementation framework developed when REGIDESO was executing the
MSWEIP, and implementation risk was reduced. However, the sole source recruitment of an Owner’s Engineer
to supervise the project without proven experience in executing similar project components and in small
post-conflict countries resulted in a higher project risk.

The ICR indicates that supervision missions were regular, and the Bank team promptly acted upon
implementation obstacles, as testified by assessments in the ISRs and realistic ratings at each phase of project
progress. The Bank provided adequate implementation support to the construction of the thermal plant and the
rehabilitation of the main hydro and transmission infrastructure. The support provided to project implementation
and the correction of flaws made during the design phase of the project was decisive in assuring a positive
outcome. The ICR found that monitoring of fiduciary aspects was adequate throughout. The Bank team’s
supervision of the project was effective overall, despite the above shortcomings, and quality of supervision is rated
as MS.

In the case of a split rating between the two pillars of the Bank performance, IEG guidelines determine that an MU
and an MS rating are counted as MS overall, if the project outcome is rated as MS.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The ICR notes (para 75) that the Government made noticeable progress in restoring the financial sustainability of
REGIDESO through two successive increases in electricity tariff, based on recommendations of tariff studies. The
tariff adjustments were particularly sensitive, as the quality of service increased only marginally during the period,
while load shedding continued.

However, some key expected achievements were missed, including: (i) the fuel pass-through mechanism was not
established; (ii) the introduction of the major reforms needed to put the sector on a sustainable footing did not
follow-up on implementation of tariff measures in order to achieve the targets of the Performance Contract; and
(iii) the effectiveness of the Project Steering Committee was limited, as it met irregularly, and limited its activities
to ex-post review of progress rather than steering project implementation, and the results of the project
implementation reviews were poorly disseminated.



   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

As per the ICR (para 76), REGIDESO succeeded in implementing the appraised activities and in achieving the
development outcome. Key staff remained unchanged for the duration of the project and REGIDESO successfully
coordinated implementation, associating the relevant REGIDESO departments. However, REGIDESO entrusted
the design and the supervision of the thermal plant to staff and engineers with insufficient competency and limited
experience.

REGIDESO was also slow to process procurement in the project start-up phase and had little expertise regarding
safeguards though during implementation, the agency had to create and staff a Social and Environmental unit to
address this issue. The high turnover rate in REGIDESO management also weakened project oversight.

The performance of REGIDESO was less satisfactory in terms of timely preparation of the required accounting
audit reports for REGIDESO, which were issued with delay. Follow-up action on the recommendations of the
auditors was limited and did not result in increased reliability and quality of the accounting system, nor in the
management system overall.
   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The project's results framework was adequate and concise, as PDO and intermediate results indicators were
appropriate to carry out performance evaluation of the project. Baselines and targets were available for all indicators.
However, there was room for improving the quality of indicators. the ICR pointed out (para 41) that some activities
needed more specific indicators, notably (i) an intermediate outcome indicator targeting the average capacity in
operation for the extension of Bujumbura thermal generation plant, and (ii) specific performance indicators related to
the installation of pre-payment meters. A medium Term Review was planned for 2012 in the PAD to assess progress
toward outcome.

b. M&E Implementation:

The ICR notes (p.42) that reporting on project implementation progress was generally candid and regular, and that
ISRs included quarterly updates for indicator values, linking progress or lack of the same to project activities and
performance. Core indicators reported in the ISRs were closely monitored. The Mid-term Review (MTR) was carried
out in April/May 2013, after nearly a one-year delay. The MTR focused on issues related to (i) implementation of the
fuel cost pass-through formula, (ii) the prepayment meter installation contract, (iii) the development of a management
information system in REGIDESO, and (iv) the need for an extension of the closing date. The MTR found that all the
project components were progressing well after a slow start, that their relevance to achieve the PDO was still strong,
and that there was no need for project restructuring.


c. M&E Utilization:

M&E played a key role in the context of a project with flaws in the design and implemented in a post -conflict
environment. The Bank team used information progress reports to devise adjustments and corrective measures to
implementation shortcomings. For instance, the ICR notes (para 43) that when the procurement of works took too
long to get underway or other activities experienced delays, additional technical assistance was sought to get the
project back on track, or for the design of the fuel pass-through mechanism. A household and business survey was
carried out to assess the perception of the impact of the project from beneficiary stakeholders.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The EEP was classified as a category "B" project, triggering safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment and on
Involuntary Resettlement. The Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy
Framework of the MSWEIP were updated, approved by the Bank, and disclosed before project appraisal.

The ICR indicates (para. 45) that safeguards were handled by the same team that was responsible for safeguards
compliance under the MSWEIP, and the environmental and social impacts of activities financed by the project were
mitigated in a satisfactory manner. Relevant safeguard mitigation measures concerning the management of used oil,
spill risk and civil works in particular were correctly implemented. Two environmental and social reviews of all the
project components were carried out by the Borrower, and recommendations and mitigation measures resulting from
the reviews were acted upon. The Bank’s safeguard team rated the socio-environmental risk of the project as
Moderate.
b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement. As was the case under the MSWEIP, REGIDESO was responsible for procurement with the support of
consultant specialists. The ICR notes (para. 47) that post-procurement reviews by the Bank did not reveal any
irregularities and Bank procurement procedures were complied with. The only procurement issue was related to the
contract for the rehabilitation of the hydro power plants, which was handled jointly by REGIDESO and the Bank for a
significant revision of the scope of the work to fit the available funds. The decision to negotiate the closure of the
bidding for the contract was approved by the Bank’s Regional Procurement Manager (RPM).

Procurement for the main packages (thermal plant, rehabilitation of hydro plants, and pre-payment meters) was
executed on schedule, but adjustments took place to settle disputes that arose from design imperfections inherent to
emergency operations. Overall, the project benefitted from the Bank’s capacity building efforts under the MSWEIP, as
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) shared a number of key staff with the MSWEIP.

Financial management . REGIDESO was also responsible for financial management, with support of a consultant
specialist. The ICR indicates that regular supervision missions confirmed that the project complied with the obligations
of financial reporting and auditing and with Bank financial management procedures. Project disbursements were slow
initially, implementation accelerated since 2012 and disbursements reached about 98.64 percent by project closing
date. Overall, the disbursement performance of the project was satisfactory, given weak capacity of the borrower's
institutions, the country fragility, and that no restructuring or extension of the project was undertaken.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant        Recent security developments point to
                     Outcome:                                                  difficulties to move ahead with new
                                                                               investment in the energy sector.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately         The Government missed some key
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory     opportunities for reform. There were
                                                                               also serious shortcomings in project
                                                                               supervision and in building domestic
                                                                               technical capacity.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

IEG endorses the three lessons proposed in the ICR, and suggests a fourth one:
In emergency operations , an experienced Bank team is required to strike a delicate balance between speed ,
implementation risk and project quality : Key features of an emergency project are (i) speedy preparation in order
to address urgent needs on the ground (ii) weak client technical and institutional capacity, and (iii) uncertainty and
changing conditions of implementation. The best way to minimize risks on the project efficacy is to put together an
experienced team, which is conversant with Bank operations, and has some experience in implementing projects in
emergency situations. Implementation challenges should be handled by adhering to preparation and
procurement procedures tested in the context of the country or in similar situations.

Tendering procedures in emergency op erations should balance the need for speed and the management of
procurement risk: For emergency operations, the procurement strategy should not be designed based on speeding
project preparation and avoiding procurement complications, but in consideration of shortening the time during
project appraisal and implementation, even if it requires exceptional procurement procedures such as sole sourcing
or non-traditional procurement procedure.

Particularly for emergency operations in fragile countries , strong technical support would need to be put in place
timely to mitigate design and implementation risks : Recruiting the right technical people that will design and
implement the key components is of paramount importance. Difficulties in this project arose from entrusting the
design of the civil engineering of the thermal plant Regideso 's staff , and in recruiting the Owner’s Engineer without
international competition.

Another lesson identified by IEG is that in order to be fully effective in emergency situations , Bank teams should
make efforts to distance themselves from the traditional mindset of normal situation : The objective and the
outcomes of this project are not different from those of a normal project, and reflect the mindset of staff operating in
a normal environment. This Bank team's attitude has also been observed in other fragile environments.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR was organized around the project's results framework, with a deeper analysis related to the project
efficiency. The evidence related to PDO indicators was of good quality, but this could not correct the mismatch
between the indicators and the project objective and outcomes, stemming from an inadequate statement of the later.
Most importantly, the ICR did not discuss the issue of outcome attribution, although there was a previous project from
the Bank with similar components, and that the Government and other donors funded similar activities of rehabilitation
of electricity transmission and distribution.

The ICR was comprehensive and candid, and reported on the strengths and the weaknesses of the project, and
lessons learned were logically derived from the implementation of the project. The ICR was consistent with IEG
guidelines, except that the main text (25 pages) could have been shortened.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
