CJRCULATtNG COPY
Report No. 345a-UNI                                     m  BE RErURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Nigeria                                       R ET              o U  T            FILE COPY
September 6,1974                           RE-POR'TS   VZ$4
Agriculture Projects LDepartment
Western Africa Regional Office                 ONE    '          {
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
thc report was prepared jor oSficial use only by the Bank Group It may not
be published, quoted or cited Without Bank Group authorization the Bank Group does
not accept responsibility tor the accuracy or cornpleteness of the leport.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   :  Naira (N)
US$ 1         =  N o.66
N           =   US$ 1.52
N 1             Kobo (K) 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric (m) ton   =   0.98 long ton
1 long ton             1.016 m ton
1 long ton             2,9240 lb
1 hectare (ha)         2.47 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)        -   0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)       0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ABU       :  Ahmadu Bello University
CAP       :  Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd.
ERLS      :  Extension Research Liaison Service
FPEC      :  Funtua Project Executive Committee
FDA       :  Federal Department of Agriculture
FMG       :  Federal Military Government
FMA2NR    :  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FPMU      :  Funtua Project Management Unit
IAR           Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB       :  International Competitive Bidding
KLA           Katsina Local Authority
LBA       s  Licensed Buying Agent
MANR      :  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MITC      :  Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives
MOH       :  Ministry of Health
MOW       :  Ministry of Works
NAB       :  Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NCS       :  North Central State Government
NPMC      s  Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB      :  Northern States Marketing Board
PID       :  Produce Inspection Division
EMEU      :  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
RDB       :  Rural Development Bureau
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



NIGERIA
NtORTH CENTRAL, STATE
Funtua_ Agricultural Developmen  roject
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUtMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................                    iv
I.   INTRODUCTION         .....................................
II. BACKGROUND. ...                                                         2
A.  General                                                    2
B. Agriculture in Northern Nigeria.                            2
C. Agricultural Policy.                                        3
III. PROJECT AREA.                                                           4
A. General...  4
B. Institutions . .                                             5
IV. THE PROJECT....                                                         6
A. Description...                                              6
B. Detailed Features...                                        7
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS    ....                    10
A. Project Costs .10
B. Proposed Financing .12
C. Procurement .14
D. Disbursement .14
F.  Budgetary Control Funding Procedures
Accounts and Audit .15
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .16
A. Organization .16
B.  Staffing. .                                               18
C. Staff Training .20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
tessrs. Grimshaw and Payne (Bank) and Calkin, Glynn, Manning, Singh, Upchurch
and Yates (consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
D. Farm inputs - Procurement and distribution
and Credit Procedures ....          ...............    20
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARIERS' BENEFITS 
AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT ....          .......      22
A.  Yields and Outputs ........................               22
B.  Markets and Prices ......................,.               23
C.  Farmers' Benefits .........................               25
D.  Financial Implication to Government .......               26
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....           ....................     26
TiX.   RECOKH1ENDATIONS ....................................              29



ANNEXES:
1.   Farm and Crop Development
Table  1:  Seed cotton purchases by ISMB
Table  2:  Groundnut purchases by NSXB
Table  3:  Rank order of monthly rainfall at Funtua
Table  4:  if   If   "    I                 "  Daudawa
Table  5:  Rainfall histogram for project area
Table  6:  One hectare cotton budget
Table  7:  One hectare sorghum budget
Table  8:  One hectare maize budget
Table  9:  One hectare groundnut budget
Table 10: One hectare cowpea budget
Table 11: Seed cotton production projections
Table 12:  Sorghum
Table 13:  Maize
Table 14:  Groundnut
Table 15:  Cowpea
2.   Project Area, Institutions, and Existing Processing and Marketing
Table 1: Summary of phasing of Project Development Program
3.   Research and Seed Multiplication
Table 1: Cotton seed multiplication
Table 2: Summary of yields of promising maize
varieties and hybrids
Schedule 1: Seed Multiplication Demonstration Farms
4.   Agricultural Roads
Table  1:  Road construction : Output rates
Table  2:   "                 : Unit plant and Operating Costs
Table  3:                     : Capital costs for plant,
equipment and materials
Table  4:   "                 : Labor and plant operating costs
Table  5:  Road maintenance unit cost
Figure 1: Typical Agricultural Road Cross Section
5.   Water and Soil Conservation
Table  1:  Water and soil conservation development costs
6.   Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
Schedule 1: Organization Organogram
Schedule 2: Establislhment of Project Management Unit
Schedule 3: Job description and qualifications of Senior
Staff
Table  1:  Staff requirements : Project Administration Ilead
Office Unit
Table  2:  Staff requirements : Field services
Table  3:  Staff requirements : Engineering



7.   Farm Inputs
Table  1:  Basic cost assumptions on farm inputs
Table  2:  Seasonal fertilizer requirements
Table  3:  Seasonal requirements for seeds, insecticides
and battery sets
Table  4:  Summary of fertilizer subsidies, seasonal cash
sales and credit requirements
Table  5:  Farm equipment requirements
8.   Farm Credit
Table  1:  Illustrative cash flow for Sub-loans
9.   Project Evaluation
Table  1:  Evaluation Unit Costs
10.   Project Costs
Table  1:  Summary of project costs
Table  2:  Vehicles, plant and equipment - Capital cost
Table  3:  llouses, buildings, furnishings and construction
material costs
Table  4:  Staff salaries and allowances
Table  5:  Running costs of vehicles and plant
Table  6:  General Service Costs
11.   Project Financing
Table 1: Details of project financing
Table  2:  Illustrative cash flow for NCS
Table  3:  Disbursement schedule of Bank loan
12.   Marketing and Prices
Table  1:  Cotton seed requirement
Table  2:  Cotton marketing costs
Table  3:  Seed cotton ginning capacity
Table  4:  Groundnut marketing costs
Table  5:  Diagram of market layout
Table  6:  Production of major food crops
Table  7:  Millet and Sorghum prices
Table  8:  Projected supply and demand for selected foodstuffs
Table  9:  Estimated producer prices for maize and sorghum
Table 10:       "                        "  cowpeas
Table 11:  Farmgate prices - groundnuts
Table 12:  Economic and producer price calculations - seed cotton
13.   Economic Benefits
Table 1: Economic costs and returns
Table 2: Project benefits
Table 3: Farm Labor
Schedule 1: Returns to farmers using work oxen
Schedule 2: Returns to tractor users
MAPS
1.   Project location
2.   Project area



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
APPRAISAL OF FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
Bank assistance to finance an agricultural development project in the North
Central State of the Federation. The project was identified by a Bank mission
in November 1972, and was subsequently prepared by the Bank in collaboration
with the North Central State authorities. This report is based on the find-
ings of an aopraisal mission that visited Nigeria in September and October
1973.
ii.       Under the present economic circumstances and associated industrial
growth, industry and the urban population are becoming more dependent on the
rural population for assured food and industrial crop supplies, and at the
same time the gap in income earnings between urban and rural communities is
becoming ever wider. The northern States of Nigeria and their rural popula-
tions are the main producers of grain crops for human consumption and of indus-
trial crops for processing industries, and yet their per capita income of
about US$40 per annum is the lowest in the Federation.
iii.      Except for the extreme northern areas, mainly north of 120 latitude,
the soils and climate of the northern States are generally suitable for ex-
tensive annual crop production. Research workers and the more responsive
farmers using improved inputs have adequately shown the response of improved
seeds to economic applications of fertilizers, and the viability of insecti-
cides for pest control purposes. Due to the disruptions caused by the civil
war (1966-68) and its aftermath, the lack of planning resources, and until
recently considerable financial constraints, very little had been done to
improve the production of the small farmer. Even now experienced manpower
to plan and implement rational developments in agriculture is in extremely
short supply. The Federal and State Governments recognizing the need to
increase the production from the small farm sector, 70% of the population,
now plan to accelerate the development of agriculture throughout Nigeria.
This project refers to one of three projects in northern Nigeria that the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) would develop with the Bank's
assistance.
iv.       The project covers the entire Funtua Division (7,500 km2) of
Katsina Province of the North Central State (10% of the State). The area
supports a population of about 905,000 people (16% of the State's popula-
tion) including some 100,000 families farming on average 3.9 ha each. The
net annual family income including the value of produce consumed on the fanm
is currently about US$266. The population is expanding, the soils are rapidly
declining in fertility, and the people are under constant pressure to increase
output. As such, conditions are ripe for project action and farmer response
is expected to be high.



- ii -
v.        The project would cover physical infrastructure, support services
and farm inputs; including 1,500 km of low cost agricultural roads; 85
earth dams and 160 ponds to provide water supplies to humans and livestock;
a project administrative center at Funtua, 5 development unit centers and
77 farm service centers; rehabilitate and equip two seed multiplication
farms to produce improved high yielding seed; and expand and create new training
facilities for project staff and farmers. The project would also provide bet-
ter support services in the form of a tenfold increase in extension staff,
introduce new credit and marketing services to the farmers; and the associated
staff houses, offices and transport facilities required to support these serv-
ices. The project would procure farm inputs to sell to farmers for cash or
credit.
vi.       A Federal operated Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU)
would be established to evaluate the operations and benefits of the proposed
investments. This unit would also evaluate other similar projects in northern
Nigeria.
vii.      The project would be managed by a special Management Unit responsi-
ble to an Executive Committee, both to be established under a gazetted order
of the North Central State Executive Council. The committee would be chaired
by the Permanent Secretary of the State's Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources. The Management Unit would be suitably staffed through transfer
of existing Government staff or personnel presently under training. Defi-
ciencies in specialized technical skills and high level management staff,
unavailable in Nigeria, would be made up through international recruitment.
viii.     The proposed Bank loan of US$29 million would be to the Federal Military
Government of Nigeria for a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. The loan would cover 51% of total project costs, estimated at
US$29.0 million. Of the US$29 million Bank loan, US$27.9 million would be
onlent to the North Central State Government (NCS), and US$1.1 million would
finance part of the cost of the PMEU. FMG would finance 1% of project cost
as its contribution to the PMEU evaluation section, US$0.7 million. NCS
would provide US$25.0 million or 43% of total project costs, project invest-
ment and operating costs. The remaining project costs estimated at US$2.9
million, or 5%, would be contributed by participating farmers in the form
of cash payments for seasonal inputs and down payments on farm equipment.
ix.       Procurement of vehicles, plant equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, having a value of more than US$25,000 would
be through international competitive bidding (ICB), and would have an esti-
mated value of US$20.6 million. Contracts for civil works such as houses,
offices and warehouses valued at US$7.5 million would not be suitable for
ICB, due to the dispersed locations and small size of individual contracts,
and would be awarded under locally advertised competitive bidding. Foreign
firms and suppliers who are well represented in Nigeria would not be pre-
cluded, but bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2% preference
in bid evaluation. Construction of roads, water supplies and soil conserva-
tion works estimated at US$7.1 million would be carried out on force account
due to the shortage of suitable medium scale contractors who normally would



- iii -
undertake this work, however petty contractors would be employed to the
maximum extent feasible.   A large part of project costs, an estimated
US$15.5 million, would be for labor, staff salaries and allowances, vehicle
maintenance and operation, general services and project evaluation, and as
such would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. Internationally recruited
staff would be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
x.        Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover: (a) 100% of
the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles, tractors, heavy plant and
equipment, or 75% of the cost of these items if locally procured - US$2.4
million; (b) 100% of the CIF costs of directly imported farm tractors and
equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines, fertilizers, insecticides,
battery sets and seeds, or 72% of these items if procured locally - US$6.7
million; (c) 100% of the cost of expatriate staff - US$1.8 million; (d)
60% of the cost of buildings, houses, furnishings, and construction mate-
rials and labor for roads, dams and soil conservation works - US$4.5 mil-
lion; (e) 60% of local staff costs - US$3.7 million; (f) 60% of the cost
of the evaluation section of PMEU and field evaluation units - US$1.4 mil-
lion; and (g) US$8.5 million to cover unallocated expenses. Disbursements
of the Bank loan would be against import documentation, contracts and certi-
fied records of expenditure, the latter would be scrutinized from time to
time by the Bank during supervision missions.
Xi.       The principal direct benefits would, through the output of 60,000
project farmers, be from project year 5 the annual incremental production
of 25,000 tons of seed cotton (115,000 bales of lint), 12,000 tons of ground-
nuts, 7,000 tons of sorghum, 61,000 tons of maize, and 2,500 tons of cowpeas;
the project would indirectly benefit a further 40,000 farm families through
provision of better communications, water supplies and markets. Including
the non-farming population, some 905,000 people would one way or other re-
ceive some benefit from the project, not least the project would provide
additional employment - equivalent to 12,000 manyears per annum. Intangible
benefits would include the provision of a basic infrastructure on which
health and other social services could be developed, expansion of local trade
to the non-farming population, and the strengthening of institutions including
the Local Authority and the State Vinistry of Agriculture and Natural Re-
sources. The project established evaluation unit would provide considerable
information to support the future planning of Federal and State agricultural
policies. The project would train Nigerian staff in management and technical
aspects applicable to rural development. The economic rate of return is 41%,
a 30% reduction in commodity prices would reduce the rate of return to 8% and
the project would still be viable (18% rate of return) if production targets
were reduced to 50% of those projected.  The net farm income for farmers
directly affected by the project would increase from US$266 to US$410 per
annum at full development, and the net per capita income of the total farming
population would rise from US$41 to US$63 inferring an annual income growth
rate of 8% per annum, compared to the present no growth situation, and is
achievable provided that the physical inputs and management needs are
provided.



- iv -
xii.      On the basis of the assurances that were obtained during negotia-
tion, and set out in Chapter IX, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$29 million.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report aDpraises a loan application made to the Bank by the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG). The purpose of the loan would
be to assist Nigeria's North Central State Government (NCS) to finance an
agricultural development program involving 100,000 small farmers in the
Funtua Division of Katsina Province. The project would involve the construc-
tion of vital crop extraction roads and water supplies, and would provide
farmers with the technical, marketing, and credit services, and inputs needed
to insure significant increases in production and farmer incomes. Currently,
the latter are low, about US$266 per family, or US$41 per capita.
1.02      The project is deliberately large; this is essential in order to
make a meaningful impact in such a large and populous country. On the other
hand, the risks that do exist are minimized, provided competent management is
available, because the technical innovations proposed have been proven, the farmers
are hardworking, and the production induced by the project is in high demand
on domestic and export markets. The project concept could be applied through-
out most of northern Nigeria. One important role of the project would provide
a practical training ground for Nigerian staff in the technical and administra-
tive management of projects of this type.
1.03      The project is within the frame of policies outlined in Nigeria's
"Perspective Plan for Agricultural Development to 1985". In particular, it
follows FMG policies to increase production of both food and industrial crops
to supply Nigeria's rapidly increasing urban populations and industries includ-
ing intensive livestock production enterprises, particularly in the southern
States. The project would assist to develop sound agricultural credit systems
tailored to provide credit to large numbers of small farmers. It would provide
also a much needed base for the expansion and improvement of health and other
social services currently planned by the State Government; the project road
development program would be a vital first phase to facilitate the improve-
ment of these social services.
1.04      This report refers to similar projects at Gusau (NW State) and
Gombe (NE State). These projects were appraised concurrently and are similar
in nature; while administratively totally separate, they have common produc-
tion policies, techniques and services. The three projects represent a first,
but very substantial, step by the Federal and State Governments to increase
the production and raise the living standards of large numbers of peoples
in the relatively less developed and environmentally harsh northern States.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The 12-State Federal Republic of Nigeria has a total area of about
914,000 sq km, and in 1971, a population estimated at 68 million. About 35%
of GDP estimated at US$9.1 billion in 1972/3, is generated in the agricul-
ture sector, which employs 70% of the labor force. In 1972/3, total domestic
exports amounted to US$2.1 billion, of which petroleum represented about
82% (US$1.8 billion). The main agricultural exports are cocoa, groundnuts,
and groundnut oil and cake. Oil palm products used to be exported, but
with increasing domestic consumption and a general decline in the industry,
palm oil is no longer exported, and palm kernel exports are dwindling.
Cotton, once a major export, is now fully utilized by the local milling in-
dustry and local supply cannot meet demand. By and large, Nigeria is self-
sufficient in food; food imports are estimated at only US$2.6 per capita.
2.02      Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecological
zones (see map): a southern wet forest zone, south of the confluence of
the Benue and Niger Rivers, mainly growing perennial tree crops, including
cocoa, oil palm and rubber; a central dry forest zone known as the middle
belt which is underpopulated and tsetse infested, but has a high potential
for annual food crops and livestock; and a northern zone, covering about
50% of the country, with a tree savannah ecology, and which supports
Nigeria's cattle population, and produces its main cereal crops, and ground-
nuts and cotton.
B. Agriculture in Northern Nigeria
2.03      North Central State is one of four States in northern Nigeria
which have very similar agricultural and ecological systems. The four have
also a closely associated history of institutional development and agricul-
--J policies, as prior to 1968, the whole region, including two other
States, was administered as one from a regional capital at Kaduna. Thus,
a description of the North Central State, its policies and problems, would
apply closely to the situation in North Western, North Eastern and Kano
States.
2.04      North Central State, with a population of about 5.5 million, lie!
between latitudes 9-13° north and 6-9° east, and comprises about 70,000 km4
Within the State there is considerable climatic variation, and rainfall
varies from 1,250 mm in its south to less than 750 mm on the border with
Niger. Much of the State has an assured monomodal rainfall (4-5 months) of
at least 750 mm per annum; although the distribution within the total is
sometimes erratic, leading to "drought" years such as occurred in 1973.



- 3 -
Most of the State has a tree savannah ecology, and in those areas of higher
tree densities, the incidence of tsetse is high and trypanosomiasis is a
constraint to livestock production, as well as being a human health problem.
Consequently, a large proportion of the population occupies the healthier 2/3
of the State lying north of Kaduna. For these and for ethnic reasons, Katsina
Province has one of Nigeria's higher population densities (104 people per
km2), and farm sizes average less than 4 hectares. The proposed project which
would be centered on Funtua covers about 10% of the State and includes 16%
of the population.
2.05      The major crops are annuals such as millet and sorghum, the prin-
cipal cereals, and groundnuts, cotton, and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize,
tomatoes, chilies, cassava and yams. Livestock plays an important role in
the economy and include cattle, sheep, goats and poultry. The Fulani people,
who are nomadically inclined, own most of the livestock, and have a considera-
ble impact on the arable farmer. Traditionally, cotton and groundnuts have
been the north's main cash crops and are likely to remain so; but as the savan-
nah areas of Nigeria are generally well suited for cereal production, they could
play an important role in the future in producing cereals for the expanding
market created by intensive livestock industries and urban populations of the
south.
C. Agricultural Policy
2.06      Agricultural production in the State is virtually stagnant, and
any increase that is occurring is due to population growth. Although signi-
ficant improvements in crop yields have been demonstrated to be technically
and economically feasible by the research institutions, very little has been
done to help the farmer to obtain and use the innovations necessary to im-
prove his production. Until very recently, NCS had no clear-cut policy for
increasing production, and, in the absence of specific plans to implement
the policy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MTANR) still
tends to function on a basis of maintaining the status quo. The extension
service is weak and poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions
barely exist, planning is poor, and the expertise needed to implement suc-
cessfullv major agricultural and rural development projects is in very short
supply.
2.07      Nigeria's manufacturing industries that are based on farm products
suclh as cotton and groundnuts, and the rapidly expanding urban population
(estimated to be increasing at 5% annually) are totally dependent on the
small traditional farmer for their raw materials and food supplies. These
farmers, as throughout Nigeria in general, are very poorly serviced, do not
use imDroved and drought resistant varieties and have very limited access
to fertilizers and agro-chemicals. Production is, therefore, irregular and
is governed by the vagaries of climate and other influences, such as pest
attack, that remain beyond the farmer's control. Given the foregoing, the
small farmer is unable to bank on producing an assured surplus.



- 4 -
2.08      FMG is becoming increasingly aware of the need to rectify the
current situation, and in discussions with the Bank and NCS, has agreed that
in the short term, at least, the quickest way of improving farm production and
incomes would be to provide a concentration of support services to areas of
reasonable potential and dense farm population. In such areas, farm sizes
cannot increase and farmers, with declining land fertility, are facing the
problem of maintaining, let alone increasing, production. Such farmers are
likely to respond well to any improvements that may be offered to them. For
the longer term, it will be important to develop programs to open up areas
of unused land, particularly in the now tsetse-infested middle belt, for
settlement by farmers and graziers.
2.09      The project appraised in this report would provide a package of
services to existing farming communities with the objective of increasing
production of cash and food crops; it would train agricultural, credit,
marketing, administrative and engineering staff, and would develop NCS's
agricultural planning capacity. The increase in farm incomes, generated
by project actions, would be significant. Further background information
is available in Report 416a-UNI titled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Nigeria" dated August 5, 1974 with special reference to Vol. III on "Problems
and Prospects of Food Production".
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The project area covers 7,500 km  or about 10% of the total area
of the North Central State. It comprises the whole of the Funtua Adminis-
trative Division of Katsina Province which is the southernmost Division of
Katsina emirate. Map shows area location within Nigeria.
3.02      The annual rainfall is about 1,100 mm and is confined entirely to
a 6-montlh neriod from April througlh September. Under reasonable management
and utilization of improved seeds and fertilizers, high yields can be
achieved under the prevalling climatic regime. Due to the seasonality of
rainfall and the underlying granitic basement complex, groundwater is severely
restricted, and with increasing land pressures stream flow has markedly
diminished and water supplies for human and livestock resources are a
limiting factor to development.
3.03      The project area is occupied by the people of the Hlausa tribe,
and bv mid-1974 is estimated to have some 100,000 farm families that support
a total project area population of 905,000. The social structure is signi-
ficant because of the relative strength and influence of the hierarchical
structure of the Local Authority. The project comes within the jurisdiction
of the Emir of Katsina whose hereditary authority is delegated through
salaried district and village heads. The latter are responsible for village
level administration of land tenure arrangements based on Islamic law and
on customary usufructory rights.



3.04      Information on farm size is scant but it is estimated that the
average size farm holdings is 3.9 ha. There are some large farms (over
100 ha) within the project area, but these are relatively few. Cropping
patterns (see Annex 1) are dominated by sorghum and millet as food grains,
and cotton and groundnuts as the major cash crops. Numerous minor crops
are grown.
3.05      The project area is well served by main roads, and has a railhead
at Funtua. However, crop extraction and other minor roads are virtually
non-existent, and communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the
outside world. Transportation of farmer produce and inputs is therefore dif-
ficult and expensive. Further project area data are at Annex 2.
B. Institutions
3.06      State Institutions that would be concerned with the project and
their relevant responsibilities are described in Annex 2. They include: the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) that would have the
responsibility for carrying out the project; the Ministry of Works (MOW),
responsible for State-financed public works programs; the Ministry of Health
(MOH), responsible for all aspects of human health in the State; the Ministry
of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives (MITC) responsible for cooperative develop-
ment; and the Katsina Local Authority (KLA). The project area comes under the
control of the KLA, whose functions include the collection of tax in respect
of people and cattle (haraji and jangali, respectively); the administration
of land allocation; and the provision of services such as feeder road construc-
tion and maintenance, dispensaries, and primary education as a complement to
State Government activities in these fields.
3.07      Other institutions that would be concerned with or affected by the
project and which are described in Annex 2 would be the Funtua Cooperative
Credit and Marketing Union Ltd.; tlIe Rural Development Bureau (RDB), a State
Government body composed of representatives of public entities concerned with
the rural sector, and which has a relatively informal role in coordinating
the rural development aspects of State-sponsored programs; and the Institute of
Agricultural Research (IAR) (Annex 3) which was created in the early 1960's
from the Research Division of the then Northern Nigeria Ministry of Agriculture,
and which now is a semi-autonomous body linked with Ahmadu Bello University
(ABU).
3.08      Institutions concerned with crop marketing and processing are the
Northern States Mlarketing Board (NSMB) which as purchasing agent of the
Federal Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC) is responsible for organi-
zing the domestic purchase, through its Licensed Buying Agents (LBA), of
controlled crops such as cotton and groundnuts at prices predetermined by
FMG; and the Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd. (CAP) which was formerly
the British Cotton Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd. and which has had a
monopoly for ginning Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century



ago. CAP has ginneries throughout the cotton-growing zones of the northern
States. The present ginning agreement between CAP and NSMB expires in 1976
and for this reason assurances were obtained from NCS during negotiations
that any future ginning arrangement would not adversely affect the production,
marketing or ginning of cotton within the project area. The Produce Inspec-
tion Division (PID) of MANR has important responsibilities for grading con-
trolled produce. Crop processing, marketing and grading arrangements are
described in Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a five-year investment period
1975/76-1979/80, and would involve:
-    constructing about 1,500 km of low cost agricultural roads,
85 earth dams, 160 tapkis (ponds), and associated soil con-
s ervation structures;
-    constructing an administrative center in Funtua, 5 develop-
ment unit centers, and 77 farm service centers;
-    rehabilitating Daudawa seed multiplication farm and the
expansion and equipping of an additional farm at
Malumfashi;
-    expanding training facilities at Daudawa and constructing
a new project training center at Malumfashi;
-    provision of adequate farmer extension, credit and market-
ing services, including staff, vehicles and equipment;
-    provision of seasonal and medium-term loans to farmers for
the purchase of crop inputs and farm equipment;
-    establishing an evaluation unit to evaluate the project; and
-    preparation of plans for the continued provision of project
services after the investment phase of the project is com-
pleted.
4.02      The project would be managed by the Funtua Project Management Unit
(FPMU) which would carry out the day-to-day management operations. FPMUT
would be responsible to the Funtua Project Executive Committee (FPEC) for
budgetary and policy control. A committee would be set up to coordinate
project activities at Federal level. Details at Chapter VI.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
4.03      A summary showing the expected scheduling of project activities
is at Annex 2, Table 1; it includes the construction program, the rate of
village involvement, and the number of farmers affected by the project
annually.
4.04      Agricultural Road Development.  The project would provide a network
of 1,500 km of agricultural roads, of a design adequate to allow light traf-
fic during most of the wet season, and heavy trucks during the dry season.
The roads would permit the efficient evacuation of farm produce, the timely
supply of inputs, the effective movement of project service staff, and much
improved general access to farms and hamlets. This basic infrastructure
would allow other Government programs including health and education to
expand into areas which currently are inaccessible. Annex 4 gives details
of construction methods, specifications, and plant and equipment require-
ments. In view of an acute shortage of local contracting capacity, and the
probable lack of interest of foreign contractors in work of this sort, con-
struction would be undertaken by force account through a project operated
and managed field construction unit which would make some use of petty con-
tractors and would thereby assist in their development. Maintenance of roads
and dams would be the responsibility of the Katsina Local Authority which has
a Workcs Department. In order to build up KLA operational effectiveness, KLA
road maintenance staff would be seconded to the project for training and oper-
ational control. The project would provide, during the investment period,
funds for the purchase and operation of the necessary maintenance equipment.
4.05      W4ater Development.  The project would set up and operate a Unit to
constru-ct soee 85 small and medium size earth dams, each of a minimum capacity
of 100,000 m , equipped with simple systems to reticulate the water away from
the reservoir.  The reservoirs would supply water for human and livestock
needs and would be located in strategic areas. They would also be used to
suDply water for compaction purposes during road construction. In addi-
tion, some 160 tapkis (ponds) would be developed to provide a better distribu-
tion of water for livestock for all but the last 3 months of the dry season.
In a very few instances, the dams and tapkis, where land and water availability
allows, would be used for the irrigation of village vegetable production.
Abundant dam sites are available. Annex 5 provides detail on design and
specifications.
4.06      Soil Conservation.  In association with the water development
program, soil conservation measure! would be undertaken within the catclh-
ment areas of the dams (about 5 km  each).  These would include the construc-
tion of cutoff ditches, artificial waterways and contour ridging and be
aimed to reduce siltation of the dams and control erosion. Further soil
conservation measures would be taken in providing the farmers with marker
ridges to assist in contour realignment of crop ridges. During the project
investment period, some 2,700 km or 36% of the project area would be so
protected; these programs should be continued beyond the investment period.
Annex 5 provides the details of this project component.



- 8 -
4.07      Building Development.  The project would include construction of
houses, offices and stores needed for project services. It would include
the construction of 350 houses of various sizes, a project office, 5 devel-
opment center offices, a railhead store and other facilities. In addition,
77 farm service centers, each including a 500-ton capacity warehouse would
be constructed, and improvements made to three market depots associated with
existing and future cotton ginneries. Those houses and buildings not re
quired by MANR after the project investment period would be taken over by
other Government departments operating within the area.
4.08      Seed Multiplication Farms.  The project would make improvements
to the existing seed multiplication farm at Daudawa; and expand and develop
the Malumfashi seed farm. Investments would include farm buildings, water
supplies, farm machinery and equipment. These seed farms would, in asso-
ciation with nearby large farmers, provide project and other State farmers
with improved seeds, act as demonstration and research centers, and provide
practical training in farm management. Details are at Annex 3, Schedule 1.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from NCS that not later
than one month from loan effective date management responsibilities for Daudawa
and tfalumfashi seed farms, together with their assets and staff, would be
under the care of FPMUT.
4.09      Training Facilities.  The project would expand boarding accommo-
dation at the Daudawa training center from 20 to 40 trainees and construct
a new center at Malumfashi, also catering for 40 residential trainees.
Initially, the centers would be used for project staff training, but pro-
gressively emphasis would be on farmer training.
4.10      Farmer Support Services.  The project would expand and intensify
support services for farmers. It would increase the farmer extension persort-
nel ratio from the current 1:2,440 to 1:240. This would involve an increase
in extension agents from 41 to 420. The extension personnel would include,
besides basic extension agents, personnel specialized in livestock husbandry,
seed multiplication, commercial farm management, farmer training, and farm
equipment. The tractor hire service now operated by MANR at a loss would
b    .¶scc out, and gradually replaced by project sponsored and assisted private
operators. A credit service would be established to operate a project con-
trolled credit revolving fund and the contingent services to farmers (para
6.1q).  A marketing service would also be established to improve market
liaison, quality control, price information, produce weighing and to control
traders. The credit and marketing services would employ some 260 staff of
various grades; of these only about 30, mainly produce examiners are now
employed by MNR. Consequently, the majority of personnel employed in these
services would receive in-service training from the project (details are at
Annex 6).
4.11      Other MANP, services such as veterinary, fisheries and forestry would
continue to worlc within the project area, and would coordinate their
activities with FPM.



- 9 --
4.12      Farm Inputs.  Under the project, seasonal inputs would be made
available to farmers for cash and credit.  Such inputs and equipment are
estimated to amount, during the project investment period, to 56,000 tons
of fertilizer, 4,000 tons improved seeds, 2,000 tons insecticides, 47,000
ultra low volume insecticide sprayers, 10,000 ox carts, 10,000 ox plows and
100 tractors and associated implements. Inputs and equipment would be sold
for cash or credit at the farm service centers. Details are at Annex 7 and 8.
4.13      Project MLonitoring and Evaluation.  A Project Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit (PMEU) would be established by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (FMANR). PNEU would comprise two sections, the first
would technically review and oversee financial records and statements in
respect of the project, and the second would develop a system of evaluation
and analysis to provide EIG, State Governments and other institutions, relevant
economic and social data on the success or failure of project policies. Such
information would be vital to long term agricultural and rural planning in
Nigeria. FMG has indicated that it would employ consultants to staff the
second section.  PMEU would give technical direction to FPMU administered field
evaluation units to ensure adequate collection of information for PMEU analysis.
During loan negotiations assurances were obtained that arrangements accept-
able to the Bank would be drawn up between FMIG and consultants acceptable to
the Bank setting out the terms of reference for the evaluation section of
PNEU and the services to be provided by the consultants. The latter would be
one of the Nigerian universities, probably the Ahmadu Bello University. Fur-
ther details are at Annex 9.
4.14      Provision would be made for the necessary support items such as
motor vehicles, equipment, etc. to ensure that the objectives of the project
are fulfilled. Details at Annex 10.
4.15      Post Project Development.  During the project investment period,
TLANR and FPT4T would draw up detailed plans and arrange for the allocation
of staff to allow project services to continue undisrupted to farmers within
the project area after the end of the investment period. Presupposing no
radical changes in NCS organization extension and development services would
be handled by MANR's regular provincial organization suitably strengthened;
the evaluation section of PME.U would probably continue to evaluate this and
other projects, and the field evaluation units would be absorbed by the MANR
Planning Unit; NSMB would take over market control and liaison; ans4 the
Katsina Iocal Authority (KLA) or any other appropriate agency would maintain
roads and water supplies provided under the project. Assurances that roads
and dams would be maintained were obtained during negotiations.
4.16      During the project the evaluation section of PMEU would consider
various alternatives for the future use and operations of the revolving credit
fund,and the supply of farm inputs. It is important that by 1980 credit and
farm supplies should be commercially orientated, and that the institutions
involved should be relatively independent of Government with control in the
hands of participating farmers. Prior to negotiations the intention was to
set up a Farmer Finance Company to control and operate the revolving credit



- 10 -
fund. During negotiations FMG indicated that it would prefer to postpone the
formation of such a company to a time when (a) further evaluations of farmer
credit institutions and requirements had been made by PMEU during the first
three years of the project; and (b) evidence, if any, of improvements in the
performance of the existing cooperative system under new Federal policy and
guidance. The exclusion of the proposed Farmer Finance Company should have no
edverse effect on the project during the development period, provided that
firm plans are made for the proper transfer of the fund to the appropriate
institution prior to the project's completion. Thus, PMEU would play an
important role in evaluating the problems and requirements for future commer-
cial services to project farmers.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to total N37.9 million (US$57.6 mil-
lion) of which the foreign exchange component would be N19.1 million (US$29.2
million) or 51% of total costs.
5.02      The breakdown of project costs is detailed in Annex 10 and is sum-
marized in the following table:



- 11 -
Summary of Project Costs
%      -------N million -------  -----US$ million------
Distribution  Total  Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Local
Investment Costs
Vehicles, plant
& equipment          19(   6        2.1      1.6      0.5    3.2      2.4     0.8
Houses, buildings,       (
furnishings & con-    (
struction materials   (  13         5.0      1.5      3.5    7.6      2.3      5.3
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicle & planting
operating               (   5        1.8     0.8      1.0    2.7      1.2      1.5
General services         (   4        1.6     0.5      1.1    2.4      0.8      1.6
Staff: Local          24(  11         4.1      -       4.1    6.2       -       6.2
Expatriate Manage- (
ment                  (   2       0.6      0.6       -     1.0      1.0       -
Expatriate Tech- (
nical                (   2        0.6      0.6       -     0.9      0.9      -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm inputs(  16         6.2      4.4      1.8    9.4      6.7      2.7
30
Fertilizer subsidy       (  14       5.3      3.8      1.5    8.1      5.8      2.3
Evaluation
PMIEU Evaluation Section (  2         0.8     0.4      0.4    1.2      0.6      0.6
3
Field UJnits              (  1       0.7      0.3      0.4    1.1      0.5      0.6
Contingencies
Physical                 (   4        1.4     0.7      0.7    2.1      1.1      1.0
24
Price                    (  20        7.7     3.9      3.8   11.7      5.9      5.8
Total Project Costs               37.9    19.1    18.8   57.6    29.2    28.4
Distribution %                     100       51       49    100       51       49
5.03      Project costs include a 5% physical contingency, and a variable
price contingency 1/ over the proposed five-year loan disbursement period.
Contingencies amount to N9.1 million (US$13.8 million) or 24% of total project
costs. Costs are based on current quotations for vehicles, plant, equipment,
1/   Based on the Bank's Central Projects staff guidelines for treatment of proj-
ect costs.  Total price contingency equivalent to 27% of baseline costs.
Fertilizer costs, which have increased out of proportion to other costs,
were amended at negotiations to reflect current prices, and because the
average current 1980 prices liave been projected to be about the same as
current 1974 prices, price contingencies for fertilizer have not been
included.



- 12 -
materials and farm inputs; on current contract rates for building construction;
and on up-to-date salary and wage scales inclusive of allowances. Costs of
expatriate staff are based on current international salaries, and include
standard benefits and allowances. In the case of farm inputs, only incremental
requirements are costed. Participating farmers would, as now, receive a 50%
subsidy on the cost of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers and the costs
of this subsidy is included in project costs. Project costs include import
duties and taxes (internationally recruited staff salaries are estimated net
of tax). Total taxes amount to N2.5 million (US$3.8 million). Analysis of
the costs, Annex 10, Table 1, shows that 6% (N2.1 million) is for project
administration; 24% (N9.1 million) is for extension, credit and market serv-
ices; 12% (N4.7 million) is for road, soil and water conservation; 30% (N11.4
million) for incremental farm inputs and fertilizer subsidies; 4% (N1.5 million)
for project evaluation; and 30% (N9.1 million) for contingencies. Internation-
ally recruited staff costs are estimated at 3% of total costs, about half of
which would be for specialized technicians currently unavailable or in cri-
tically short supply in Nigeria.
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      It is proposed that IBRD make a loan of US$29 million to FMG, re-
payable at 8% over 20 years including a five-year grace period for principal
during which interest and commitment charges on the loan would be paid.
Equivalent to 51% of total project costs the loan would cover all foreign
costs, estimated at US$29 million (N19.1 million). Of the US$29 million,
N18.4 million (US$27.9 million) would be onlent to the NCS. The remaining
NO.7 rillion (US$1.1 million) would be retained by FMG to finance the eval-
uation section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU). During
negotiations it was agreed that the subsidiary loan agreement between FMG
and NCS would have been approved by the Bank.
5.05      FMG would provide NO.4 million (US$0.7 million) or 1% of total
project cost as its contribution to the evaluation section of PMEU. NCS
wrtild provide N16.4 million (US$25 million) or 43% of total project cost as
its contribution to investment and operating costs. The remainder of project
costs estimated at N1.9 million (US$2.9 million) or 5% would be contributed
by participating farmers in the form of cash purchases of seasonal inputs and
down payments on farm equipment. Details of the project financing plan are
shown at Annex 11, Table 1, and are summarized in the following table:



- 13 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
Total    IBRD       FMG       NCS       Farmer
---------------N -000----------
Investment Costs
Vehicles, plant and
equipment             2,093.0  1,577.0       -       516.0      -
Buildings, construc-
tion material, houses
and furnislhings      4,970.0  2,982.0       -      1988.0      -
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicle & plant
operating             1,850.0      -         -      1850.0      -
General services       1,567.6      -          -    1,567.6      -
Staff: Local           4,112.0  2,467.0        -    1,645.0      -
Expatriate
management       637.0    637.0                 -        -
Expatriate
technical        561.0    561.0        -       -         -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm
inputs               6,161.9  4,436.6        -       262.3   1,463.0
Fertilizer subsidy   5,265.7        -               5,265.7      -
Evaluation
PMEU Evaluation
Section                850.0    510.0    340.0       -
Field unit               652.9    392.0        -      260.9      -
Contingencies
Physical               1,436.1    678.1       17.0    667.8    73.2
Price                  7,709.0  4,838.2       88.0  2,402.4   380.4
Total N'000           37,866.2 19,078.9    445.0 16,425.7  1916.6
US$'000         57,556.2 29,000.0    676.4 24,967.1  2913.2
Distribution %           100        51         1       43        5
5.06      It was agreed that as from the date of loan negotiations retroactive
financing of up to US$150,000 would be made for the employment of key per-
sonnel (para. 6.09).



- 14 -
C. Procurement
5.07      Procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, where orders or contracts had a value of more
than IUS$25,000, would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IBRD guidelines. Such procurement is estimated to have a
value of about N13.5 million (US$20.6 million). Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15% preference when comparing domestic bids with
those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for the construction of buildings,
houses, and the purchase of construction materials and furnishings valued
at R5.0 million (US$7.5 million) would not be attractive to foreign contractors
due to the dispersed location of the work and small size of individual contracts
and orders, and would be awarded under locally advertised competitive bidding.
In the latter case, foreign firms and suppliers would not be precluded from
bidding as such work would be advertized in at least one local newspaper, but
bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2% preference in bid evalua-
tion. Construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation works esti-
mated at N4.7 million (US$7.1 million) would be carried out on force account
due to the shortage of suitable medium scale contractors who normally would
undertak'e this work, however petty contractors would be employed to the max-
ir'un extent feasible.  A large part of project costs, an estimated 110.2 mil-
lion (!S$15.5 million), would be for labor, staff salaries and allowances, ve-
hicle maintenance and operation, general services, and project evaluation, and
as such generally be unsuitable for competitive bidding. Those items not in-
cluded specifically under procedures for ICB or local competitive bidding would
be purchased through local commercial channels. The remaining N9.1 million
(US$13.9 million) of nroject costs would be contingencies. Nigeria has no
preferential import tariff arrangements and competition between foreign manu-
facturers on the domestic marlcet is keen.
D. Disbursement
5.08      The nroceeds of the Bank loan (US$29 million) would be disbursed
over five years (1975/76-1979/80) to cover 51% of total project costs and
would be expended against the following categories:
-    100% of the cif cost of directly imported vehicles,
heavy plant, and equipment (Annex 10, Table 2) or 75%
of the cost of these items if locally procured totalling
US$2.4 million (M1.6 million):
-    1007 of the cif cost of directly imnorted farm tractors
and equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines,
fertilizers, insecticides, battery sets and seeds
(Annex 7, Tables 2-5) or 72% of the cost of these
items if procured locally totalling US$6.7 million
(N4.4 million);



- 15 -
-    100% of the cost of internationally recruited staff
(Annex 10, Table 4) totalling US$1.8 million (N1.2
million);
-    60% of the cost of buildings, houses, furnishings,
and construction material and labor for roads, dams
and soil conservation works (Annex 10, Table 3) total-
ling US$4.5 million (N3.0 million);
-    60% of local staff costs (Annex 10, Table 4) totalling
US$3.7 million (N2.4 million);
-    60% of the cost of the evaluation section of the Pro-
ject Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and field evalua-
tion units (Annex 9, Table 1) US$1.4 million (NO.9
million); and
-    an unallocated amount totalling US$8.5 million
(N5.6 million) to cover physical and price contingen-
cies.
5.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made
against certified records of expenditures, documentation would not be sub-
mitted for review as a matter of course, but would be retained by the proj-
ect management unit for scrutiny by Bank supervision missions. Any surplus
loan funds after the completion of the project would be used to further
develop the project area providing expanded services to farmers.
E. Budgetary Control Funding Procedures Accounts and Audit
5.10      Budgets.  Annual budgets would be prepared by FPMIJ and approved
by FPEC for inclusion in the MANR development budget. The initial budget
would use as its base the cost estimates set out in this report, but would
be amended where necessary to tie in with changes in costs and project poli-
cies and development schedules. Major changes in policies and procedures
have to be approved by FPEC and the Bank. FPMU would, thereafter, amend its
monthly cash flow statement indicating costs, revenues and working capital
requirements. These monthly statements would be submitted to FPEC for mon-
itoring but FPNU would be authorized to operate on such monthly statements
unless officially informed to the contrary by the Chairman of FPEC. Assur-
ances that the above arrangements would be employed were obtained from NCS
during negotiations.
5.11      Funding Procedures.  On the basis of the annual budget approved by
FPEC, NCS would make the necessary allocations in its annual development
budget to cover its contribution to project costs as well as about 25% of



- 16 -
the remaining annual costs of the project to meet working capital require-
ments, the latter amounting to about Nl million. In order to insure an ade-
quate flow of funds to the Project, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions, that when necessary adequate guaranteed draw down procedures would be
made by NCS with a bank of its choice to allow FPMU full access to funds
within the limitation of the approved annual budget. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, NCS would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that a
project bank account with adequate funds had been established.
5.12      Accounts and Audit.  Separate accounts for FPMU and the evaluation
section of PMEU would be kept under acceptable commercial accounting proce-
dures. However, such accounts would be set up to facilitate the retrieval of
cost accounting and project evaluation data, as well as for audit control.
All the accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, mutually
acceptable to NCS, FMG and the Bank. Audited annual accounts, balance sheets
and operating statements for FPMU and PMEU would be submitted simultaneously
to NCS, FMG and the Bank within four months of the closing of the financial
year. During negotiations, assurances to these effects were obtained.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01      The project being the first of its kind in the State would have
to be carefully controlled. Because of its size and responsibilities for
various development aspects not normally associated with any one Government
Ministry, it would need a degree of autonomy    not normally given to Ministerial
Departments. Thus, the project would be implemented by the Funtua Project
Management Unit (FPMU), headed by a Project Manager who would be responsibile
to the Funtua Project Executive Committee (FPEC); the chairman of which would
be the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
of NCS. FPMU would have its headquarters at Funtua, the Divisional town and
center of the project area. FPMU would coordinate its activities with other
similar projects at a Federal level through a Federal Coordinating Committee.
As a condition of loan effectiveness, the North Central State Executive Council
would gazette an order, mutually acceptable to FMG and the Bank, establishing
FPMU, setting out its terms of reference and responsibilities. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations (a draft proposal for the
gazetted order is at Annex 6, Schedule 2).
6.02      Funtua Project Executive Committee would, inter alia, determine
policy, coordinate project activities with those of associated State Ministries
and Departments, exercise buidgetary and audit control, approve the appoint-
ment of professional grade staff, and review and set salary scales. FPEC
would meet at least once a quarter and would comprise: the Permanent Secretary
MANR as Chairman, and representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Local Gov-
erment, Works, Economic Planning, and NCS Water Board, a representative of
the Federal Department of Agriculture, Chief Agricultural Officer for the



- 17 -
North Central State, and two members residing in the project area to be
appointed by the Military Governor. The Project Manager would be Secretary
of FPEC.
6.03      A Federal Coordinating Committee would be established to review the
progress of the Funtua and similar projects in the northern States. It would
provide coordination between other Bank-financed agricultural projects of sim-
ilar nature in northern Nigeria, and would insure a full exchange of ideas
and results. In its review of project progress, it would be aided by the
evaluation section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU). The
committee would meet at least twice a year and would comprise: The Director
of the Federal Department of Agricultural (FDA) as Chairman; Chief Agricul-
tural Planning Officer (FDA) as Secretary; a representative from the respective
project executive committees; Project Managers of Funtua, Gombe and Gusau;
Director of the Institute of Agricultural Research, the Head of the Evaluation
Section of PMEU, representatives of NAB and NPMC; and representatives of the
Federal Ministry of Finance. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that a Federal Coordinating Committee would be established, with terms of
reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank within 3 months of loan
effectiveness.
6.04      Project Administration would fall under the direct responsibility
of the Project Manager for all operational procedures and actions. He would
be responsible to FPEC. The FPEC, in consultation with the Project Manager,
would appoint one of the senior project staff as Deputy Project MIanager. The
Project Manager would be assisted by: Chief Administrative Officer, Chief
Accountant, Chief Technical Officer, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer,
and Credit Manager (Annex 6, Schedule 3 provides details of the tasks of key
personnel). A summary showing the functions of the project's six operational
sections follows:
(a) Administration Section would be responsible for all project person-
nel matters, staff transportation, registry, security and public
relations.
(b) Finance Section would be responsible for project accounts, pro-
curement, stores, internal audit, budget control and would set
up systems to provide accurate cost accounts for evaluation and
management purposes.
(c) Technical Services Section would be responsible for farm extension
advice, staff and farmer training, seed multiplication, farm
management advice to larger farmers, and tractor hire services.
The main development effort would be through the extension service
and structurally it would consist of five development unit centers
based on the District towns of Funtua, Malumfashi, Faskari,
Kankara and Bakori, each headed by a Development officer, 1/
1/   Normally the minimum grade of the officer filling this post would be that
of agricultural officer. Hlowever, in the early stages of the project, it
is likely that most of the posts would be filled by agricultural superin-
tendents.



- 18 -
who would supervise agricultural assistants (AA) posted to farm
service centers in each of the 77 villages of the project area.
Each AA would supervise an average of four agricultural instructors
(Al) who would live in the hamlets associated with each village
and who would work with the hamlet farmers and their committees.
In this way, the extension system would be tailored to the trade-
itional village structure.
(d)  Credit Services Section.  Credit services would work parallel with
the extension services. Credit Officers would be posted to Devel-
opment Unit Centers, and two Credit Assistants to each farm
service center.
(e)  Market Services Section would monitor the existing marketing system
liaise and provide market information for buyers and farmers, con-
trol the activities of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA), and supervise
the work of produce examiners (PE). A Marketing Supervisor would
be assisted by two Marketing Assistants posted to each Development
Unit Center and a Produce Examiner would be posted to each market.
Market Services would be responsible for the logistics involved in
procurement of farm inputs and for their distribution and handling.
As such, the produce examiner would carry out the functions of
store keeper when the markets are closed.
(f) Engineering Services Section would be a specialized service
responsible for land use planning, road construction, water devel-
opment, soil conservation, building supervision and workshop
management. It would prepare tender documentation for procure-
ment of engineering equipment and supplies, supervise building
contractors, and implement all construction aspects of the project
not undertaken by contractors. It would maintain project vehicles
and equipment.
6.05      Field evaluation would be directed by the evaluation section of the
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU).  The field enumeration staff
would be administratively responsible to the Project Manager. Details of the
field unit are at Annex 9.
B. Staffing
6.06      Both Federal and State Governments recognize the need for qualified
and experienced staff to administer the project and assure high technical
standards in its field implementation. The northern States are generally
short of qualified personnel to fill key project management and senior
technical posts, and the demand for personnel with such expertise is high.
NCS is fully aware of the problem of staffing the project adequately and
is prepared to recruit staff internationally where qualified Nigerian personnel



- 19 -
are not available. Medium level technical and administrative staff needed
for the project are generally available in Nigeria, though not necessarily
in the North Central State. Most lower level staff needs would be met from
within the State: existing civil servants; or the output of existing training
schemes; or staff recruited and trained directly by the project.
6.07      Management Staff.  International recruitment is expected to be
necessary for the Project Manager, Chief Accountant, Credit Manager, Chief
Engineer, and Chief Technical Officer. The Chief Admnistrative Officer and
Chief Marketing Officer would be Nigerian appointments. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of appointees to the above posts would be mutually
acceptable to the Bank and to NCS. A condition of effectiveness would be
that the Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Accountant,
Chief Engineer and Chief Technical Officer had been appointed.
6.08      High Level Technical Staff.  Nigeria is critically short of experi-
enced technical personnel. Given the shortage of experienced and available
technical staff it is likely that two farm managers, a seeds officer, an
animal husbandry officer, a farm management advisor, a land use planner, a
road engineer, a mechanical engineer, a water and soil conservation engineer
and a senior evaluation officer would have to be recruited internationally.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that their qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank and NCS.
6.09      Medium Level Staff.  Professional officer (eg Agricultural Officer)
or senior technical officer (eg Agricultural Superintendent) grades would be
recruited from within the State or from other States in Nigeria. All field
technical, credit and marketing service staff would be required to be Hausa
speaking. Miedium and lower level staff exist, although many are assigned
currently to non productive posts.   During negotiations assurances were ob-
tained from NCS that at least 2 Agricultural Officers, 13 agricultural super-
intendents and 51 agricultural assistants or experienced agricultural instructors
would be made available to the project during the first two years.
6.10     tWhere possible project staff, particularly agricultural staff,
would be appointed to the project as Government employees on full pensionable
service. Expatriate staff and other Nigerian staff such as engineers, credit
and marketing personnel would be appointed on three year contracts renewable
on negotiation. Salaries would generally follow acceptable Government scales.
Every effort would be made to avoid transfer of staff away from the project,
except on the grounds of unsuitability, and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that transfers of senior staff into and from the project organi-
zation would be undertaken only after consultation with FPEC.
6.11      Project staff of technical grades (or equivalent) and above would be
provided with project housing both at Funtua and in the field. Non technical
grades such as agricultural instructors (Al) and produce examiners (PE), as
well as clerks, drivers, messengers etc. would be expected to find their own



- 20 -
accommodation in the towns and villages. At the discretion of project manage-
ment, staff would be provided with project transport. Project staff would
qualify for normal Government allowances. Annex 10 tables 3-4 gives details.
Due to expected delays in construction of houses, costs are included for
renting private accommodation (Annex 10, Table 6).
6.12      Annex 9 details staff requirements for the evaluation section of
PMEU. During negotiations assurances were obtained that senior appointments
to the evaluation section of PMEU would be suitably qualified and appointed
on terms and conditions acceptable to FMG and the Bank.
C. Staff Training
6.13      FPMU would undertake the training of lower level staff through
special courses at project training centers (para 4.09). The trainlng. of
higher level staff would be undertaken on an inservice basis. FPMU woudd pay
particular attention to training selected staff to fill managerial positions
as these are vacated by internationally recruited personnnel (see Annex 6,
Table 1-3 for possible schedule) and would undertake as requested to train
staff to be employed for other NCS development projects. Such staff would
receive practical management training on the project and would have the
opportunity of decision making at various levels within the project, but
would retain executive responsibility for their own section of the project.
NCS and the Bank would ensure that adequate training of potential manage-
ment staff was undertaken, and FPMU management would report regularly on the
progress of project training.
D.  Farm Inputs - Procurement and Distribution and Credit Procedur.4s
6.14      The project would be responsible for the procurement, distribution
and sale, for cash or credit, of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers,
oxdrawn equipment, tractors, and other necessary farm supplies; and would
decide on the suitability and composition of any package of inputs offered
to farmers. It is expected that 75% of seasonal inputs and 100% of farm
equipment would be sold on credit. The value of inputs sold during the
project life is estimated at N10.6 million for fertilizer; N4.5 million for
insecticides, seeds, and batteries; and N 3.0 million for farm equipment;
a total of N18.1 million. The net cash requirement for inputs would be
N11.4 million of which N5.3 million would be the NCS subsidy on fertilizers.
Annex 7 describes farm inputs and their procurement.
6.15      Project marketing services would be responsible, on advice of the
technical staff, for the procurement of farm inputs and for the logistics
involved in their handling within the project area.



- 21 -
6.16      Currentlv NCS subsidises nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers
bv between 30 and 50% of their cost delivered MANR store. The actual rate
depends on the efficiency and cost of NCS handling. Under the project
farmers would receive nitrogenous and phosnhatic fertilizer at 50% of cost
cif farm service center. Such a subsidy is justified (a) as an incentive
for farmers to use fertilizer, 1/ and (b) to compensate for generally low
marketing board prices offered for statutory marketed crops. During loan
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the present subsidy on fertilizers
would be maintained. Currently insecticides receive a 50% subsidy. However
as usage is insignificant at present and the benefits of their use clearly
discernible and profitable insecticides would be sold to farmers at their
full cost.
Farm Credit
6.17      The organization of the delivery and recovery of farm credit is
described in Annex 8. The net incremental credit requirement and gross credit
disbursed during the five year project period is estimated at N4.7 million
and N9.8 million respectively.
6.18      FPMU would set up a revolving credit fund to be operated by the
Credit Services Section of the project. Prior to the beginning of each plant-
ing season, a schedule of proposed lending terms would be furnished by FPMU
to FPEC, which in consultation with appropriate Nigerian authorities and the
Bank would apply the lending terms for the said season. Interest rates for
sub loans would be between 5-9 1/2%, and would be determined on a basis of
the category of farmers or type of inputs to be provided. Assurances to
these effects were obtained during negotiations.
6.19      As a basis for preparing crop budgets shown at Annex 1, it is assumed
that FPMU would lend at a flat service rate of 10%, a charge that can be
afforded by the farmers and would include sufficient margin to cover bad debts
etc. Repayments would be made for seasonal loans within 12 months; sprayers
over 2 years; ox drawn equipment over 3 years; and tractors and implements
over 4 years. Except in cases of crop failure, when a moratorium would be
declared by FPEC, a borrower not repaying his loan by the due date would be
charged a penalty of 1% per month. Funds have not been specifically provided
under the loan for cash credits to cover the employment of farm labor; as it
is considered that any additional labor requirements would be met from within
the Family unit, particularly as the project is directed towards the small
family operated farm.  Hlowever, in the light of current changes in Nigeria,
specifically the advent of compulsory free education, the need for hired
labor may increase. During the project life FPMJ in association with PMEU
would establish the parameters, if any, for cash credits, and the logistics
involved in their disbursement and collection. If the findings are positive,
the Government and the Bank would agree on the utilization of local funds or
disbursements from undisbursed portions of the Bank loan.
1/   The gross cost of fertilizer is high in northern Nigeria, and to induce
the farmer to use more fertilizer subsidies are an added incentive.
Fertilizer subsidies are general throughout Nigeria.



- 22 -
6.20      The revolving credit fund is an intimate part of the project, and
of necessity has to evolve into a more permanent institution so that farmers
can utilize its funds after the project is completec7.  Such an institution
rihlit take t'he form of cooperatives, farmer finance companies, or branches
of state or national credit banks.  So as to ensure a proper transfer of re-
sponsibilities, the Fvaluation Section of PIMEX would, as one of its duties,
determine the future institutional form of the fund, taking into account the
performance of existing lending institutions and the needs of the farmers.
6.21      Operating procedures, which are described in Annex 8 would be
subject to modification as necessary, would be devised by the project credit
service but would include the following essential components: lending would
be limited to input items carried by the project at its service center stores,
and be in amounts specified on a simple farm management plan drawn up for
each borrower by extension service staff. Sale of items would be recorded
on a bookkeeping machine. As the farm service centers develop into the main
markets for cash crops, farmers would be encouraged to repay their debts to
FPMU at time of sale.  All borrowers would lhave a laminated identity card
containing their photograph, serial number, and signature or mark to
facilitate identification and record keeping.
6.22      The creditworthiness of each loan applicant would be certified by
lis hamlet or village head, or a project approved farmers association; this
would be part of the mutual guarantee policy that FPMU would pursue. Under
this, once a year FPM' would review all hamlet accounts, and where defaults
were found the village, hamlet or farmer association authorities, whichever
the smallest unit, would be informed of their defaulters and urged to collect
from defaulters, unless due cause is presented for default. If defaults
were not made good, FPM would withhold credit to all farmers in the default-
ing unit.  It is believed that this teclnique would be a powerful influence
in avoiding default, under northern Nigerian circumstances. Provision would
b)e made to extend credit to groups or to village farmer associations if
farmers wish to pool the input requirements and assume joint liability for
the credit.
VII. PRODUCTION, .MARKEMTS, FARMERS' BEN4EFITS AND
FINANCIAL IMPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT
A. Yields and Outputs
7.01      The complexity of cropping mixtures and patterns in the project
area make yield variations between farms inevitable and substantial. It has
been assumed, however, that by project maturity in 1980 project area farmers
would fall into one of two or three categories for each of the five crops
that would be influenced by the prcject. The categories would be determined



- 23 -
by the extent to which the farmer had taken up improved practices.  Details
are given in Annex 1.  Yield improvements and increases in gross production
due to project actions are summarized for eacli of the five crops:
-----Before Development------After Development
Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.    Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.
(ha)   (kg/ha)  ('000 m tons)   (ha)   (kg/ha)  ('000 m tons)
Seed Cotton    90,540       270            24       99,050      600          60
Sorghum        120,0000     750            90       91,200   1,060           97
iTaize           5,000       900            5       32,500   2,000           66
Groundnuts      32,500      480            16       35,250      790          28
Cowpea           3,80()     200             1        5,000      670           3
7.02      Yield improvements are conservative and fall well within experimental
and field results obtained in northern Nigeria and other similar ecological
zones elsewhere in West Africa. The proposed crop inputs to achieve these
expected increase hlave been well tested, and are economic. Further details
are at Annexes 1 and 3.
B.  Markets and Prices
7.013      Currently food crops grown in the project area are marketed via
rural r,arkets.  Mfarketing is not efficient since although local competition
mav 'De strong, the market open to the farmer is very small and only a fraction
of the national market. The main defects spring from the fragmented nature
of the marIket and farmers' lack of both accurate information and bargaining
power; the project would seek to rectify this position (details are given in
Annex 12, paras 38 and 39).
7.04       Following an FMG announcement in early 1973 statutory marketing of
cotton and groundnuts together with other cashl crops in Nigeria is undergoing
a series of organizational chIanges whichi include: (a) federal responsibility
for producer price determination and support price policies; this could lead
eventuallv to subsidization of primary and secondary marketing operations by
FMG; (b) albolition of producer taxes; (c) closer relationslhip between world
and producer prices and thlus an end to indirect taxation through accumulation
of surpluses by the IMarketing Boards; and (d) the Northiern States Marketing
Board (NRS,5B) becoming an agent for the N4igerian Produice ilarketing Company
(;NfC), the latter wholly oined by FMG now being the price controlling and
setting organization- within the statutory system.  Thle reforms are being
effected and the 1974 producer prices reflect the actual world market situa-
tion, and should provide considerable production incentives.
7.05      As thiere is need for considerable improvement in primary marketing
the project would take various measures to improve marketing in general. !Jore
specifically, the project would provide improved weighing and measuring devices



- 24 -
an(d village storage facilities, and would relocate markets to improve the ease
of crop marketing. For the statutory crops a number of marketing reforms would
be necessary, such reforms initially to be confined to the project areas in-
clude: (a) timely announcement of producer prices; (b) provision of adequate
funds to LBA for produce purchase; 1/ (c) establishment and enforcement of
quality standards; and (d) disciplining of inefficient or dishonest LBA and
produce inspection staff.
7.06      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(i) NCS would cause the NSMB to pay particular attention
to efficient produce buying within the project area;
and
(ii)  where necessary encourage groups of farmers to operate
as Licensed Buying Agents within the Project Area.
7.07      Producer prices for industrial and export crops, such as cotton and
g,roundnuts, are expected under the new PFG policies to improve during the
early years of the project, but would then be expected to decline by 1980 in
line with prices projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. Food crop prices are expected to decline somewhat from present
levels in consequence of more intensive cereal production in the project area
buLt are expected to remain substantially above world (export parity) prices.
The crop budgets shown in Annex 1 and farmers' budgets discussed below use
projected 1980 producer prices, expressed in 1974 constant Naira, as shown in
the following table:
1/   The Funtua Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union Ltd has LBA Status,
and would under the project receive, as and when warranted, the necessary
support to improve its marketing operations.



- 25 -
Present and Future Prices for Project Crops
(N/metric ton)
Cotton   Groundnuts  Maize  Sorghum  Cowpeas
fob          fob      cif      cif       cif
Nigerian Port
1972                      490          156        50      47
1973                      520          220        80      77
1980                      636          156        69      63
Financial Producer Price
1972                      110           68         -       -        -
1973                      130           93         -       -       95
1980                      203           93        86      90       91
Economic Producer Price
1980                      268          129        76      74       99
C. Farmer Benefits
7.08      Farmers participating in project activities would obtain substantial
direct income benefits through utilizing project services and inputs. Addi-
tional indirect benefits due to improved roads, water supplies, soil conserva-
tion and marketing would accrue to all farmers within the project area.
7.09      Estimated direct benefits have been calculated on a per ha basis
for the five principal crops. The summarized crop budgets below indicate
the overall benefits of improved technology over traditional practices, and
in particular show the possibilities of maize as a major cash crop within
the area.
Level of Technology
Traditional             Intermediate       Advanced
........................ .Naira .
Net Return/ha, ex-cluding
Labor costs
Cotton                       47.7                107.0  (1.7) /1  157.5  (1.8)
Groundnuts                   43.0                 75.7  (1.1)    
Sorghum                      65.9                110.8  (3.5)       187.4  (3.5)
Iiaize                       75.9                120.3  (2.0)       234.5  (4.4)
Cowpeas                      16.5                 48.7  (1.8)          -
/1   (  ) incremental return to incremental labor requirement (N/manday).



- 26 -
7.10      The report has made no attempt to produce a typical farm budget
since farm sizes and production combinations vary considerably throughout
the project area, and any such budget would not be realistic. Instead,
expected farmer benefits have been derived from a series of crop budgets for
1 ha units of production. Project actions would result in measurable addi-
tions to net family incomes totalling N9.7 million per annum in 1980. Stud-
ies undertaken in areas similar to the project show net farm incomes includ-
ing income from livestock and the value of produce consumed to be in the order
of N175 (US$266) per family or about N27 (US$41) per capita. The net income
for the five project crops accounts for about N143 (US$217) per family. The
additional net income derived from the improved output of the five crops
would be N96 (US$146) per family, an increase of 67%. The average per capita
income would increase from US$41 to US$63. Such an improvement infers a
carowth in net farm income of 8% per annum and would appear feasible given
efficient project management.
D. Financial Implication for Government
7.11      The cash flow for NCS is summarized in Annex 11, Table 2.  The
average cost to NCS inclusive of loan servicing, would be about M5.5 million
annually until 1995. Thereafter the cost would be reduced to N3.4 million
annually. Considerable reductions, in Government support finance, could be
made if and when the fertilizer subsidy is reduced or totally removed; such
savings would an-ount to N2.1 million annually. NCS could further recoup
up to N4.7 million when the revolving credit fund is institutionalized, there-
by allowing NCS to retire part or all of its capital. The recent abolition
of produce taxes on statutory crops throughout Nigeria, including cotton
and grondnuts, would result in NCS receiving no tangible financial benefits
from the project.
7.12      The Federal Government would, through secondary or teritiary mul-
tiplier benefits, conservatively estimated for Nigeria at between 8 to 20%,
collect indirect taxation revenues of about N 1.5 million annually.
VIII.  ECONOTaC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in farm production that it would generate, and which would result
directly in higher incomes for some 60,000 farm families, and better living
standards for a further 40,000 who would benefit through the improved
infrastructure and marketing arrangements within the project area. If the
non-farming population, traders, laborers, etc. are included, then about
900,000 people would in one way or other receive primary or secondary benefits
througl project activities.  The economic rate of return from investment in
the project is estimated at 41%.  Important assumntions used in the calcula-
tion at Annex 13 are:



- 27 -
a.   a shadow wage rate of N 0.40 per 6 hr man/day,
as against the official rate of N 0.60;
b.   the exclusion of identifiable taxes from economic costs;
c.   a shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.27 per N 1.00 as
against the official rate of US$1.52 per N 1.00;
d.   economic farm gate prices for 1980 in 1974 constant Naira
as projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Division (para 7.07) based on export parity for groundnuts
and cotton and import substitution for maize, sorghum and
cowpeas; and
e.   the exclusion of water and associated soil conservation
development costs, and project evaluation costs, since
the benefits attributed to them are intangible.
8.02      If no ajustment is made for the shadow rate of foreign exchange,
the economic rate of return would be reduced to 32%. It is possible that the
project might not meet the proposed production targets for a number of reasons,
including poor management, lack of farmer response, and the possible failure
of delivery of farm inputs due to uncontrollable circumstances; and as such
it is important to test the economic rate of return against various levels of
reduced production and the associated reduction in farm inputs, allowing all
other factors to remain constant. This analysis, detailed in Annex 13 is
summarized below:
Production levels as percentage of estimated
Project Output
100%     90%      80%    70%      60%    50%
Economic rate of
return %: SFE /1      41       37       32      13      23      18
AFE /2      32      28       25      21      17      12
/1   Shadow Foreign Exchange rate
/2   Actual Foreign Exchange rate
3.03      The project would have important secondary benefits that would
accrue both to the people of the project area, and for the State and Federation
as a whole.  The more important ones would be for:
a.   the people of the project area would benefit from:  (a) a
general improvemcnt in communications and public utilities,
due to project actions initiating change and providing a



- 28 -
basis for extending, by other Government institutions,
social improvements including health and education; (b) an
expected increase in local trade that would offer better
opportunities of employment for the non-farming population;
and (c) the strengthening of local institutions including
the local authorities and local departments of Government.
b.   the North Central State would benefit principally through
part of its population being stabilized and becoming more
productive. Increased net employment accounting for 12,000
man years per annum would result from projected actions.
The State would be able to use the project to test new
development ideas that could, if successful, be easily
transposed together with trained staff to other areas.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources would
be strengthened, and would derive from the project new
credit and marketing techniques that could be easily
applied to other State farmers. The project would set
up a seed multiplication center that would provide seed
to other farmers elsewhere in the State. Finally the pro-
ject would produce additional raw material and would demand
additional input resources to support the growth of the
State's industrial expansion.
C.   the Federal Republic of Nigeria would benefit from annual net
incremental foreign exchange earnings amounting at full pro-
duction to about N14 million (US$21 million). Project eval-
uation through the project established evaluation unit would
provide a wealth of information that could assist in deter-
mining Federal agricultural policy, and resource and finan-
cial allocations throughout Nigeria.
3.04      Even though the economic rate of return appears very favorable;
in the long run indirect tangible benefits and intangible benefits may prove
far more valuable than direct tangible benefits. Improved farm management
practices and profits to farming would far outlive the project. A step would
be taken in the right direction to reduce income disparity, and to ensure a
more even food supply for Nigeria's urban populations and expanding commercial
livestock industries.  Perhaps most importantly the people of the project
area would have the peace of mind that would come from more assured water
supplies in the dry season, the added confidence in an improved marketing
system, the satisfaction of a little more money to spend, and the hope that
they and their children would live a little better in the future.



- 29 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurance were obtained from FMG that:
(a) arrangements acceptable to the Bank would be drawn up between
FMG and consultants, acceptable to he Bank, setting out the
terms of reference for the evaluation section of PMEU and
the services to be provided by the consultants (para. 4.13);
(b) audited annual accounts for the evaluation section of PMEU
would be prepared by independent auditors, mutually accept-
able to rMG and the Bank, and would be submitted simultane-
ously to FMG and the Bank within 4 months of the closing of
the financial year (para 5.12);
(c) the Federal Coordinating Committee would be established
witlh terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the
Bank within 3 months of loan effectiveness (para 6.03);
(d) senior appointments to the evaluation section of PMEU would
be suitably qualified and appointed on terms and conditions
mutually acceptable to FGN and the Bank (para 6.12);
9.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from NCS that:
(a) any future ginning agreement would not adversely affect
present arrangements as to the production, marketing or
ginning of cotton within the project area (para 3.08);
(b) management responsibilities for Daudawa and Malumfashi seed
farms together with their assets and staff would come under
the care of FPII (para 4.08);
(c)  Katsina Local Authority or any other appropriate agency
would maintain roads and water supplies provided under the
project (para 4.15);
(d)  FPEC would be responsible for approval of FPMU annual budgets
and monthly cash flow statements, and FPMU would be authorized
to operate on such monthly statements unless officially in-
formed to the contrary by the Chairman of FPEC (para 5.10);
(e)  when necessary adequate guaranteed draw-down procedures would be
made with a bank of its choice to allow FPNLI full access to funds
within the limitation of the approved annual budget (para 5.11);
(f) audited annual accounts for FPMU would be prepared by indepen-
dent auditors, mutually acceptable to NCS and the Bank, and



- 30 -
would be submitted simultaneously to the Bank, NCS and FMG
within 4 months of the closing of the financial year (para 5.12);
(g) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the Project Manager, Chief Accountant, Credit
Manager, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief
Technical Officer and Chief Administrative Officer would be
acceptable to the Bank and NCS (para 6.07);
(h) two farm managers, a seeds officer, an animal husbandry
officer, a farm management advisor, a land use planner, a
road engineer, a mechanical engineer, a water and soil
conservation engineer and a senior evaluation office would
be appointed with qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to the Bank and NCS (para 6.08);
(i)  a minimum of 2 agricultural officers, 13 agricultural super-
intendents and 51 agricultural assistants or experienced
agricultural instructors would be made available to the
project during the first two years (para 6.09);
(j) transfer of senior staff into and from the project would be
undertaken only after consultation with FPEC (para 6.10);
(k) the present subsidy on nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers
would be maintained (para 6.16); and
(1) interest rates for subloans could be between 5- 9 1/2%, and
prior to the beginning of each planting season a schedule
of proposed lending terms would be furnished by FPMU to
FPEC, which in consultantion with appropriate Nigerian
authorities and the Bank would apply the lending terms for
the said season (para 6.18);
(m)  (i)  NCS would cause the NSMB to pay particular attention to
its efficient produce buying within the project area,
and (ii) where necessary encourage groups of farmers to
operate as Licensed Buying Agents within the project
area (para 7.06).
9.03      Retroactive financing would be available for the employment of key
personnel (para 6.09) appointed as from date of loan negotiations amounting
to no more than US$150,000 (para 5.06).
9.04      Conditions of effectiveness of loan would be that:
(a) NCS would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that
a project bank account with adequate funds had been estab-
lished (para 5.11);



- 31 -
(b)  North Central State Executive Council had officially estab-
lished FPEC and FPMU with terms of reference and responsibil-
ities mutually acceptable to the Bank and NCS (para 6.01); and
(c) the Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief
Accountant, Chief Engineer, and Chief Technical Officer
would have been appointed (para 6.07).
9.05      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for a US$29 million loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.






ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Farm and Crop Development
A. General
1.        The major crops in the project area are sorghum and millet, cotton,
groundnuts and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize, sugarcane, chilies and
okra. Production data for cotton and groundnuts are compiled from purchases
by the Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) (Tables 1 and 2). No pro-
duction data are available for other crops; nor is there other than qualitative
information on farmers' yields, farm sizes or cropping patterns. However,
a detailed economic survey of three villages within 60 km of the project area
has been carried out and published recently. 1/ Ecological and sociological
conditions are comparable in many respects between the two areas and, for this
reason, the survey has been used as a basis for the formulation of assumptions
on present and projected farming activities.
2.        Cattle, sheep and goats are kept throughout the project area by
farmers, and in substantially larger numbers by semi-nomadic pastoralists
(Fulani). The latter utilize fallow land (a rapidly diminishing resource),
forest and grazing reserves, and crop residues for their livestock. They
exist in an increasingly uneasy symbiosis with settled cultivators as pressure
on land increases with rising populations. Livestock management systems are
generally poor and productivity is low. There are no reliable data on stock
numbers.
3.        Cultivations are carried out mainly by hand hoe and cutlass.  How-
ever, some 7,000 farmers (7%) are reported to own work oxen and equipment.
In 1972/73 some 150 ha were ploughed and some 400 ha were ridged mechanically
by MANR tractor hiring services.
B. The Influence of Climate on Cropping
4.        From May to October, the widgst range between mean monthly maximum
and minimum temperatures is 100° to 70  F (38  C to 21° C).  At project area
altitudes of 600 to 900 m cold spells do not cause any problems and rainfall
is the major factor for limiting crop growth. Monthly and annual data for
2 stations are given at Tables 3 & 4. Instead of presenting these in the
1/   An Economic Survey of three villages in Zaria Province, Samaru
Miscellaneous Paper 37, 1972: D.W. Norman



ANNEX. I
Page 2
traditional manner, they have been arranged in rank order to provide an
estimate of probability. Thus the modal value (half above and half below)
provides a demonstrable 50% probability not normally associated with arithmetic
averages. However, for a basically subsistence agriculture a more stringent
requirement is appropriate and an 80% probability has been chosen. At this
probability rainfall is still quite adequate for crop growth, and even April
can expect 0.8 inches. Rainfall distribution is critical to favorable pro-
duction, and the bumper crop years have always been associated with seasons
with extended rainfall at the beginning and end of season. Basically the
farmer is a pretty busy fellow who has limited resources for carrying out his
land preparation and subsequent cultivation. Thus eight years out of ten he
can expect sufficient rain in April to allow timely cultivations and subsequent
planting operations (see Table 5). If the sequence is broken then late planting
particularly of cotton and sorghum occurs which result in low yields. Thus
provision of ox drawn equipment should allow for more timely land preparation.
At the end of the season, sometimes in September, and certainly in October,
it is important to conserve soil moisture and reduce water runoff. Thus
water conservation measures such as contour bunding and the development of
better ground cover (such as closer planting of groundnuts) are all techniques
that should be encouraged. A progressive farmer, if taking such measures,
should have little difficulty in improving his level of output.
C. Farming Systems
5.        Although no detailed surveys have been carried out, field observ-
ations tend to support the findings of the Norman study 1/ which indicate a
mean farm size of 3.9 ha. This is somewhat larger than the size originally
estimated by staff of MAR, which is thought to be biased heavily towards
the relatively densely farmed area near Funtua.
Size of Farm Family
6.        Norman 1/ reports an average farm family of 8.5.  This is not
considered to be typical of the project area, where local opinion and published
statistics point to an average farm family approximating 6.5. Composition
is assumed to be as follows:
Small          Large          Female         Male         Total
Child          Child         Adult          Adult       Residents
1.7            1.0           2.2             1.6          6.5
Labor Availability
7.        Labor availability in mandays per day, on the basis of manday
equivalents used by Norman 1/ would be as follows:
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Small     Large      Female     Male
Child     Child     Adult       Adult    Total
Farm family                1.7        1.0       2.2         1.6      6.5
Manday equivalents          -         0.5       0.75        1.0
Available mandays           -         0.5       1.65        1.6      3.75
In the Zaria study 1/ male adult labor accounted for 80 percent
of the total family labor input; female adult labor was insignificant.
Thus, assuming 50 percent availability of labor from the large child in an
average farm family, daily labor availability would approximate 2.0 mandays.
8.        Labor requirements assessed by Norman 1/ on traditional methods of
cultivation, which imply mixed cropping and low yields, appear to be low
relative to data on similar crops grown under comparable conditions in other
areas. Substantially higher labor requirements have been assumed for proposed
project crops as shown in the model crop budgets (Tables 6 through 10).
9.        Adequate labor profiles are not available and, while it appears
that total labor availability (at 2.0 manday equivalents per day) is adequate
for the average small farm there may be seasonal labor shortages, particularly
at planting and weeding periods in some peasons. However, the project would
appeal primarily to the more vigorous and efficient farmers and for this reason,
labor availability is not regarded as a serious constraint to development.
Cropping Patterns
10.       Intercropping is commonly practiced in a wide variety of combin-
ations. The cropping pattern of a "typical" farm, on the basis of adjusted
areas of sole crops might be as follows (ha):
Sorghum                         1.20
Millet & other Cereals         0.50
Cotton                         0.90
Groundnuts & Cowpeas           0.45
Others & Fallow                0.85
Total                  3.90
11.       This pattern may be expected to change as a result of the project
which would promote sole cropping and the introduction of improved production
practices for cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas, and would result
in changes in areas planted to different crops. Overall farm size would not
be affected by the project, however the amount of land in fallow each year
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
is likely to decrease. This decrease in fallow is currentlv resulting in
marked decline in soil fertility, particularly in areas furthest from the
homesteads which receive no farm yard manure. Some of these deficiencies
would be made up in the short term by supply of fertilizers, and in the long
term through the introduction of pasture. A summary of changes in cropping
patterns follows:
Total    Gross       % of Cropped  Total    Gross
CROP    Farmers  Area (ha)        Area       Farmers  Area (ha)  % Cropped Area
Cotton
Trad.     95,600    85,550          22         51,500    36,050           9
Imp.       3,000      3,150          1         27,000    63,000          16
Sorghum
Trad.    100,000   120,000          31         51,000    61,200          16
Imp.        -          -            -          60,000    30,000           8
i4aize
Trad.     20,000      5,000          1         20,000      5,000          1
Imp.      NIL          -             -         47,500    27,500           7
Groundnuts
Trad.     50,000    32,500           9         25,500    12,750           3
Tmp.        -          -             -         30,000    22,500           6
Millet
100,000    55,000          14       111,000    55,000          14
Cowpeas
20,000     3,800           1        20,000      5,000          1
Fallow & Others
85,000         21                   72000         19
390,000        100                  390,000        100
12.       The anticipated effect of the project on the five crops selected
for development, viz cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas is
considered in subsequent paragraphs. Proposed improved practices are defined,
and their likely impact analyzed in terms of area, numbers of growers and
production on a crop by crop basis.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Cotton
Background
13.       Cotton of the improved Allen type (Gossypium hirsutum) has been
grown in the nroject area for the past half century. Production fluctuates
widely due to the effects of climate and producer price. The mean level in
recent years approximates 24,000 tons of seed cotton, some 16 percent of
mean total production from the northern States (Table 1), and 83 percent of
Katsina Province production.
14.       Seed of improved varieties produced at the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR) at Samaru is bulked up at the Daudawa seed multiplication farm
(see map) before distribution to farmers throughout the northern States.
15.       Seed supplies are provided free by the NSMB at a series of dumps
throughout the project area. Seed for planting is treated at the ginnery
against Bacterial Blight (Xanthomonanas malvacearum) which is endemic to the
area. Any one of three dressings: mercurial (3 percent) at 1:180; copper
(45 percent) at 1:180; or Bronopal (12 percent) at 1:170, are effective and
mav be used.
Variety
16.       The present variety, S71 has been selected to yield highly and
to meet the needs of the textile industry. UJnder farmers' conditions,
yields average no more that 240 kg of seed cotton per ha, about 10% of the
variety's yield potential. Its main characteristics are shown below:
Ginning percentage                34 to 36
Fibre length (32nds of an inch) 31 to 33
Fibre strength (g per ton)         20.9
Yarn strength (40's) CSP /1       2386
/1   Count Strength Product
Recommended Production Practices
17.      RPesearch carried out by IAR at Samaru and at outstations has given
rise to a set of recommended practices for the crop. These presuppose a low
level of technical assistance to farmers and do not reflect optimal production
conditions. More advanced techniques including the use of ultra low volume
(ULV) spraying for insect control are being tested under farmers' conditions
at several sites in the project area. They are likely to be fully approved
for use on a field scale under the conditions proposed for the project in
the near future.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
18.       Land should be ridged on the contour at 0.91 m (3 ft) centers,
and 20-25 cm (8-10 in) high. Ridges should be completed to allow for planting
in mid June. 6-8 seeds should be sown 2.4 cm (1 in) deep at 45 cm (18 in)
along the top of each ridge. 100 kg of boronated single superphosphate should
be applied broadcast before ridging (0.7 kg/ha of boron). Three weeks after
planting, 100 kg of calcium ammonium nitrate per ha should be applied close
to planting holes. Plants should be thinned to two per stand about three
weeks after planting and preferably after a good rain, to minimize the effects
of root disturbance. Weeding and ridge maintenance should be undertaken before
weed competition is serious. Normally three weedings are required.
19.       The cotton crop is attacked by a range of pests at different
stages in the growing period.
(a) Period between germination and flowering:
No major pests, Aphis gossypii may occur but seldom
build up to serious proportions.  Empoasca spp occur
but as the cotton is bred for jassid resistance no
serious damage is caused.
(b) Period of flowering and boll growth:
Pests of vegetation include the mirid Campylomma which
can be serious, Lygus which is less serious, Sylepta
derogata (F) (tlhe cotton leaf roller), various grass-
hoppers, leaf hoppers, and leaf eating bettles occur in
August and September and are of varying seriousness
depending on the season. Pests of the flowers and bolls
include stainers, mainly Dysdercus superstitiousus (F)
but also D. Fasciatus, and the red bollworm Diparop8is
watersi (Roths) which are usually more serious than the
American bollworm lleliothis armigera (Hb), the spiny
bollworm Earias insulana (Boisd) and Earias biplaga (Wlk),
the False codling moth Cryptophlebia leucotreta (5eyr) and
the pink bollworm Pectinophora gossypiella (Sound).
(c) Pests of bolls after the rains:
Bollworms (particularly the red) and adult stainers
increase until the bolls have matured.
20.       Ideally insecticidal applications should be timed according to
pest identification in the field. Since spotting of eggs demands considerable
skill and where pest identification may not occur, a precautionary spray start-
ing at 6 weeks after germination would ensure the protection of the earlier
bolls. Thereafter a succession of sprays would be undertaken and it is likely
that the advanced farmers wqould repeat the sprayings about 6 - 8 times.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
21.       Harvesting should begin in October and be continued at regular
intervals to prevent boll spoilage. Picking should aim to avoid dirt, trash
and stained or damaged lint in order to qualify seed cotton for purchase as
Grade 1. All plants have to be uprooted and burnt by March 1, and no cotton
can be planted until June 1.
Project Proposals
22.       Increased production is expected to derive partly from increased
area planted but mainly from the adoption of new techniques.
23.       Area expansion over the project period is expected to be from 90,000
ha in 1975 to 100,000 ha in 1979, an increase of 2.5 percent annually. This
would come mainly from natural population growth but there would be some area
redistribution. It is estimated that the average farmer currently grows 0.9
ha of cotton. At the end of the project period those using "advanced" tech-
niques are expected to handle about an average of 1.3 ha; those using inter-
mediate techniques an average of 1.0 ha; and those continuing to use tradi-
tional methods, 0.7 ha, providing an overall average of 1.26 ha per farmer.
24.       Adoption of new techniques would be at two levels.  The use of
early planting, sole cropping, fertilizer and ULV spraying for insect control
is described as "advanced."  Such measures would result in yields averaging
1,100 kg seed cotton per ha.  The intermediate grower with more limited
resources would be unlikely to plant near the optimum date and is expected
to use about half of the inputs of the advanced farmer and would average
Kg 720/ha.  Currently little or no spraying is carried out due to lack of
supply of inputs and very limited and sparsely located suppliers of water
required for the conventional high volume water based insecticides. During
the last three seasons ultra low volume sprayers (ULV) have been tested within
the project area and have proven successful.  They are also being used in an
IDA financed project in Malawi, as well as in other East African countries
with success. In East Africa the option for the use of high volume sprayers
exist; in the project area, due to difficulties in locating good groundwater
any large expansion of production using high volume spraying teclniques is
out of the question. During the 1971/72 season in Mozambique 11,000 ha of
VLV sprayed cotton averaged Kg 666/ha as against 36,000 ha of unsprayed cotton
averaging 262 Kg/ha. The insecticide to be used would be endosulphan, and
would be applied at a rate of 3 liter/ha per spray.
25.       Majority of farmers plant late and as such even under ideal condi-
tions of management the cotton crop would not yield at optimum levels since
the top bolls would not set. However, in order to assure the setting of
the bottom bolls it is essential that the farmer commences spraying before
the flower buds appear. As a crop insurance this should be at 5 weeks after
germination and continue at 10 day intervals for as much as 6 weeks, but
depending on the likelihood of continued crop production confined almost
entirely to the setting of the bottom bolls. The following table sets out
the proposed levels of technology:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Level of Technology        Traditional  Intermediate           Advanced
Variety                   Improved      Improved S 71      Improved S 71
Plant population/ha       18,000        36,000             48,000
Fertilizer apolication   nil            50 kg calcium      100 kg calcium
/ha                                     ammonium           ammonium nitrate
nitrate
nil          50 kg boronated   100 kg boronated
single super-      single super-
phosphate          phosphate
Insecticide control/ha   nil            3-4 sprays ULV    6-8 sprays
insecticide        ULV insecticide
endosulphan        endosulphan
Anticipated yield of      240           720                1,100
seed cotton kg/ha
Tables 6 and 11 provide per hectare budget, and phasing of uptake of
improved practices.
E. Sorghum
Background
26.       Sharing with bulrush millet, 1/ the role of the traditional grain
staple of the Hausa people, sorghum is grown widely throughout the project
area.  White to yellowish grained, open headed Guinea race types, known
locally as Farafara, predominate. The grain is normally ground to a coarse
flour and eaten as porridge. The stalks, which are seldom less than four
meters in height, are used for a variety of purposes of which building and
fencing are among the most important.
27.       Under the traditional system of cultivation, mean yields are said
to approximate 750 kg of threshed grain per ha, but they vary widely in
response to intensity of intercropping, soil and climatic effects. No data
are available on sorghum production in the project area. Nevertheless, it
is safe to conclude that the crop is grown on all holdings, alone or in a
variety of mixtures.
1/   Research work to date has yielded little information on methods for
improving yields of millet, and existing varieties do not show economic
responses to fertilizer, therefore the project would not at this stage
take action to improve the production of millet.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
28.       Norman's studies 1/ indicate that sorghum occupied approximately
30% of total area planted and, whilst most commonly grown in a two crop
combination with bulrush millet, was also planted alone or with up to four
additional crops. Using this as a basis, it can be calculated that some
120,000 ha of sorghum are planted in the project area which, at an average
yield of 750 kg/ha, would produce some 90,000 tons or about 9% of estimated
production from North Central State.
29.       Although its effects have not been quantified, the parasitic weed
Striga hermontheca is probably the most significant pest of sorghum. Others
include a range of stalk borers, but particularly Busseola fusca, and Sorghum
'lidge Contarinia sorghicola. Mlajor diseases include Downy Mildew, Sclerospora
sorghi, a variety of leaf diseases causing spotting and striping, and a number
of smut diseases, mainly of the genus Sphacelotheca. The latter are to a
considerable extent controlled by seed dressing with copper fungicides which
are readily available commercially.
30.       As befits a staple grain, sorghum is normally planted on the main
farm in close proximity to the homestead. Prior to planting land is plowed
and ridged by hand hoe or occasionally mechanically, at approximately 0.9
meters between rows and varying distances within rows according to inter-
cropping practices. Sorghum is planted in the project area in Ntay/June,
after such crops as early millet.  Two or three weedings and earthings-up
are normally carried out. The crop flowers at the onset of the dry season,
in late September/early October, and matures, utilizing residual soil moisture,
by late November/December.
31.       The stalks are cut near ground level and stacked in the field after
removal of the heads, which are hundled and stored in mud plastered granaries
(rumbus) in the farm compound. Heads are removed from the granaries as
required for domestic consumption or for sale following threshing. Storage
losses are variable, one estimate is that on average 20% of the crop is lost
in store, and though control methods involving granary sanitation and the use
of insecticides liave been developed, they are not commonly used.
Recommended Practices
32.       Research on sorghum has been carried out in the northern States of
Nigeria for the past 20 years. Higher yielding varieties have been selected
from local types. A number of dwarf varieties and hybrids have also been
developed. This work has been accompanied by investigations including time
of planting, spacing, and fertilizer responses. Improved local varieties
grown under improved agronomic practices showed yield gains over traditional
types of six to 25 percent (averaging 18.6% or about 240 kg/ha) in over 90
trials planted at different sites in main sorghum production areas up to 1970.
Such increases are of little interest to farmers. The main thrust of sorghum
research is now directed towards production of high yielding dwarf varieties
1/   Op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
and lhybrids. '.laterial now available has a yield potential under field condi-
tions of around 2,500 kg/ha and 4,000 kg/ha from dwarf varieties and hybrids
respectively. The grain from these types is not yet widely acceptable for
human food in rural areas but it can be sold readily in urban areas for human
and livestock food.
Project Proposals
33.       Total sorghum production in Nigeria has been estimated to approx-
imate four million tons per year, of which between five and ten percent is
marketed. Prices have risen overall in the past three years. However, any
major production increase could be expected to result in a marked fall in
price. This situation is unlikely to arise in the near future - in the light
of the ineffectiveness of existing extension, input supply and credit services
in the northern States as a whole. Within the proposed project area, however,
there are good opportunities for promoting some increase in sorghum produc-
tion, utilizing available technology and proposed project services, despite
the fact that many farmers are likely to continue to grow at least some local
sorghum under traditional cultivation methods. In addition to the switch from
traditional to improved varieties of sorghum that is envisaged, it is also
believed that a substantial amount of land which in the past has been used
to grow sorghum will, under the project, be used for maize, see para 38.
34.       Two levels of improved technology have been assumed, based upon
results from field trials and research recommendations.
Level of Technology        Traditional         Intermediate       Advanced
Variety                    local              dwarf            hybrid
Plant Population/ha        19,200             34,800           48,000
Fertilizer application   nil                  100 kg of        200 kg calcium
in kg/ha /1                                   calcium ammonium ammonium nitrate +
nitrate + 100   100 kg single
kg single super- superphosphate
phosphate
Borer control /2          nil                 nil              nil
Anticipated yield of       750                1,700            2,500
threshed grain (kg/ha)
/1   At the advanced level of technology, two thirds of the nitrogenous
fertilizer would be applied as a side dressing about four weeks after
planting. The other fertilizer would be broadcast and worked in before
planting.
/2   No recommendations are currently available; insecticidal dusting with
lindane or its equivalent may well prove to be economic however.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
35.       In addition to the major elements indicated, farmers would be
advised on field preparation, Dlanting methods and other improved practices
by project extension staff. Tables 7 and 12 provide details of per hectare
budget and production nrojections.
F. Maize
Background
36.       Although well known, maize is presently a minor crop in the project
area. Cultivated mainly in crop mixtures on swampy areas (fadamas) primarily
as a vegetable for eating green - boiled or baked on the cob - it is unlikely
that total area exceeds 5,000 ha.
37.       High yielding, short season maize varieties and hybrids have been
developed recently by IAR and other researchers in the northern States. Their
promising performance under Northern Guinea zone conditions have created marked
interest in maize as a grain crop for the area. Trials at Daudawa under dif-
ferent levels of plant population and fertilizer rates using variety (096)
Bulk 3 gave yields ranging from 2,000 to over 7,000 kg/ha of threshed grain
depending on the level of treatments applied. Responses under farmers'
conditions in adjoining Zaria province in 1969/71 ranged from 1,400 through
2,400 to 4,000 kg/ha using comparable treatments. Planting material with
further improved yield potential is in course of development and is likely to
be available for multiplication and distribution to farmers within two years.
Project Proposals
38.       These facts and the observation that the yellow grained varieties
produce meal which is an acceptable (some say a preferred) substitute for
sorghum meal in traditional porridge in North Central State, indicate that
the probability that the maize area and production could be increased markedly
under the project. Recent trends in maize prices, the burgeoning urban popu-
lation in the southern States, and the increasing demand for livestock feeds
and for industrial maize products provide further justification for maize
promotion under the project. Probable area increases are expected to be at
the expense of sorghum and millet, and would occur mainly on the farms of
more progressive farmers. An expected increase in maize area from 5,000 to
32,500 ha of which 7,500 ha would be grown at the advanced levels on plots
averaging 1 ha, 20,000 ha (61 percent) would be grown under intermediate
technology on 0.5 ha plots and 5,000 ha (15 percent) would be grown under
traditional systems on 0.25 ha plots. About 20,000 farmers are expected to
grow maize within the project (Table 8 shows per hectare budget).
39.       Levels of technology selected for application in the project area
have been based on field trials and practices advocated by workers at the
IAR. They are summarized in the following table.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
Levels of Technology    Traditional   Intermediate           Advanced
Variety /1               local         composite           composite
Plant population/ha    19,200         34,800               48,000
Fertilizer (kg/ha)      nil           100 kg of calcium  300 kg of calcium
ammonium nitrate + ammonium nitrate +
150 kg of single   200 kg single super-
superphosphate      phosphate + 50 kg
Muriate of Potash +
trace elements
Borer control kg/ha    nil            nil                  6 kg 5% DDT granules
Projected yield of      900            1,750               3,500
shelled grain in kg/ha
/1   Presently recommended varieties such as 096 (Bulk 3) and hybrids of Biu
Yellow (BY) with other parents, such as BY x C-20, may well be superseded
by 1974.
G. Groundnuts
Background
40.       Groundnuts (Arachis hypogea) are grown throughout the project area
but are of greatest commercial importance in drier, northern locations which
are climatically.less well suited to cotton production. Production levels
may be inferred from purchases by the NSMB which have averaged 14,000 tons
annually in recent years (Table 2).
41.       The Nigerian groundnut crop is grown primarily for oil and average
kernels contain about 47% oil with a Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content of 2 to
3 percent. Yields of groundnuts grown under traditional systems, which include
multiple intercropping, wide spacing and late planting, vary considerably but
are probably of the order of 480 kg/ha of shelled nuts. At this yield level
and accepting the above production assumption, area planted, on a sole crop
basis is about 32,000 ha. The high labor requirement and the present com-
Paratively unattractive returns from the crop probably limit groundnut plot
sizes to about 0.5 ha on farms which grow the crop for sale to the NSMB.
42.       A long series of agronomic trials and a number of selection and
breeding programs by staff of the IAR have resulted in the formulation of a
package of recommended practices for groundnut production. These regularly
lead to a doubling of kernel yields over traditional practices. M1ore advanced



ANNEX 1
Page 13
technologv, including the use of fungicidal sprays to control cercospora leaf
soot disease is still under investigation and may be available for dissemina-
tion in the near future. However, a number of questions still attach to the
teclhnical and economic viability of certain advanced techniques.
43.       For these reasons, only one level of improved technology has been
suggested. This approximates to the practices recommended by ERLS. The
practices proposed, vwhich are outlined below, would be fostered by the pro-
vision of a physical package of inputs including seed, seed dressing, fertilizer
and advice. This would follow the lines of a successful groundnut seed pro-
duction project in neighboring Kano State.
44.       The proposed level of improved technology would incorporate timely
planting, i.e. shortly after the first rains, on land which has been prepared
as for cotton (para 18). Fertilizer, single superphosphate at 75 kg per ha,
should he applied as a band in the old furrows before splitting to make new
ridges. Seed would be of the variety S61 which should be shelled shortly
before planting and dressed with Aldran T or Fernasan D against seed and soil
borne diseases. Seed should be planted at two every 23 cm (9 in) on the top
of the ridges i.e., a seed rate of 40 kg/ha. By so doing, the foliar cover
achieved would be invaluable in preventing run off during the heavy rainfall
in August. Furthermore, after the early weeding and earthing, such ground
cover would reduce the frequency of weeding which must cease once pegging 1/
starts. Harvesting should begin immediately the crop reaches maturity. Pod
damage should be avoided by careful lifting. The crop should be dried by
inverting plants on the ridge i.e. with pods uppermost for about six days.
Thereafter the pods should be handpicked and transported to an appropriate
site for decortication. Care is needed, particularly in lifting, drying and
picking to avoid the creation of conditions favoring the development of the
fungus Aspergillus flavus, responsible for the carcingogen, aflatoxin, which
has been transmitted on mouldv groundnuts.
Project Proposals
45.       The improved groundnut technology proposed for the project is already
well established. Its rate of spread has been limited largely by the in-
adequacy of technical assistance and input supply services. For these reasons,
the rate of uptake under the project is expected to be rapid. By Year 5 (1979),
some 30,000 farmers are expected to be using the improved technology.
Level of technology             Traditional            Improved
Variety                        local                IAR selected
Plant population/ha            27,000               48,000
Fertilizer                       -                  75 kg/ha of single
superphosphate
Projected yield kernels        480                  960
kg/ha
Details on crop budget and production projections are shown at Tables 9 and
14.
1/   Shoots whlich eventually bear the groundnut turn down into the soil prior
to pod formation.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
H. Cowpeas
Background
46.       Cowpeas (vigna unguiculata) occupy an important place in traditional
Nigerian diets both in the North and South. They provide valuable vegetable
protein for subsistence farmers and some cash income when surplus production
is sold. The crop is seldom planted sole and normally forms one part of a
number of crop mixtures of varying complexity. Under these circumstances
yields vary widely. Further, because of the range of insect pests to which
it is susceptible both before and after flowering, yields rarely average more
than 200 kg/ha of shelled peas. Local varieties have both upright and spreading
characteristics; those producing a pale (whitish) colored seed are preferred.
47.       Research on the crop has isolated major insect pests and established
the importance of their control for increased production. Major pests include
Ootheca mutabilis, a leaf eating beetle, Alcidodes leucogrammus, a weevil
which, in both the adult and larval forms, causes stem girdling, Maruca
testulalis, the larva of which bore into and feed on young flowers causing
them to drop, Rezotrachelus varium, a weevil which lays its eggs in green pods
wherein the larvae feed and pupate within the seeds. Further, a number of
bugs in the order Hemiptera feed on green pods causing premature drying and
shrivelling.
48.       Improved practices, including sole cropping, the use of improved
upright varieties, phosphatic fertilizer and insecticidal spraying result in
ten fold yield increases over traditional yields. The latter treatment on
sole cropped cowpeas is the most significant. Present recommendations are
for six weekly sprays containing 20 percent DDT and two percent gamma BHC at
the rate of 5.5 liters of concentrate mixed in 109 liters of water per ha.
This recommendation is under review following investigation of ULV techniques.
Project Proposals
49.       No data are available on the area presently planted with cowpeas
but it is unlikely that the crop is grown widely in sole stand. The project
would introduce cowneas as a sole crop to those farmers who wished to grow
cotton using improved and advanced techniques since such farmers would already
own IJLV sprayers and be competent in their use. It is not expected that large
plots would be planted, and a mean size of 0.25 ha has been assumed.
50.       One level of technology is proposed.  Its main element is summarized
below and is compared with the traditional system.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Traditional          Improved
Cropping                 Mixed                Sole
Variety                  Local                Local
Type                     Upright or           Upright
spreading
Spacing                  Variable             30 cm x 2.5 cm
Fertilizer               Nil                  50 kg single
superphosphate/ha
Insect control           Nil                  ULV spraying as
recommended by IAR
Average yield            200                  900
shelled peas (kg/ha)
51.       It is expected that uptake of improved technology would closely
follow cotton development since materials, equipment and techniques for
spraying cowpeas approximate those used for cotton, and the benefits are
considerable. For these reasons it is expected that most farmers with one
season's experience of spraying cotton would also grow cowpeas with project
advice and assistance. Furthermore, a small proportion could be expected to
introduce improved technology to their cotton and cowpea crops simultaneously
(for detailed budget and crop projections see Tables 10 and 15).
I. Summary
52.       Absence of basic data on actual farming systems, let alone the
profitability from individual crops, severely hampers assessment of project
effects on a farm family income and therefore no attempt has been made to
formulate model farm budgets for before and after farm development, since
they would be purely hypothetical and as such could lead to wrong conclusions.
Instead comparative data on a per hectare basis is shown in the following
tables.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Level of Technology            Traditional   Intermediate   Advanced
------------ N A I R A --------------
Net Return/ha - (With
all Labor Costed)
Cotton                      24.52            69.81        110.30
Groundnuts                   4.64            25.68           -
Sorghum                     31.90            71.62        139.38
Maize                        38.25           73.90        182.50
Cowpeas                     (9.50)           15.50           -
Net Return/ha - (All
Labor Costs Excluded)
Cotton                      47.72           107.01        157.50
Groundnuts                  43.04            75.68           -
Sorghum                     65.90           110.82        187.38
Maize                        75.85          120.30        234.50
Cowpeas                     16.50            48.70           -
Level of Technology            Traditional   Intermediate   Advanced
-____-------N/Manday ---------------
Net Return to Labor
Cotton                       0.82             1.15         1.33
Groundnuts                   0.45             0.01          -
Sorghum                      0.78             1.13         1.56
Maize                        0.81             1.04         1.80
Cowpeas                      0.25             0.59          -
Net Incremental Return to
Incremental Labor Require4ents
Cotton                                        1.69         1.83
Groundnuts                                    1.13          -
Sorghum                                       3.46         3.47
Maize                                         2.02         4.41
Cowpeas                                       1.79          -



ANNEX I
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Seed Cotton Purchases by the Northern States Marketing Board by Years (long tons)
'000 long tons
Northern                      Katsina
Year                        States                       Province
1960/61                     149.0                       29.9
1961/62                      83.4                       13.8
1962/63                     144.0                      30.3
1963/64                     128.6                       33.3
1964/65                     128.7                       24.9
1965/66                     127.3                       26.2
1966/67                     146.4                       31.2
1967/68                     75.5                        13.5
1968/69                     166.3                       33.8
1969/70                     271.6                       63.6
1970/71                     111.4                       24.1
1971/72                     108.6                       23.1
1972/73                     142.6                       31.2
MEANS                       137.1                       29.1
Mean as % Northern
States purchases            100.0%                      21.2%
1/ Derived from National Agricultural Development Committee, Report of the
Study Group on Cotton and other Fibers, Lagos 1971.



ANEX 1
Table 2
NIG1IA
if RTH CEL  ST.ATE
Funtua Agricultural Developkent Project
P oj;e=01t           Mt tPur       ; NQ         StAt,e
-atketing Board 1689.7l (tons}
Inspection Station                    1968/69     1969/70       1970/71       1971/72
Dan Kanjiba                              -              89            89
Kankara                                 2,601        2,4j73       2,567
Funtua                                  8,803        2,383        1,902
iMalumf,shi                             8,600        5,159        6,412
Yargoje                                   249          142           603
Bakori                                   -             -             J59
Project Area Total                     20,253      10,246        11,727
Northern States                       770,917     645,381       281,000       301,000
Percentage of Northern
States purchases                      2.6         1.6           4.2           -



ANNEX 1
Table 3
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANK ORDER OF MONTHLY RAINFALL AT FUNTUA (inches)
ANNUAL MODAL 4Li.59 INS = 1132 mm
17 YEARS
p   Jan  Feb Mar  Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug   SeP    Oct iNov Dec Annual
1.00          0     0      1.46   3.88   4.42   %107   2.68   0            33.00
.94         0     0.32   1.48   3.96   4.97   9.19   3.17   0             34.30
.88         0     0.36   1.76   4.24   5.41   10.22  5.19   0             37.05
.82         0      0.57   2.22   5.05   6.32   10.27  7.77   0            3.-53
.76         0     0.65   2.47   5.39   7.87   10.40  8.06   0             39.55
.70         0     0.85   2.89   5.52   8.13   11.63  8.07   0.04          40.84
.65         0      0.99   3.57   5.81   8.20   11.66  8.26   0.13         43.36
.59         0      1.12   3.79   6.19   8.53   11.91  8.37   0.20         44.28
.53         0      1.2   47       .38          11.93   .    0.33          44.-9
.47          0     1.68   4.91   6.92   9.05   12.02  8.75   0.41         46.14
.41         0.20  2.09   4.93   7.05   9.49   12.41  9.55   0.57          47.94
.35         0.48  2.15   5.19   7.19   11.59  14.11  9.80   0.94          48.26
.29         0.51  2.34   5.60   7.45   11.90  14.29  10.03  1.47          48.42
.23         0.73  2.52   5.95   8.64   12.63  15.56  11.61  2.79          56.19
.18         1.05  2.60   6.99   10.64  13.29  16.72  11.80  3.76          58.51
.12         1.07  2.69   7.53   10.92  16.00  17.25  12.17  4.56          59.25
,06          2.17  4.19   9.86   16.32  16.03  18.36  14.11  6.03         59.79
6.21  26.74  75.35 121.55 162.69 217.00 147.97  21.23
Arithmetic) Ins         0.36  1.57   4.43   7.15   9.57   12.76  8.70   1.25
Average mm           9    40      112    182    2.13   324    221   32
5%0 % Modal Ins      0     1.40   4.35   6.55   8.79   11.96  8.56   0.30
mm             35    130    166    223   304    217    8
80 7. {Ins            0.50   2.12   4.t1   6.64   10.31  6.62   0
ramm           13     54     122    169   262    168    0



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Daudawa - Inches
17 years
(Annual Modal 38.38 inches-960mm)
p   Jan Feb  Mar   Apr   May    Jun    Jul   Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov Dec  Annual
1.00 0    0   0     0      1.37   1.59   3.58   7.50   3.46   0               23.45
.94  0    0  0     0.46   1.70   2.91   4.27   8.95   3.58   0                28.94
.88  0    0   0    0.65   1.92   4.01   5.59   9.05   4.94   0                33.55
.82  0    0   0     0.90   2.18   4.15   6.82   9.19   5.59   0               35.35
.76  0    0   0     0.94   2.23   4.24   8.26   9.42   5.70   0               36.35
.70  0   0   0     0.97   2.33   4.34   8.49   9.64   6.10   0.07             37.15
.65  0    0   0    0.99   2.56   4.35   8.53   9.89   6.39   0.17             37.30
.59  0   0   0.01  0.99   2.75   4.79   5.60   10.11  6.96   0.32             38.03
.53  0   0   0.07  1.40   3.21   6.17   8.72   10.21  6.99   0.95             38.38
.47  0   0   0.11  1.55   3.27   6.24   8.73   11.06  7.31   1.07             39.43
.41  0   0   0.11  1.61   3.37   7.28   9.25   12.60  7.34   1.13             40.83
.35  0    0   0.13  1.71   3.95   7.70   9.52   12.61  7.43   1.26            41.05
.29  0   0   0.16  2.03   4.08   8.74   9.56   12.79  7.46   1.66             41.39
.23  0    0   0.35  2.26   4.92   9.19   9.77   12.93  7.83   1.96            44.34
.18  0   0   0.70  3.00   5.19   10.00  10.11  13.52  9.28   2.15             47.31
.12  0   0  0.93  4.56   5.22   10.13  11.54  13.60  9.45   5.30              4&.02
.06 0.06 0.70 1.16  4.66   6.47   10.81  11.83  14.82  9.71   5.30            53.54
Totals           .06  .70 3.73  28.71  56.72 106.7li 143.17 187189 115.52  21.34
Arithmetic Ins   0.003 0.04 0.22 1.69   3.34   6.27   8.42   11.05  6.79   1.25
Average   mm           1   6     43     85     159    214    281    172    32
50   M Modal Ins   0   O   o.o6  1.28   3.01   '.';1  1).66   10.58  7.13   0.68
rrurm    -    -   1  32    76      1)O   220    269   '1&1    17 
80 /,,     Ins            0     0.79   2.07   4.72   6.92   9.23   5.32   0
M   20    52      67     176    234    135    0



ANNEX 1
Table 5
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RAINFALL EXPECTATION FOR FUNTUA
Based on 17 Years
Solid Lines for 50 Percent Probability
Hst*Nng Lhw for 80 Percent Probability
SUCCESSION OF CROP PLANTING, MATURATION AND TIME TO HARVEST
4-                 MILLET
4-                SORGHUM
4                 GROUNDNUTS
INCHES/MONTH                                  4                  COTTON                      MM/MONTH
12                                                                                          305
10                                                                                          254
8                                                                                          203
6                                                                                          152
4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t102
51
APRIL      MAY       JUNE      JULY      AUGUST  SEPTEMBER  OCTOBER
World Bank-8223



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Cotton Budget N
-------------- Actual--------------------          ----------Incremental----------
I               II               III                   II              III
Farm Category  1/
Yield seed cotton (kg/ha)                  240              720             1,100                   480             860
Gross return at N 203/kg                    48.72           146.16            223.30                 97.44          174.58
Ex.penditure
Labor 2/
Cultivations                        (46)    18.40    (47)   18.80   (47)       18.80    ( 1)          0.40   ( 1)    0.40
Fertilizer application                       -        ( 8)    3.20   (12)       4.80    ( 8)          3.20   (12)    4.80
Spraying                                     -        ( 2)    0.80   ( 4)       1.60    ( 2)          0.80   ( 4)    1.60
Harvesting (20 kg/manjday)          (12)     4.80    (36)   14-40   (55)       22.00    (24)          9.60   (43)   17.20
Sub-total                      (58)    23.20    (93)   37.20  (118)       47-20    (35)        14.00   (60)   24.oo
Crop Inputs   3/
Tools                                        1.00             1.00              1.00                  -
Fertilizer: Id 4/                            -                5.40             10.80                 5.)0           10.80
P205  5/                                         5.o5             10.10                  5.05           10.10
Insecticide   /                              -               16.20             32.40                 16.20           32.40
Sprayer  7/                                  -                8.60              8.60                  8.60            8.60
Battery Set                                  -                2.90              2.90                  2.90            2.90
Sub-total                               1.00            39.15             65.80                38.15           64.80
Total Expenditure                      24.20            76.35            113.00                52.15           88.80
Net Return
With labor                                  24.52            69.81            10.30                  45.29           85.78
Without labor                               47.72           107.01            157.50                 59.29          109.76
Fer manday                                   0.82             1.15              1.33                  1.69            1.83
1/  Cat. I = traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II = use of Fertilizer and insecticides at I, the level of
Cat. I1I farmers.
?/  Labor costed at shadow wage rate for family and paid labor at N 0.4 per manday (6 hrs) - ( ) indicate number
of mandays.
3/  Crop input costs include interest rate at 1C% except Cor tools in Cat. II and III.
j/ Nitrogenous fertilizer costed as calcium ammoniur. nitrate Cat. III rate 100 kg/ha @ a subsidized cost of
N 108.0/m ton.
5/  Phosphatic fertilizer costed as boronated single superphosphate Cat. III rate 100 kg/ha at a subsidized cost              X
of N. iOO.8/m ton.                                                                                                          e
6/  C-t. III rate TR Titers (e-dosulphan) per hectare r N 1.T  per liter.
I/ Sprayer, gloves etc. - average life 2 years, costed over 2 years including interest.
Ju3y 30, 1974



NIGERIA
N4ORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Sorghum Budget N
---------------Actual-------------------    -----------Incremental-----------
l/                    I               II             III               II               III
Farmer Category   /
Yield threshed grain (kg/ha)           750             1,500          2,500             750              1,750
Gross return at N .090/kg               67.50            135.00         225.00           67.50             157.50
Expenditure
Labor                                                                    3
Cultivation                       (73)  29.20   (76)      30.40  (84)   33.60    ( 3)    1.20    (11)        4.40
Fertilizer applications            -     -       ( 5)      2.00  (12)    4.80    ( 5)    2.00    (12)        4.80
Harvesting                        (12)   4.80   (17)       6.80  (24)    9.60    ( 5)    2.00    (12)        4.80
Sub-total                     (85)  34.00   (98)      39.20 (120)   48.00    (13)    5.20    (35)       14.00
Crop Inputs -
Tools                                    1.00              1.00           1.00            -                   -
Seed  4/                                 0.60              1.58           4.22             0.98               3.62
Fertilizer:  N  5/                                        10.80          21.60           10.80              21.60
P205  6/                    -               10.80          10.80            10.80              10.80
Sub-total                            1.60             24.18          37.62           22.58              36.02
Total Expenditure                   35.60             63.38          85.62           27.78              50.02
Net Returns
With labor                              31.90             71.62         139.38            39.72             107.48
Without labor                           65.90            110.82         187.38            44.92             121.48
Per manday                               0.78              1.13           1.56             3.46               3.47
1/  Cat. I = traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II = intermediate using fertilizer and improved dwarf
sorghum from local varieties; Cat. III = advanced farmers using higher application of nitrogen and in some
instances hybrid seed.
2/  Labor costed at shadow wage rate for family and hired labor e N 0.4 per manday (6 hrs) - ( ) indicates No.of mandays.
3/  Inenu9e-J Lnterest rates at 10%, except for tools in Cat. II and Cat. III.
j/  Cat. II seed 12 kg/ha P N 0.132/kg, Cat. III seed 16 kg/ha rc N 0.264/kg.
Calcium ammonium nitrate Cat. II 100 kg/ha, Cat. III 200 kg/ha subsidised cost N 108.0/m ton.
§/  Single superphosphate Cat. II and III 100 kg/ha subsidised cost N 100.8/m ton.
July 30, 1974                                                                         -
- JH



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMiENT PROJECT
One Hectare MIaize Budget N
----------------Actual-------------------         --       Incremental---------
1/                 I                II                III                II                III
Farmer Category
Yield shelled grain kg/ha           900             1,750             3,500               850              2,600
Gross return P X  0.086Ag            77.40            150.50            301.00             73.10             223.6
Expenditure
Labor 2/
Cultivation                   (76)   30.40   (86)      34.40   (87)      34.80    (10)     4.00   (11)        4.40
Fertilizer application               -        ( 5)      2.00   (12)       4.80    ( 5)      2.00   (12)       4.80
Harvesting                    (18)    7.20   (25)      10.00   (31)      12.40    ( 7)      2.80   (13)        5.20
Sub-total                  (94)   37.60  (116)      46.40  (130)      52.00    (22)      8.80   (36)      14.40
Crop Inputs   3/
Tools                                 1.00              1.00              1.00              -
Seeds  _4/                            0.55              3.30              6.60              2.75              6.05
Fertilizer:  N  i                      -               10.80             32.4o     _      10.80              32.40
P205  6/                  -              15.10             20.20             15.-lo             20.20
K20                                                         630 6o6.3
Sub-total                         1.55             30.20             66.50             28.65             64.95
Total Expenditures               39.15             76.60            I18.50            37.45              79.35
Net Returns
With labor                           38.25             73k20            182.5      _                         1144.25
Without labor                        75.85            120.30            234.50              4.445            158.65
Per manday                            0.81              1.04              1.80              2.02               4.41
1/  Cat. I = traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II intermediate using improved composite seeds and medium level
ofc fertilizer; Cat. IIIcomposite or hybrid seed, higher fertilizer inputs and borer control.
2/  Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor f N 0.4 per manday (6 ha/day) - ( ) indicates no of mandays
3/  Includes interest rates of 10% on all items except for tools in Cat. II and III.
T/  Cat. II 25 kg/ha of composite; Cat. III 25 kg/ha of composite hybrid.
5/  Cat. II 100 kg of calcium ammonium nitrate/ha; Cat. III 300 kg calcium ammonium nitrate/ha at a subsidised cost    P3
of * 108.o mton.
/  Cat. II 150 kg of single superphosphate/ha; Cat. III 200 kg of single superphosphate/ha at a subsidised cost of   CD
N 100.8/m ton.                                                                                                         oCD 
Cat. III 50 kg of muriote of potash/ha - unsubsidised at N 125.2/m ton.
7/30/74   Cat. III 6 kgha 5% DDT granules at N 0.36 per kg.



ANNEX 1
Table 9
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Groundnut Budget
----------Actual ---------    -----Incremental-----
I/                      I                  II                 II
Farmer Category
Yield shelled kernels kg/ha              480                960                480
Gross return   N W .093                   44.64              89.28              44.64
Expenditure  2/
Labor:  Cultivation           (54)   21.60       (65)   26.00       (11)    4.40
Fertilizer
application                 -           ( 2)    0.80       ( 2)    0.80
Harvesting            (42)   16.80       (58)   23.20       (16)    6.40
Sub-total           (96)   38.4o      (125)   50.00       (29)   11.60
Crop Inputs: 3/
Seed T/                       1.60               6.00               4.40
Fertilizer P205/                                 7.60               7-
Sub-total                   1.60              13.60              12.00
Total:                     4°000              63.60              23.60
Net Returns
With labor                    4.64              25.68              21.0h
Without labor                43.O               75.68              32.64
Per manday                   0.1                0.61               1.13
1/  Category I farmer - traditional grower; Category II farmer - inproved
utilizing a package o.' seed and fertilizer.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor P N 0.4/manday (6 hr day) -
( ) indicates number of mandays.
3/  Includes 102 interest charge for Category II.
It/ 40 kg per hectare of improved seed cost N 0.15/kg - dressed.
5/  75 kg o^ single superphosphate per ha r a subsidized cost of N 100.8 per m ton.
July 30, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH MIT=  STATE
FUNTUIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Cowpea Budget N
------------- Actual----       ----                       --Incremental--
I                      II                                II
Farmer Category 1/
Yield shelled cowpeas kg/ha                200                   900                                700
Gross return at N 0.09/kg                   18.00                 81.00                              63.00
Expnditure
Labor 2/
Cultivation                        (49)     19.60         (5h)    21.60                      ( 5)     2.00
Fertilizer application                                    ( 2)     0.80                      ( 2)     0o80
Spraying                                                  ( 2)     0.80                      ( 2)     0.80
Harvesting                         (16)      6.40         (25)    10.00                      ( 9)     3.60
Sub total                (65)      26.00        (83)    33.20                      (18)      7.20
Crop Inputs 3/
Tools                                        1.00                  1.00                                 -
Seeds 4/                                     0.°5                  1.62                               1.12
Fertilizer 5/                                  -                    5.40                              5.ho
Insecticide 6/                                                    21.38                              21.38
Battery sets                                  -                    2.90                                2.90
Sub total                          1.50                  32.30                              30.80
Total                              27.50                 65.5o                              38.00
Net Returns
With labor                                  (9.50)                15.50                              -25.00
Without labor                               16.50                 48.70                               32.20
Per manday                                   0.25                 0Q59                                1.79
1/ Cat. I traditional growers; Cat. II is an improved cotton grower who uses his sprayer to spray co-wpeas also uses
fertilizer.
2/ Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N O.4/manday (6 hr day) - ( ) no. mandays.
3/ Include 10% interest for all inputs except for tools for Cat. II farmers.
I/ Local seed at 18 kg/ha @ N 0.09 per ha.
T/ 50 kg/ha single superphosphate at subsidised cost of N 100.8 per m ton.
4 4 sprays using ULV equipment for cotton.
August 20, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Cotton Prodcbction Projections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT           YEAR 1              YEAR 2             YEAR 3             YEAR 4            YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional          96,000             96,000             93,000             89,000              69,800            51,500   1/
Intermediate          2,700              3,600              8,550             14,400             21,650             24,000
Advanced                300                400                450              1,600               2,350             3,000
99,000            100,000            102,000            105,000             93,800            78,500
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional          86,400             86,400             74,400             62,300             48,850             36,050
Intermediate          3,1240             4,320             16,245             28,800             43,300             48,000
Advanced                900              1 200              1 800              8 000              11,750            15,000
90,540             91,920             92,440             99,100            103,900            99,050
PRODUCTION (metric tons)
Traditional          20,736             20,736             17,856             14,952              11,724             8 652   2/
Intermediate          2 333              3 110             11,696             20,736             31,176             34,560
Advanced                990              1 320              1 980              8 800              12,925            16,500
24,059             25,166             31,532             44,488             55,825            59,712
Average yield kg/ha    266                 274                341                449                 537               603
1/  Tradi ional area decline 0.9 to 0.7 ha; Intermediate increase 1.2 to 2.0; Advanced 3.0 to 5e0.                          Po
2/ Tradi:ional yield 240 kg/ha; Intermediate range 480-960 av. 720; Advanced 1000-1200 av. 1100 kg/ha seed m ton.   $ 8
3/  Plan :.ng seed requirement for 100,000 ha at 20 kg/ha = 2000 tons.                                                      CD



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum Production Projections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT           YEAR 1             YEAR 2             YEAR 3             YEAR 4             YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional          100,000             96,000             84,0o             70,000             60,000            51,000
Intermediate            -                 4 000             16,000             31,000             43,000            57,000
Advanced                 -   ._-                                500              1 000              2 000             3 000
100,000           100,000             101,000           102,000             105,000           111,000
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional          120,000            115,000            101,000             82,000             70,000            61,200
Intermediate            -                 5 000              8 000             16,000             21,000            24,000
Advanced                -           _                        1 000              2 000              4 000             6 000
120,000           120,000             110,000           100,000              95,000            91,200
PRODUCTION (metric tons)
Traditional           90,000             86,250             75,750             61,500             52,500            45,900
Intermediate            -                 7 500             12.000            24.000              31,500            36,000
Advanced                -                  -                 2.500              5,OOO             10,000            15,000
90,000            93,750             90,250             90,500             94.000             96,900
AVEIMIE YIELD kg/ha      750                781                820                905                989             1,063 3 B
P M



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FlITUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I-aize Production Projections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT           YEAR 1             YEAR 2             YEAR 3             YEAR 4             YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional           20,000             20,000             25,000             30,000             25,000            20,000
Intermediate            -                  -                 1 500             7 000              20,000            40,000
Advanced                -                  -                   200              1 500              5 000             7 500
20,000            20,000             26,700             38,500             50,000             67,500
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional          5000               5000               6250               7500               6250              5000
Intermediate          -                  -                  750              3500               10000             20000
Advanced              -                  -                  200               1500              5000               7500
5000              5000               7200              12500              21250             32500
AREA CHANGE            0.25               0.25               0.27               0.34               0.43              0.48/farmer
PRODUCTION (METRIC TONS)
Traditional           4500               4500               5650               6750               5625              4500
Intermediate            -                  -                 1312               6125            17,500             35,000
Advanced               -                  -                 700               4500             17Q500             26.250    w 3
4500              4500               7662             17,375             40,625            65,750    a te
AVERAGE YIELD/ha
m ton            0.90              0.90               1.0                 1.4                1.9               2.0



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
GROUNDNUT PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS - KERNELS
BEFORE THE
PROJECT           YEAR 1            YEAR 2             YEAR 3            YEAR 4            YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional         50,000            50,000             45,000            40,000             35,000           25,500
Improved               -                1 000             6 000            15,000             20,000           30.000
50,000            51,000            51,000             55,000            55,000            55,500
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional         32,500             32,500            27,000            22,000             19,250           12,750
Improved               -                 750              4 500            11.250             15,000           22,500
32,500            33,250            31,500             33,250            34,250            35,250
PRODUCTION (METRIC TONS)
Traditional         15,600             15,600            12,960            10,560              9 240            6 120
Improved               -                 :720              4320            10.800             14,400           21,600
15,600            16,320            17,280             21,360            23,640            27,720
AVERAGE YIELD kg/ha    480                491               548               642                690              786
IX-
I."



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
COWPEA PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS
BEFORE THE
PROJECT           YEAR 1             YEAR 2             YEAR 3            YEAR 4            YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional          20,000            15,000             13,000             11,000             9.000            7,000
Improved                -               5 000              7 000              9 000           11,000            13,000
20,000            20,000             20,000             20,000            20,000            20,000
AREA (hectares)
Traditional           3800              3750               3250               2750               2250              1750
Improved                                1250               1750               2250               2750              3250
3800              5000               5000               5000               5000              5000
PRODUCTION (metric tons)
Traditional            760               750                650                550                450               415
Improved                -               1125               1575               2025               2475              2925
760              1875               2225               2575               2925              3340
YIELD kg/ha            200               375                445                515                585               668
U1H






ANNEX 2
Poqe 1
NIGERIA
NORTI CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Project area, institutions and existing processing and marketing
A. Project Area
1.        Location.  Occupying a rectangular block of land between latitudes
11010' and 12°20'N and longitudes 6050' and 7°50'E, the project area covers
some 7,500 km2 or about 10% of the total area of the State. It comprises
the whole of the Funtua Administrative Division of Katsina Province in the
northern half of NCS, which includes the five southernmost districts of the
Katsina emirate. 1/ Map shows project area location within Nigeria.
2.        Climate.  Annual rainfall, confined almost entirely to the 6 months
April through September, is of the order of 1,100 mm (43 ins) with a 75 per-
cent probability of obtaining 1,000 mm. Between October and March, there is
virtually no rain; this long, dry season is rendered very harsh by hot dry
northeasterly "harmattan" winds blowing from the Sahara.
3.        Beginning in April, when there is a 50 percent chance of obtaining
35 mm of rain (1.4 in), through September which has a 50 percent probability
of more than 215 mm (8.5 in), rainfall distribution is well suited to a range
of annual crops. However, due to limitations in timely land preparations and
to a labor bottleneck at planting time, few farmers can plant all their crops
at the optimum time. Food crops are given priority over cash crops, and the
success of the latter is dependent on the farmer's residual input resources,
and because they are planted late, on the vagaries of climate; an early end to
the rainy season often vitiates most of the work put into these crops. The
problems are discussed in greater detail in Annex 1.
4.        Water.  There are few perennial streams in the area, and ground-
water supplies are severely limited by the presence of the impervious under-
lying basement complex. With increasing pressure on land, the flow period
of streams has diminished markedly. Wells commonly fail during the dry
months, leading to prolonged water shortages which are becoming an increas-
ingly critical issue for both human and livestock populations. Fortunately,
topography is such that construction of small reservoirs appears a practicable
solution to the water problem.
1/   The Emir of Katsina is the hereditary ruler of the project area.  Although
his legal powers have waned in recent years, he continues to wield
considerable influence.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Topography and Soils.  The area is underlain by rocks of the
basement complex, which is predominantly granite.  The landform is gently
undulating at an altitude of 600 to 900 m with occasional granite inselbergs.
Many small, ephemeral streams occur throughout the area.
6.        Leached ferruginous tropical soils are common with well developed
sub-soil horizons containing some 30% clay. Drainage ranges from good to
rather poor. In the southern half of the area, silt content is high which
leads to surface capping.
7.        Soils are weakly acid, with pH in the range 5.5 to 6.5 and are
deficient in nitrogen and available phosphate, particularly after prolonged
cropping. Attempts to maintain the fertility of farms close to settlements
is made by using animal manure at between two to three tons per ha. Recent
investigations have demonstrated an apparent boron deficiency and its solu-
tion, by the use of boronated superphosphate. Fertilizer responses by most
major crops have been established with some precision at low application
rates.  Field trials involving higher levels of application, mainly for
cereals such as maize and sorghum, are presently underway in the project
area.
8.        Vegetation.  Natural vegetation is savanna woodland typified by
Isoberlinia doka in association with grasses mainly of Andropogon and
Hyparrhenia species. Over much of the area the savanna has been replaced
following clearing and farming, bv parkland dominated by such trees as
Parkia clappertoniana and Adansonia digitata (Baobab). These trees are
protected by law and provide valuable dietary supplements from seeds and
leaves respectively. In wetter areas, which have been heavily farmed,
spear grass (Imperata cylindrica) is a troublesome weed. Additionally, the
parasitic weed Striga hemontheca causes significant yield reductions in
sorghum.
9.        Population.  The project area is occupied by people of the Hausa
tribe, most of whom are devout moslems. Literacy in English, Nigeria's of-
ficial language, and Hausa, the vernacular, is low among adults in rural
areas, but is rising rapidly with the younger generation. Available data
are scant. The last census, from which data are available was carried out
in 1963 and remains the best source of population data until the results of
the December 1973 census become available in detail later in 1974. Such
data will be of immeasurable value in detailed project planning and evaluation.
The only other possible source available at present, Local Authority returns
on numbers of tax payers, whilst collected annually vary in accuracy in
accordance with the diligence of the different officials charged with tax
collection responsibilities in the districts. Information from such sources
indicates only 60-80 percent of the adult male population that has been
imputed from census data. According to the census, population of the five
districts constituting the project area totalled 698,748 in 1963. Using a
growth rate of 2.5 percent annually, population of the project area currently
should be about 905,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       Data on numbers of persons per family in the project area are
also sparse. No demographic surveys have been carried out. However,
indications from tax data point to an average of 4.22. Local opinion
does not confirm this, suggesting that family size approximates 6.5
individuals. This figure in turn is lower than that obtained in a de-
tailed survey of three villages in Zaria Province, some 60 km south of
the project area. The latter arrived at a mean figure of 8.5 persons
per family. This is substantially higher than the figure suggested by
the Federal Office of Statistics for Zaria Province as a whole. Because
of the snread between family size derived from tax data on the one hand,
and a microsample in a neighboring province on the other, 6.5 was arbi-
trarily selected as representing average family size. This was in
accordance with local opinion and falls between the extremes otherwise
suggested. Thus, on the basis of a family size of 6.5, and a population
of 905,000, there are now estimated to be some 139,230 families in the
project area.
11.       Numbers of farming families were calculated on the assumption
that about 28 percent would be engaged primarily in non-agricultural
activities. This figure was derived from census data and observations
on non-agricultural activities in the area. On this basis, it is cur-
rently estimated that there are about 100,000 farming families in the
project area.
12.       The population is divided between five districts of Funtua Division
and resides in 77 village areas. The estimated situation in 1974 is as
shown below:
District                No. Village Area            Population
Funtua                         16                    229,000
Bakori                         19                    233,000
Malumfashi                     22                    228,000
Kankara                        12                    132,500
Faskari                         8                     82,500
TOTAL                  77                     905,000
13.       The social structure of the area is significant because of the
relative strength and influence of the hierarchical structure of the Local
Authority. The project comes within the jurisdiction of the Emir of Katsina
whose hereditary authority is delegated through salaried district heads and
village heads.
14.       Among their other functions, village heads are responsible for
village level administration of land tenure arrangements. The system is
based on Islamic law and on customary usufructory rights. In theory, it
provides for the allocation of such rights to land which is not yet so
allocated, to any native Nigerian who expresses the intention of settling
and using land within the village area. In practice, most land has been



ANNEX 2
Page 4
allocated to families, the heads of which suballocate to family members in
accordance with assessed need and capability.
15.       As representatives of the Local Authority, village heads have
considerable political influence within their areas. Although this influence
is being eroded in urban areas, such as the wards of Funtua town, it is still
considerable in the villages. For this reason, every effort would be made to
obtain the support of village heads for the project by acquainting them with
proposed and ongoing developments within their areas. District heads would
be similarly consulted and informed. Furthermore, as indicated in Chapter VI,
provision is made for Local Authority representation on the Project Committee.
16.       Farm Size.  Information on farm size is scant.  It is possible to
impute a possible mean farm size on the basis of assumed population, family
size and estimated area of cultivated land. The latter figure is estimated
by NCS at 390,000 ha or 52% of total project area. Given 100,000 farm
families (para 3.03), then average size of cultivated holding, i.e. exclud-
ing fallow, would be 3.9 ha. This figure is in reasonable accord with mean
farm size established by a detailed survey in a similar area some 60 km to
the south.
17.       There are some very large farms within the area.  These farms
would normally receive credit through commercial banks; the project would
help such large farmers by employing a farm management specialist to advise
them.
18.       Cropping Patterns.  Cropping patterns are dominated by sorghum and
millet as food grains, and cotton and groundnuts as the major cash crops. A
diversity of minor crops are grown. Local knowledge and socio-economic sur-
veys in neighboring parts of the northern States indicate that sorghum and
millet typically occupy 45-55% of cultivated areas, and cotton about 25-30%
in the southern two-thirds of the area. In the drier north, cotton tends to
give way to groundnuts. Minor crops, usually grown in mixtures with the
main cereals and cash crops, include maize, chilies, kenaf, okra and a range
of vegetables.
19.       Communications.  The project area is well served by main roads
(see map). Additionally, the Nigerian Railway Corporation has a spur line
from its main northern route, that runs from Zaria via Funtua to Kaura
Namoda in North West State. A major road runs parallel with the line through
the south and west of the project area.
20.       Unfortunately, the basic communication network barely extends be-
yond that described above. Minor roads are non-existent or in poor repair.
Communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the outside world.
Transportation of produce and inputs to rural areas is both difficult and
expensive. Attempts to improve the situation by self help activities and
by the Local Authority Works Department are hampered by shortages of funds
and executive capacity.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
B. Institutions
21.       Institutions that would be concerned with the project and their
relevant responsibilities are described in the following paragraphs.
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR).  MANR would
have responsibility for carrying out the project. The Ministry has representa-
tives of its four technical divisions within the project area, and it operates
cotton seed multiplication farms at Daudawa and Malumfashi (see map). While
the functions of its Field Services and Produce Inspection Divisions within
the area would be incorporated into the project organization, the administration
of the two other Divisions would remain unchanged. Thus, animal health, organ-
ization of grazing facilities 1/ and livestock improvement services, largely
for the semi-nomadic Fulani pastoralists, would continue to be provided by
the Veterinary Division; and the Forestry Division would continue its work,
which is concerned mainly with the regulation of reserved land, and planting
of woodlots. These functions would be largely unaffected by the project.
23.       The Ministry of Works (MOW).  Responsible for State-financed public
works program, MOW has limited facilities and a small technical staff deployed
within the project area; MOW is concerned mainly with road maintenance,
building construction, and the maintenance of State-financed structures.
Executive capacity relative to the State construction program is a major
limitant to its operations.
24.       The Ministry of Health (MOH).  Responsible for all aspects of human
health in the State, MOH is in the process of developing its services and
facilities. A Rural Health Center to provide simple treatment services for
both in and out-patients has been completed at Funtua. This will provide
the referral link between the sparse network of district dispensaries and
the specialized hospital facilities operated by MOH and Ahmadu Bello Uni-
versity (ABU) at Zaria and the State Capital, Kaduna. Additional Rural
Health Centers and a closer network of dispensaries providing more compre-
hensive services are to be included in the forthcoming development plan
(1974-1978).
25.       Ministry of Industry Trade, and Cooperatives (MITC) provides
services to industrial investors and is involved, for example, with the
development of the new oil seed crushing mill being constructed at Funtua
1/   This aspect would be affected by the Bank's proposed Livestock Project
appraisal report 127 UNI which includes provision for improvement of
facilities and services to pastoralists utilizing a grazing reserve
in the north west corner of the project area.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
with partial IFC financing 1/. More relevantly, it is responsible for the
administration of Cooperative societies within the State, which has 420
primary societies affiliated to 9 cooperative unions. 350 of these societies
are agricultural cooperatives primarily engaged in crop marketing and input
supply.
26.       The Katsina Local Authority (KLA).  The project area comes under
the control of the KLA, whose main functions include the collection of tax
in respect of people and cattle (haraji and jangali respectively); the ad-
ministration of land allocation; and the provision of services such as
feeder road construction and maintenance, dispensaries, and primary educa-
tion as a complement to State government activities in these fields.
27.       Two functions of the KLA are of immediate and direct importance
to the project. The first relates to the need for the positive and open
support and encouragement of project activities by KLA and the close coopera-
tion between KLA officials and project management. Project concept and pro-
posed activities have been discussed and agreed at several levels with the
KLA including the Emir, and full cooperation is anticipated. The second
concerns maintenance of the road network to be constructed under the proj-
ect, a responsibility for which KLA would ultimately assume. The road
construction unit of the project would liaise closely with the KLA Works
Department in order to facilitate road maintenance.
28.       Funtua Cooperative Credit and Marketing Union Ltd.  The Union
covers the entire project area and initially comprised 122 affiliated primary
societies. During the 1960's, cooperatives suffered from lack of support and
supervisory staff, alleged corruption, and political interference. Loans to
farmers, usually in cash, were made without regard to capabilities of
borrowers or to availability of inputs. Borrowers were provided with in-
adequate technical supervision and consequently loans were often misused and
repayments were poor. Many societies failed, and in 1973, only 41 active
societies with 3,400 members remained. In 1973 the Union loaned N79,000.
29.       The Union reports that 51 new societies are being organized; in
addition, there are 76 unaffiliated cooperatives that cannot receive Gov-
ernment loan funds due to indebtedness and default. Efforts are being made
to revitalize these societies.  Currently, however, societies serve less
than 5% of project area farmers and in general are not popular. To the ex-
tent that cooperative societies are vital and efficient, project management
would work with them as channels for credit, inputs and marketing.
30.       The Rural Development Bureau (RDB).  The RDB is a State government
body composed of representatives of public entities concerned with the rural
sector. The Bureau has a relatively informal role in coordinating the rural
development aspects of State sponsored programs. At the same time it is
responsible for the implementation of a number of civil works construction
projects utilizing its small budget, and contributions from rural communities.
1/   Report IFC/P 138 January 10, 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Activities center mainly on construction of access roads, wells and earth
dams for rural water supply. RDB has a small technical staff and is largely
limited in its endeavors by this constraint. During the project development
period, RDB would continue its important functions, concentrating its ef-
forts outside the project area.
31.       The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR).  Created in the
early 1960's from the Research Division of the then Northern Nigeria Ministry
of Agriculture, IAR is a semi-autonomous body linked with Ahmadu Bello
University (ABU). Its governing body has representation from the Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the six northern States. Its main
research station is located at Samaru, near Zaria, some 60 km from Funtua.
Further details on the organization and output of IAR are in Annex 3.
32.       IAR preserves contacts with headquarters and field staff of MANR.
Field trials are carried out on an agency basis on MANR sites, supervised by
ministry staff under the technical guidance of IAR researchers. Research
recommendations are conveyed to extension staff via the Extension Research
Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR.
33.       While IAR has directed a major part of its resources to fundamental
plant breeding in the search for improved high yielding varieties, which
must continue, it must do more to find solutions to the practical everyday
problems of small farmers who struggle with seasonal limitations of labor and
severe shortages of capital and other resources. A practical program of
applied research aimed at identifying and resolving farmers' problems would
make IAR's program more immediately useful to the people it is intended to
serve.
34.       Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB).  NAB is a Federal Government
institution which was inaugurated in March 1973, with head offices in
Kaduna. UNDP has provided financial assistance to employ consultants to
plan the role of NAB and to manage it for three years; the Bank is executive
agency. Four expatriate senior management staff, including the General
Manager, have been employed; and Nigerian officers have been recruited.
35.       Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB).  NSMB is responsible for
organizing the domestic purchase of controlled crops, cotton and groundnuts
at prices predetermined by FGN. As from the 1973/74 season, NSMB became
purchasing agent of the Federal Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC),
under a new FGN program to improve crop purchasing. Crop purchases take
place at legally gazetted markets by Licenced Buying Agents (LBA) of NSMB.
In 1972, there were 34 cotton markets and 27 groundnut buying points with-
in the project area.
36.       Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd. (CAP).  CAP (formerly the
British Cotton Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd.) has had a monopoly for
ginning Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century ago. CAP



ANNEX 2
Page 8
has ginneries throughout the cotton growing zones of the northern States.
In addition to ginning and lint classification, CAP arranges for seed
dressing against Bacterial Blight, seed distribution to village dumps, and
transportation of lint and seed as directed by NSMB. CAP is efficient and
capable of expanding its operations to meet the needs of the project. The
present ginning agreement expires in 1976, and CAP is exploring with State
Governments the possibilities of greater local participation in the industry.
C. Processing and Marketing
37.       Cotton.  All cotton purchased for NSIEB in the project area is
ginned at CAP facilities located either at Funtua or Malumfashi (see map).
The Malumfashi ginnery also processes cotton produced outside the project
area. Some increase in effective capacity would probably be needed towards
the end of the project, and CAP has indicated its willingness to make the
necessary arrangements, in consultation with MANR and NSMB.
38.       The gazetted cotton markets usually are temporary structures made
from grass mats, and are located on the basis of anticipated purchases
(minimum 50 tons/year) and distance between markets (minimum 8 km). A
minimum of two LBA is mandatory for each market, which is controlled by a
Produce Examiner (PE) from the Produce Inspection Division (PID) of the
MANR. The PE are responsible for the visual grading of seed cotton into
one of two grades, and should ensure that LBA pay correct amounts to farmers
for their produce. The PE are severely criticized as they seldom perform
these functions; apparently grading is virtually non-existent, and farmers
allege that many PE conspire with LBA to cheat farmers. The project would
seek to correct these deficiencies.
39.       Cotton Seed.  Currently cotton seed is dressed against fungal
infection by CAP and is returned to the farmer. In the handling processes,
enormous losses occur which could be substantially reduced were an acid
delinting process employed. Through this, the seed germination rate would
be improved, thus requiring less seed to be returned to the farmer and re-
leasing a greater surplus of seed for the crushing industry. NSMB would
request CAP to install acid delinter equipment at their gin in Funtua; CAP
have agreed in principal to this suggestion.
40.       Groundnuts.  All groundnuts purchased for NSMB are inspected and
graded by PID staff. Normally, this takes place after the purchases from
farmers have been made by LBA at buying points licensed by KLA. Groundnut
buying points like cotton markets, are not properly supervised by PID and
there are frequent allegations that LBA manipulate weigh scales and prices
at the expense of farmers.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
41.       Other Crops.  Control is normally not exercised on the marketing
or handling of other crops, such as sorghum, maize and cowpeas. However,
KLA has the power, if agreed by NCSG, to restrict movement of foodcrops in
times of shortage. Such powers have been invoked in poor seasons from time
to time.
42.       There is no national food crop market as such, but rather a series
of fairly highly organized, but disconnected, local centers. Consequently,
markets are thin and marked temporal and spatial price irregularities occur.
The project would aim to improve matters by the introduction of a market in-
telligence service, increasing farmers bargaining power through crop assembly,
and providing marketing advice and where appropriate helping farmers groups
to enter into contracts with large consumers such as livestock feed pro-
ducers and commercial starch factories.






NIGERIA                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
NIGERIA                                    Table 1
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Phasing of Project Development Program
Year 1   Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Total
Project Admin. H.Q.      1       -        -       -        -       _        1
Development Centers      5       -        -       -        -       -       5
Service Centers (accum)15       35       77       -        -       -      77
Road Development
Surfaced                20      70       70      70       70      75      375
Unsurfaced              80     210      210     210      210     205   1,125
Water & Soil Conserv.
Dams      No.            5      20       20      20       20       -       85
Tapkis    No.            -      40       40      40       40       -     160
Master ridges Km 2       -     600      600     600     600        -   2,400
Complete catchment Km2 20       80       80      80       80       -     340
Max. Frmers using in-
puts Y               4,000  16,500  32,000  45,000  58,000         -  58,000
Av. no. of farmers
per village service
center2 using in-
puts -/                267     4'11    416      584      753
Av. tot,al farmers
in villae            1,300   1,3,30 0 ,300   1 300   1 300
Percentage farmers
affected on village
basis 27 %              21      3°       32      45       58
Percentage farmers
affected on project
total %                  4      16       32      45      58
37 Based on triose growers using fertilizers.
j  Credit takers expected to be 75%.
" Taking into account affected villages only.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Research and Seed Multiplication
A. Research Implementation
Institution
1.        Technical and rural economic research pertaining to the proj-
ect area is the responsibility of the semi-autonomous Institute of
Agricultural Research (IAR). The Institute was created in the early
1960's and is linked to the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) at Zaria. It
has its main station and administrative headquarters at Samaru, adjoin-
ing the ABU campus, some 60 km south of proposed project headquarters
at Funtua. IAR serves the six northern States. Senior officials from
their Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) help to
formulate IAR policy and approve research programs.
2.        The Institute has a staff of over 150 professionals, and
modern and expanding facilities. It has established apparently good
working relations with other research institutions in Nigeria and the
West African region. Its standing in research circles is acknowledged
to be high. Over the years it has produced a wide range of research
results relating to most of the crops commonly grown in the northern
States. Implementation of the results has been hampered by lack of
technical assistance and input delivery services at the village and
farmer levels; and a tendency for research to be unrelated to the condi-
tions encountered on farmers' farms. The latter weakness has been
high-lighted recently as a result of the activities of the Agricultural
Economics Department of IAR, whose staff are cooperating with technical
personnel in the formulation of research recommendations more nearly
related to farmers' needs and capabilities than has hitherto been the
case.
3.        Responsibility for transmission of research results to exten-
sion staff is vested in the Extension Research Liaison Service (ERLS)
of IAR. Headed by a deputy Director of the Institute, ERLS produces a
range of audio and visual aids materials suitable for use by farmer con-
tact extension staff. The Service is responsible for formulating draft
recommended practices for farmers. These are based on research results
and an assessment of the level of supervision and technical competence
of field level extension staff employed by the State MANR's. This is
generally low, hence recommended practices tend to be simple and conser-
vative in order to avoid the hazard of loss of confidence by farmers in



ANNEX 3
Page 2
extension staff who give wrong advice (due to lack of comprehension) or
who are unable to arrange for supplies of necessary inputs. ERLS has a
staff of some 20 professionals and support personnel. Its chief would
be willing to tailor extension material to meet proposed project needs,
and to assist with its production.
4.        The use of IAR research results as a basis for recommendations
by ERLS to farmers has limitations. The farmer does not have the ideal
conditions for crop growth enjoyed by IAR on its stations. His resources
are limited, which necessitates a cropping pattern dictated by his lim-
ited resources. What is now urgently required is a range of experimental
work to show what can be accomplished under the conditions of crop suc-
cessions which the environment and limited manpower resources impose on
the farmer.
5.        Demonstrations, on both individual holdings and seed multipli-
cation farms (see Schedule 1) using applicable IAR recommended inputs
and improved seed varieties, would play an important part in teaching
new techniques to farmers. These demonstrations must be of a very high
standard to have a real impact.
Research Programs and Recommendations
6.        Programs on the five crops proposed for the project have been
ongoing for many years. Thus, cotton has been the subject of continuing
research in the major disciplines over the past four decades. Programs
are staffed mainly by personnel of the Cotton Research Corporation (CRC).
They have resulted in the development of improved varieties. Thus S7t,
which is recommended for the project area, has a yield potential under
Samaru conditions of well over, 2,000 kg of seed cotton per ha. Its main
characteristics are listed in Annex 1. In addition, agronomic practices,
fertilizer responses, pest and disease problems of crop have been clearly
defined and, at least, partially solved, so that farm yields of about
1,100 kg can be expected over wide areas.
7.        The cotton research program has provided definite recommenda-
tions on variety, cultural practices and fertilizer applications appli-
cable to the project area. Currently it is in the course of evaluating
systems of insect control using ultra-low-volume (ULV) spraying techniques
on a field scale at different sites in the project area. Advice on ULV
techniques suitable for farmers is likely to be forthcoming early in 1974.
These would be similar to techniques used by small scale cotton producers
in other parts of Africa. Annex 1 contains the essence of research rec-
ommendations for the cotton crop plus proposals for ULV spraying based
on experience elsewhere. Future work in the cotton research program
should include testing varieties that have a short growing period and can
thus be planted late and still have a reasonable yield expectation. Late
planting of cotton is a practice forced on many farmers because of limited
manpower resources.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        Groundnuts have been the subject of close research interest
and substantial effort over the past two decades. High yielding varieties
suitable for the project area have been developed and a package of inputs
and practices capable of at least doubling farmer's yields has been
available for some years.
9.        Improved practices proposed for the project are based on cur-
rent recommendations by ERLS. They include the use of the seed of the
variety S61, seed dressing with Aldran T or Fernasan D, single super-
phosphate fertilizer at 75 kg per ha, early planting and close spacing.
It may be that ongoing research on control of cercospora leaf spot will
lead shortly to the possibility of incorporating this treatment in prac-
tices proposed for groundnuts in the project area. This should be kept
in mind, along with opportunities for production expansion through new
varieties and/or variations in fertilizer dressing, all of which are
under investigation.
10.       Sorghum research has progressed from attempts to improve local
varieties into the development of dwarf varieties and hybrids suitable
for the differing ecological conditions encountered in the northern
States. Such material has a yield potential of at least five times
greater than farmers presently obtain. Selection and breeding programs
have been underway for the past 20 years with substantial assistance in
the past decade from the US through USAID programs involving USDA, USARS
and several universities. Cooperative programs with other West African
sorghum producers have also been operated through IAR.
11.       The outcome of this work, and related agronomic investigations,
has not yet reached the stage at which ERLS is able to issue a series
of recommended practices for general distribution. However, highly
promising results have been obtained from a number of trials, replicated
at Daudawa (in the project area) and a number of other sites in ecologi-
cally comparable locations. These have formed the basis for two pro-
posed levels of technology, outlined in Annex 1, involving the use of
dwarf varieties and hybrid sorghum. Proposed levels of fertilizer
application and the specific types of sorghum most suitable for the
project area should be reviewed after 1973 and 1974 cropping seasons in
the light of results of ongoing and proposed field trials scheduled for
Daudawa and other sites. Acceptance for human consumption of new hybrid
varieties on the basis of palatability should be examined closely.
12.       Mlaize has the most exciting crop development potential in the
project. Recent research results in Nigeria, and experience in other
African countries having similar ecological conditions point to the
probability of a substantial expansion of area and production in the
short to medium term. Yields of over 7,000 kg/ha have been obtained
under trial conditions over several years at Samaru from synthetic vari-
eties and hybrids. Trials in the project area have yielded similarly,
and promising new material is presently being tested. Even if a reduc-
tion of 50 percent from research to farmer fields is assumed yield levels
of at least 3,500 kg can be readily obtained.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
13.       These developments are comparatively recent in the northern
States. They have been initiated by a number of cooperative and regional
programs, partly funded by the US. Table 2 indicates yield potential of
some of the material being developed. Agronomic practices established
elsewhere have been, and continue to be, tested under Nigerian conditions.
Some refinements are likely to be forthcoming, but basic production
techniques utilizing comparatively heavy fertilizer applications have
been proven in trials.
14.       Annex 1 sets out two levels of recommended maize technology
based on Nigerian research results and experience in other African coun-
tries having similar ecological conditions. These differ from current
recommended practices since they presuppose a much closer degree of
technical assistance to farmers plus the provision of the inputs neces-
sary to obtain predicted production levels. As for sorghum, proposed
technology should be reviewed in the light of 1973 and 1974 field trial
results and amended as necessary before incorporation in project
activities.
15.       Cowpea is grown throughout the project area, and widely in
Nigeria. Research has centered mainly on control of insect pests, to
which it is highly susceptible both in the field and in store. However,
some improved varieties have been established and recommendations are
available on cultural practices. Responses to phosphatic fertilizer
(single superphosphate) have been demonstrated.
16.       Control of insect pests is possible, provided the crop is sole
planted using high volume sprays and DDT/BHC mixtures. The probability
of insect control using ULV techniques is currently under investigation
at IAR. Results suitable for dissemination to farmers are expected to
be forthcoming in the near future.  In anticipation of this, an improved
level of technology is proposed for the project, that involves ULV
spraying and fertilizer application to sole crops planted as recommended
by ERIS. Confirmation or possibly modification of the treatment should
be sought before their implementation, following results of ongoing and
planned investigations by IAR staff.
17.       The project management would undertake field trials in close
cooperation with IAR at the Daudawa and Malumfashi farms. Investigations
would form part of ongoing research programs in major commodities in
the project area. They would pay particular attention to the applica-
bility of results under project conditions.
Seed Multiplication
18.       Seed multiplication is the responsibility of State Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources from parent nucleus material devel-
oped by IAR. At the present time there is no private sector seed indus-
try. With the exception of the cotton seed multiplication scheme at



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Daudawa, Gusau and Gombe, efforts to produce and distribute improved
planting material are generally inadequate to meet the needs of the
northern States (for details of stage multiplication of cotton see
Table 1).
19.       Project proposals for a substantial uptake of improved plant-
ing material of four of the five crops considered dictate that adequate
multiplication facilities should be developed in the area. MA9NR already
has a 390 ha farm at Daudawa at which cotton seed for the State, and
other areas is bulked up. An additional farm of 210 ha at Malumfashi
in the north of the project area would also be made available for seed
multiplication.
20.       Seed production is a specialized business calling for good
management standards and a high level of technical competence. Most
KANR staff at farm manager level are weak in those qualities, and it is
questionable whether existing MANR personnel could operate a seed produc-
tion program of the size proposed for the project. Quantities of seed
would not be large initially, but would build up quite quickly as shown
in sunmary below:
____ ----TYear ----- ------------
1      2      3       4       5
m. tons
Sorghum                60    112    224    316       384
Maize                   -      20    108    325      587
Groundnuts             30    180    450    600       900
21.       Parts of both sorghum and maize seed production programs would
be of the new hybrids; exact amounts would depend on farmer uptake which
itself depends on the successful demonstration of significant yield dif-
ferences between the new hybrids and current composite strains. Ground-
nut and cotton seed production would pass through two multiplication
stages on the project seed farms; final multiplication would be on pri-
vate seed farms. The 600 ha of the two project seed farms would be adequate
to handle cotton and groundnuts up to the third stage and the cereal pro-
duction in the early years. But the use of selected commercial farmers
within the project area must be envisaged for cereal quantities such as
those projected from year 3 onwards. Seed production developments under
this project could be substantially expanded to serve as a major seed
producing location for the State.
22.       Schedule 1 of this Annex gives details on requirements, costs
and returns for Daudawa and Malumfashi seed farms.






ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Cotton Seed Multiplication
Sown  Seed Cotton  Seed       Seed
Area    Yield 3/   Produced  Required   For
Stage         Location           ha      kg/ha       m ton      m ton      Stage
A    Breeder nucleus          0.15    1,500        o.144      0.102       B
B    Breeder plot (IAR)           6   1,200          ^4.61      4.20       C
C    Daudawa farm               120      900        69.1       60         D
D    Segregated area
Daudawa 1/             2,000     750        960        800         E
E    Gazetted Market areas  20,000       720     9,200 2/                 F
1/ Enlarged Stage D.
2/ Sufficient for 230,000 ha.
3/ Ginning % = 35, seed cotton 64%.



ANNEX 3
Table.
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Summary of 'Yields of Promising Maize Varieties and Hybrids: IAR Samaru
(kg/ha)
Average
1970        1971        1967/t970
Federal Zonal Trial
NC-A                                    6,308        7,171           -
NC-B                                    6,128        6,753
A306                                       -         7,237           _
West African Regional Trials
Ghana Composite 3                       6,14o        9,h404 
094 (096)                               6,011        9,137           _
X306                                      -          8,131           -
.B1O1                                      -         9,734           -
NCB                                        -         7,723           -
NCB X NCB                                  -         8,119
Samaru Trials
C-8 X A-196                             7,252          -             6,786
A-149 X C-33                            7,059          -             7,267
BY X C-12                               5,968          -             7,047
BY X C-10                               6,931          -             7,148



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Demonstration Farms
Daudawa          Malumfashi           Total
Existing area (ha)            390                210                600
Area to be cleared            Nil                120                120
Project Seed Requirements
Year 1                Year 2                Year 3 1/
Quantity   Area       Quantity   Area       Quantity   Area
m tons     ha         m tons     ha         m tons     ha
Cotton               60        120          60       120          60       120
Cereals              60         40        132         83         232       195
Groundnuts            30        30         180       187 2/      180       187
Total Area                     190                   390                   502
Crop Rotation: 3 year - cotton, groundnuts, cereals
Seed Multiplication Farm Costs
1. Capital Costs
(a)  Land clearing 120 ha 9 N 75 per ha                     N  9,000.00
(b) Building costs (Malumnfashi only)
Staff housing (included under general staff                 -
housing, Annex 10, Table 3)
Office                                               N  3,000.00
Store and workshop                                   N  8,000.00
Water and power supply                               N 15,000.00
(c)  Fencing - Malumfashi                                   N  1,000.00
- Daudawa                                      N  2,000.00
T/ As from Year 3 seed requirements in excess of multiplication farm production
will be provided by outgrowers.
2/ Groundnut seed requirements will be partly supplied from village multiplication
as from Year 2.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 2
(d) Equipment:
Daudawa                   Malumfashi                      Unit Cost          N
2 x 78 hp tractors        2 x 78 hp tractors               4.,250         17,000.00
1 x 65 hp tractor                                          3,800           3,800.00
1 x 35 hp tractor         1 x 35 hp tractor                2,500           5,000.00
2 x chisel plow           1 x chisel plow                    380           1,140.00
2 x offset disc harrow   1 x offset disc harrow              700           2,100.00
1 x peg harrow            2 x peg harrow                     300           1,200.00
2 x planter               2 x planter                      1,200           4,800.oo
3 x trailer               2 x trailer                        700           3,500.00
1 x sprayer               1 x sprayer                        600           1,200.00
1 x maize sheller         1 x maize sheller                1,000           2,000.00
Seed dressing equipment                                    7,500           7s500.00
7 x 5 ton lorry           1 x 5 ton lorry                  6,000          12,000.00
2 x pickup                1 x pickup                       3,300           9,900.00
Total          71,14000
say            71,000.00
2. Budget for Seed Multiplication Farms at FuqU_Devp.eopment
It is assumed that the total arable area available will be cropped,
any excess seed produced being sold to farmers outside the project area.
It is estimated that the total cropping area available on the two
farms is 570 ha.
Cropping annually would be:
Cotton               187 ha
Groundnuts           187 ha
Cereals              195 ha
Costs - Direct                                                               N
Cotton 187 ha at N 132 1/ per ha                               24,684.00
Groundnuts 187 ha at N 114 per ha                              21,318.00
Cereals 195 ha at N 95 per ha                                  18,525.00
Total                                                      6727.0T 0
Add 20% to cover overheads                                     12,905.00
Total                                                      77,432.00
1/ Made up as follows:             N per ha
Power                  58
Labor                  35
Seed                    5
Fertilizer             17
Spray                  17
Total           132
From USDA Agriculture Economic Report No. 227.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 3
Returns                                                                     N
Seed cotton 187 ha at 900 kg per ha at N 0.168 per kg                   28,274.00
Groundnuts 187 ha at 800 kgV seed per ha at N 0.136 per kg               20,345.00
at 200 kg per ha at N 0.087 per kg                     3,253.00
Cereals 195 ha at 2,h40C/ kg seed per ha at N 0.136 per kg               63,648.o0
at   600 kg per ha at N 0.070 per kg                      8,190.00
Total                                                        123, 710.00
Gross profit                                                  46p278.00
1/ 80% of total yield available for sale as seed; remaining 20% sold at
commercial price.






ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Roads
General
1.        The lack of reasonable farm access constitutes a serious constraint
to development, the rectification of which is essential for the success of
the project. To enable most farmers to be within two kilometers of a reason-
able road requires development of 1,500 km of agricultural roads in the
Funtua area. These roads are needed so that vital agricultural extension
work can reach the farmer during the wet season when his crops are growing,
and for the delivery of farm inputs and evacuation of produce during the dry
season. In addition, social benefits by way of easier and more economical
haul of other supplies, better bus services, and easier travel by the
farmer's own modes of transport such as bicycles, donkey, ox cart and
tractor, would result.
2.        Traffic densities are difficult to predict with accuracy, but it
is certain that most of the heavy lorry traffic would occur in the dry
season when haul of farm inputs and produce is at its peak. Light traffic
would continue throughout the year, mostly consisting of local movement be-
tween villages. Because of this traffic pattern, where the heavier axle
loads occur in the dry months, it should be possible to use most of the
roads throughout the year, the main obstacle being those roads intersected
by a major river crossing which could cut off traffic for several months in
the wet season. Careful road location is necessary to reduce the frequency
of such obstacles.
3.        During the five year development period, the project would con-
struct 1,500 km of agricultural roads, of which, about 1125 km would be un-
surfaced and 375 kmn would be surfaced. Roads would only be surfaced - with
appropriate thicknesses of natural occurring gravels - on main extraction
routes to market centers and where soil conditions make this essential
(see map for proposed road layout).
4.        Construction Standards. 1/ Roads would be constructed on the water-
sheds 2/ as such alignments are self draining and require minimal earthworks
Construction would involve 1,500-2,500 YC/mile over a 32 ft formation, and
would be undertaken most effectively by tractors for site clearance, and
motor graders for shaping the formation and providing turn-out drains from
1/   Basic standards and data are calculated using English measurements.
2/   Lines of separation between drainage basins.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
longitudinal side drains; the use of motor graders would predominate.
Stripping (or topsoiling) over the formation width would seldom be required
on watersheds where weathering had taken place exposing material which is
capable, without surfacing, of adequately carrying the low volumes of traf-
fic likely to use such roads. Proposed typical road cross sections are at-
tached for (a) construction by grader and (b) low embankments that would be
required where low-lying areas cannot be avoided (see Figure I of Annex 4).
5.        Construction Technique
(i)  Selection of road center line would be carefully carried out
by stereoscopic examination of aerial photography (provided for under the
project, Annex 10 Table 2) and large-scale maps, and by site inspection and
levelling to locate the tops of ridges, which are often very flat. The
alignments would slavishly follow selected watersheds.
(ii) Clearing of the formation would be carried out by tractor/
dozer/scraper combinations and debris moved outside the formation width.
(iii)  Topsoiling (or soil stripping) would only be carried out where
absolutely necessary, e.g. where topsoil or unsuitable material exists and
where the use of such soil in construction would reduce road bearing strength.
(iv)  Construction by grader.  On watershed routes, the main method
of construction would be by motor grader. Material from graderblade cut
side drains, depth 12" - 18", would be moved towards the center of the form-
ation width and shaped to a smooth camber. This is essentially a lateral
earth movement although some longitudinal regularization would occur along
the road center line as the grader shapes the formation. Scarifying the
material in the side drains may be necessary and occasionally a tractor-
mounted ripper might be needed to loosen material for easier movement by the
grader.
(v) Provision of turn-out (offshoot drains) from the longitudinal
side drains of the formation would be grader constructed to discharge water
from the formation and so prevent erosion in the side drains being caused by
long uninterrupted drainage flows. Care would be taken to ensure that turn-
out drains had the correct slope to take water away from the formation.
(vi) Compaction of formation after shaping is desirable. The sup-
ply of water for consumption by project staff and for road and dam construc-
tion would be difficult. Rivers do not flow continually throughout one year,
very few dams exist, shallow wells generally yield low, and frequently fail
in the dry season; and bore holes (tube wells) have not proved successful in
the basement complex of the project areas.
The initial stage of the construction program would be confined
for the first dry season of the project to areas within a workable range of
existing water supplies, say, 20 miles. Thereafter the dams constructed in
the first stage, after filling during the rains, would become the water
source for wider reaching road and dam construction activities.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(vii) Surfacing would only be carried out by tractor and scraper
over sections where the subgrade is found to have inadequate bearing
strength even for low traffic volumes, and where supplies of surfacing ma-
terial within the practical working haul of tracked tractors. Scrapers
would require the support of a pusher during such operations. The principal
function of the tractors would be clearing, dozing and ripping and not sur-
facing (see para 11). The self-loading scrapers proposed for the dam con-
struction unit would assist with surfacing in the wet season. Local haulage
contractors would be used where long hauls of gravel are found necessary.
(viii) Minor embankments would be constructed by tractors and scrapers
on those sections where watershed construction is impossible. Side borrow to
fill would be used where practicable (see typical cross-sections). In adopt-
ing predominantly watershed alignments, embankments would be required in
crossing from one watershed to another and in doing so, at some sites, it
would be possible to construct dams and allow traffic to cross over a widened
dam wall.
(ix) Drainage structures. Corrugated metal pipe culverts would be
used because of the ease and speed with which these can be transported, as-
sembled and constructed. Bitumen-coating of metal pipe would be an effective
method of protecting culverts from the slightly acid (plH 5-6) soil water to
which they would be exposed. Concrete headwalls, tailwalls and drop-pits
using standardized form-work would be constructed.
Method of Procurement
6.        Road Works - Three possibilities exist:
(i)  By Contract.  It is the opinion of Federal and State MOW offi-
cials that major Nigerian (and foreign operations in Nigeria) civil engineer-
ing contractors are fully (if not over) committed with Federal and State
highway development programs and that contracts for low-standard agricultural
roads would not interest them at the present time. The project program is
not of a type to interest new foreign contractors because of their low unit
cost of construction, long construction period envisaged, and demand for a
modest amount of equipment and plant.
(ii) By State Ministries and Agencies. The State Ministries of
Works and Agriculture and Natural Resources would be unable to undertake the
construction of project roads and dams without considerable strengthening in
staff and equipment. In any case MOW is already over committed and is ex-
tremely short of adequately experienced supervisory and technical personnel.
(iii) By Project Construction Units. The establishment of these
units would involve recruitment of senior managerial, technical and
mechanical staff, procurement of plant, training of operators, setting up
workshops, costing procedures and evaluation of physical outputs. The re-
cruitment of high calibre senior personnel with experience in similar work



ANNEX 4
Page 4
is essential to the success of project units. However, the main advantage
of project construction by force account would be lower cost of construc-
tion, flexible use of equipment between roads and dams and the training of
personnel to undertake similar work elsewhere in the State.
7.        Other integrated agricultural projects financed by the Bank have
in some instances involved the development of infrastructure through project
construction units. Construction has generally been efficient, at low cost,
and has provided an excellent training ground for young indigenous engineers.
In the light of such experiences, the inadequacy of existing Nigerian insti-
tutions, the lack of available contractors, and the need for flexibility,
the project would set up a special unit to undertake the construction of
roads, dams and soil conservation measures.
Construction Costs
8.        The average overall road construction cost is estimated at about
N 1900 (US$2,900) per km. The cost includes engineering overheads, plant
capital and operating costs, workshop capital and operating costs, labor
and engineering supplies (see Tables 1-4).
Plant Requirement
9.        Plant requirements for agricultural road construction units have
been estimated by using plant output figures for similar work under similar
terrain and rainfall conditions and by estimating the total work quantities
required. Table 2 shows recommended major plant items. The predominant
methlod of construction would be by motor grader with one more powerful
grader for work in harder soil conditions. Other major equipment includes
two tracked tractors with dozers and scrapers for clearing and forming
shallow embankments, and two vibratory rollers for compaction or formation
and surfacing, where required.
Staff Requirements
10.       These have been related to the numbers and types of construction
equipment and to the tasks involved in alignment selection, grade construc-
tion, surfacing and drainage structures. A high degree of mobility is de-
sirable; caravans (dwelling trailers) would be provided for senior person-
nel and portable accommodation for artisans, operators and laborers (Annex
6 Table 3).
Road Maintenance
11.       Although some road maintenance would be undertaken by the project
during the development period, the allocation of construction plant for
maintenance would not be allowed to interfere with output of new road; thus
once a new road had been built maintenance responsibility would be handed



ANNEX 4
Page 5
over to the Katsina Local Authority (KLA). Funds have been included under
Annex 10 Table 6 for the purchase and operation of maintenance equipment,
and under the project KLA staff would, during the project, be seconded to
the project engineering service for purposes of training and operating con-
trol.
Bridges
12.       Small streams would be crossed by constructing "Irish" crossings - a
concrete slab on a suitable rock foundation - or through the use of ARMCO type
culverts. No large bridges would be constructed, since most rivers are ex-
tremely wide and run dry for 8 months of the year, at a time when crops are
being evacuated, and inputs are being delivered to service center stores. All
the roads would have year round access from at least one end so that during
the wet season access can be gained. In the dry season road maintenance units
would cut new approaches to the river beds, which would be sufficient to allow
ingress to traffic.
Compensation
13.       Compensation for loss of arable land due to road construction would
be made at established KLA rates and the amounts (provided for under Annex 10
Table 6) would be determined by KLA.






NIGERI A
NORTH GENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Output Rates
___ _ __ ___ _ Hours 5---------------
Dimension               % of Total 1/       Unit         Total Units    Output Rate   Grader  Lozer  Scraper  Compactor
ClearinE in open country for grauer construction                    40' wide                     45L          4.85 AC/M      2,050 AC        1.25 AC/hr       -      1,650      -         -
Clearing in bush oountry for grader construction                   40' wide                      45%         4.85 AC/N       2,050 AC        0.75 AC/hr       -     2,750       -         -
Clearing in open country for earthworks construction               75' wide                      7.5,6        9.10 AC/H,       640 AC        1.25 AC/hr       -        500      -         -
ClearinF in bush country for earthworks construction               75' wide                      2.5%        9.10 AC/M         214 AC        0.75 AC/hr       -       300       -         -
Topsoiling (where necessary; dozer 50%, scraper 50%)               32' x 6"                      10%         3130 YC/M       295,000 YC      80,85 YC/hr      -      3,600   1,800        -
Zonstruction by Grader                                                                           90%         846 M           2,040 days      0.33-0.50      16,300      -
M/day
Offshoot Drains by Grader                                          Max. 2500' drains/mile        90%          846 M          1,540 days      o.50-o.60      12,300      -       -         -
FH/day
Subgrade Compaction (incl. watering)                                20' wide                    100%          12,000 YS/M    11,280,oooYS   650 YS/hr                                   17,400
Surfacing (by tractor and scraper)                                 15' (av)                      10% 2/       1,500 YC/M,i    141,000 YC     50-55 YC/hr       -    2,700   2,700         -
Shaping Surfacing (by grader)                                       20' wide                     25%          12,000 YS/h    2,800,000 YS   2,000 YS/hr    1,400        -       -         -
Surfacing Compaction (incl. watering)                               20' wide                     25%          12,000 YS/M    2,800,000 YS   650 YS/hr           -       -        -       4,300
Earthworks (by tractor and scraper; haul n.e. 600 ')                                             10           6o,500 Y2/M     600,000 YC      65-70 YC/hr       -    9,000   9,000        -
HOURS PER PROJECT             30,000 20,500  13,500       21,700
HOURS PER YEAR                 6,000  4,100   2,700        4,300
NO. UNITS REQUIRED                  3      2        2          2
1/ As a percentage of each constructed mile of road.
2/ Balance of 15% (140 stiles) by SP scrapers from Dam Construction Unit.
November 6, 1973
d m
HI'



NIG ERIA
NCtTH CENTRAL STATE
F1ThflUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction: Unit Plant and Operating Costs
------------Capital Costs (N'OOO)------------      ------------------------Operating Costs per Hour (N)-
Price ex Lagos                         Total
incl. attach-             Transport   Delivery               Lub. &                 Cutting
ments & duty     Spares3  to Site      Price        Fuel     Filters      Tyres     Edger etc.    Repairs      Operator      Total
Tractor 180 hp, PCU, Dozer, Ripper                     50.9                      1.0        51.9        2.39      0.52         -           0.43        4.67          1.00 2/     9.01
Tractor 140 hp, PCU, Dozer, Ripper 1/                  30.6                      1.0        31.6        1.60      0.32         -           0.43        2.84          1.00 2/     6.19
Scraper 14/18 YC                                       16.0                      o.6        16.6        -         0.15        0.95         0.30        0.55           -          1.95
SP Scraper 150 hp 1/                                   36.6                      1.0        37.6        1.68      0.44        1.08         0.50        3.19          1.00 2/     7.89
Sotorgrader 125 hp                                     28.8                      o.6         29.4       2.22      0.24        1.68         0.70        1.35          1.00 2/      7.1 9
!4otorgrader 150 hp                                    32.6                      o.6         33.2       2.49      0.40        1.68         0.75        1.54          1.00 2/      7.86
Agricultural Tractor                                                                         4.o       0.51       0.15        0.36          -          0.17          0.20        1.39
Vibratory Compactor 9 tons                             28.8                      o.6         29.4       0.82      0.20         -            -          2.35          0.80 2/     4.17
Tipper 7 t/5 yC                                          -                        -          8.o        0.82      0.30        0.53          -          0.39          0.20        2.24
Mobile workshop/lub. truck/fuel tanker                  -                         -         10.0        0.82      0.30        0.53          -          0-49          0.20         2.34
4 wbeel drive vehicle                                                             -          4.o        0.66      0.20        o.4o          -           0.20         0.20        1.66
Pick-up ½i ton GP                                        -                        -          3.2        o.66      0.20        0.40          -          0.16          0.20        1.62
Car, large                                                                        - -        5.0        0.55      0.10        0.30          -          0.25          0.20        1.40
Car, light                                                                        -          3-.        0.44      0.10        0.25          -           0.15          -           0.94
Concrete mixer 14/10                                                              - -        1.0        0.41      0.10          -           -           0.10          -           0.61
liater trailer                                                                    -           1.0        -         -           0.05         -           0.05          -           0.10
Water pump                                               -                        -           0.5       0.41      0.05          -           -           0.05          -           0.51
Generator 2.5 EVA                                                                 -           1.0       0.41      0.10          -           -           0.15           -          0.66
1/ Equipment required for water and soil conservation work (Annex 4, Table 1).
2/ Double shift work - two operators required.
/ Included in repair costs.
November 6, 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTUR4L DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
Road Construction: Cajital 'Costs for Plant, FNsipment and Yateriala
No.                                                                                                         Fareign Exchange   Local
unit     tnit Cost   Units        Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5         Total      i           Cost   Cost
Field Requirements
Tractor, PCU/do-er/ripper 180 HP           No.        51,900        2      (1)   51,900      (1)   51,900           -                 _                 _           103,800   90          93,420   10,380
Scraper - towed 14/18 CY                   No.        16,600        2      (1)   16,600      (1)   -6,bOO           -                 _                              33,200   90         29,880    3,320
Motorgrader 125 HP                         No.         29,400       2      (1)   29,400      (1)   29,400           -                 _                               58,800   90         52,920    5,880
Motorgrader 150 HP                         No.        33,200        1      (1)   33,200            -                _                 _                 _             33,200   90         29,880    3,320
Agriz. tractor 65 HP                       No.         4,000        2      (2)    8,000            -                _                 _                 _             8,000   90          7,200       800
Vibratory compactor 9 tons                 No.        29,400        2      (I)   29,400      ( )  29,400            -                 _                 _            58,800   90         52,920    5,880
Tippers 7 too 5 YC                         No.          8,000       2      (2)   16,000            -                -                 -                 -             16,000   90         14,400    1,600
4 wheel drive vehicle                      No.         4,000        4      (2)    8,000                        (2)   8,000            -                 -             16,000   90         14,400    1,600
Pickup i: ton                              No.          3,200       4      (2)    6,400            -           (2)   6,400            -                 -             12,800   60          7,680    5,120
Caravan                                    No.          3,000       5      (3)    9,000      (2)    6,ooO           -                 -                 -            15,000   90          13,500    1,500
Water trailer  1,000 gals.                 No.          1,000       4      (4)    6,000            -                -                 -                 -              4,000   90          3,600       400
Water punmp and hose                       No.            500       2      (2)    1,000            -                -                 -                 -              1,000   90            900       100
Generator 2.5 XWA                          No.         1, o0        1      (1)    1,000            -                -                 -                 -              1,0o0   9O            80o       100
Concrete mixer 14/10                       No.          1,000       1      (1)    1,000            -                -                 -                 -              1,000   90            900       100
Lub. truck                                 No.         10,000       1      (1)   10,000            -                -                 -                 -             10,000   90          9,000    1,000
Fuel tanker                                No.        10,000        1      (1)   10,000            -                -                 -                 -             10,000   90          9,0oo    1,000
Survey equipment                                                                  2,000             1,000            2,000             1,000             1,000         7,000   90          6,300       700
Sub total                                                          236,900           134,300           16,400             1,000             1,000       389,600   89        346,800   42,800
Workshop Requ iree-Lts
Fuel storage                               -            2,000       -             2,000            -                _                 _                 -              2,000   50          1,000    1,000
Luh. equipment                                          1,000       -             1,000                                               -                 -              1,000   80            800       200
Overhead hoists                            -            1,000       -             1,000            -                -                 -                 -              1,000   90            900       100
Welding equipment                          -            3,500       -             3,500            -                -                 -                 -              3,500   80          2,8D0       700
Tyre equipment                             _            1,500       -             1,500            -                -                 -                 -              1,500   80          1,200       300
Air compressor                             _800                     -               800            -                -                 -                 -                800   80            640       160
JacksHD                                    -              800       -               Boo            -                -                 -                 -                800   80            640       160
Bench equipment                            -            1,800       -             1,800               200              200               200               200         2,600   80          2,080       520
Majo toeels                                             3,800       _             3,800               200              200               200                200       I6,600   80          3,680       920
Mechanics tools                            -              600       -               600               100              100               100               100         1,000   80            800       200
Other                                                   4,200       -             4,200               200              200               200               200         5,000   80          4,000    1,000
Mobile workshop                            No.         10,000       2      (1)   10,000            _           (1)  10,000            _                 -             20,000   90         18,000    2,000
Low loader                                 No.         21,000       1      (1)   21,000            -                -                 -                 -             21,000   90         18,900    2,100
Fuel tanker                                No.         10,000       2      (2)   20,000            -                -                 -                 -             20,000   90         18,000    2,000
Pickup 1½ ton                              No.          3,200       2      (I)    3,200            -           (1)   3,200            -                 -              6,400   60          3,840    2,560
Sub total                                                           75,200               700           13,900                700               700       91,200   85          77,280   13,920
Buildings and Construction Materials
Workshop, store, furnishings etc.          No.         35,000       1            35,000            -                -                  -                 -            35,000   20           7,000   28,000
Ceemnt/form work                                          -         -             5, 0o            10,000           10,000            10,000            15,000        50,000   -              -     50,000
Corrugated metal pipe                                               _            30,000            60,oo0            6,               60,000            90,000       300,000   70         210,000   90,000
Field housing-shelters                     _                                      6,ooo             3,000            3,000             3,000             3,000        18,000   10          1,800   10,200
Sub total                                                           76,000            73,000           73,000             73,000          108,000       403,000   54         218,800  184,200
Total                                                              388,100            208,000         103,300             74,700           109,700       883,800   73        642,880  940,920
Novenber o, 1973



NIGERI A
NORTH CEhTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Labor and Plant Operating Costs
1W 000
Foi eign
Unit Rate      Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5                    Exchanre     local         Year s         Total
No.     N per Hour  Hours   Cost  Hours   Coost   Hours   Cost   Hours   Cost  Hours   Cost          Total      _   Cost      Cost      Hours   Cost      Cost
FieLd Units
Tractor 1 O hp                   2         9.01      2,050   18.5  4,100   36.9   4,100   36.9   4,100   36.9  6,100   36.9           166.1      37  61.S     106.6      2,050   18.8c      18.6
Scraper 14/18 CY                 2        1.95       1,350    2.6   2,700    5.3   2,700    5.3   2,700    5.3   2,700    5.3          23.8      70  16.7       7.1      1,350    2.6        26.4
i4otorgrader 125 hp              2         7.19      2,000   14.4   4,000   28.8   4,000   28.8   6,000   28.8  11,000   28.8         129.6      44  57.0      72.6      2,000   16.4       144.0
hotorgrader 150 hp               1         7.86      1,000    7.9   2,000   15.7   2,000   15.7   2,000   15.7   2,000   15.7          70.7      44  31.1      39.6      1,000    7.9        78.6
AF.ric. Tractor 65 hp            2        1.39       2,000    2.6  I1,000    5.6   6,000    5.6   6,000    5.6   4,000    5.6          25.0     44  11.0       14.0      2,000    2.6        27.6
Vibratory compactor              2        6.17       2,150    9.0   4,300   17.9   4,300   17.9   4,300   17. 1   4,300   17.9         80.6     44  35.S       45.1      2,150    9.0        89.6
Tipper 5 YC                      2         2.26      2,000    4.S   L,000    9.0   4,000    9.0   4,000    9.0   6,000    9.0          40.5     44  17.8       22.7      2,000    4.5        45.0
4 wheel drive vehicle            2         1.66      2,000    3.3   4,000    6.6   4,000    6.6   4,000    6.6   6,000    6.6          29.7      44  13.1      16.6      2,000    3.3        33.0
Pickup i ton                     2         1.o2      2,000    3.2   4,000    6.5   4,000    6.5   4,000    6.'  5,000    6.5           29.2     44  12.8       16.4      2,000    3.2        32.4
Concrete mixer 14/10             1         0.61      1,000    0.6   1,000    0.6   1,000    0.6   1,000    0.6   1,000    0.6           3.0     44   1.3        1.7      1,000    o.6         3.6
W'ater trailer                   4         0.10      6,000    0.b   8,000    0.8   8,000    0.8   8,000    0.8   8,000    0.8           3.6      46   1.6       2.0      4,000    0.4         4.o
Water pump                       2         0.51      1,000    0.5   2,000    1.0   2,000    1.0   2,000    1.0   2,000    1.0           4.5      44   2.0        2.5     1,000    0.5         5.0
Generator 2.5 EWA                1         o.66      1,000    0.7   2,000    1.3   2,000    1.3   2,000    1.3   2,000    1.3           5.9    64   2.6         3.3      1,000    0.7         6.6
Labor Costs 1/                                         -     14.9      -     17.2      -     17.2      -     17.2     -     17.2       83.7      -    -        83.7        -     14.9        98.6
Sub total                                           83.1           153.2           153.2          153.2           153.2      695.9     38 264.0      431.9              83.1       779.0
Workshop Operating 2/
Nobile workshop                  2         2.34      1,000    2.3   2,000    4.7   2,000    4.7   2,000    4.7   2,000    4.7          21.1      50  10.6      10.5      1,000    2.3        23.4
Low loader                       1         4.78        500    2.4   1,000    4.8   1,000    4.8   1,000    4.8   1,000    4.8          21.6      44   9.5      12.1        500    2.4        24.0
Lub. truck                       2         2.36      1,500    3.5   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0          31.5      44  13.9      17.6      1,500    3.5        35.0
Fuel tanker                      2         2.34      1,500    3.5   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0   3,000    7.0          31.5      44  13.9      17.6      1,500    3.5        35.0
Pickup i ton                     1         1.62      1,000    1.6   2,000    3.2   2,000    3.2   2,000    3.2   2,000    3.2          14.4      66   6.4       8.o      1,000    1.6        16.0
Special services 3/              -          -          -     10.0      -     15.0      -     15.0      -     15.0     -     15.0       70.0     50  35.0       35.0        -     10.0        80.0
Freight 4/                       -          -          -      1.5      -      3.0      -      3.0      -      3.0     -       3.0      13.5      75  10.1       3.4        -       1.5       15.0
Sub tot al                                          24.8            44.7            44.7           44.7            46.7      203.6     49  99.4      104.2              24.8       228.4
Total                                              107.9           197.9           197.9           197.9          197.9      899.'     40 363.4      536.1             107.9    1,007.6
1/ lncludes:for road survey and grade construction 2 engineering assistants and 5 laborers, for surfacing 1 engineering assistant and 10 laborers,
and for drainage structures 1 foreman, 3 mason/carpenters and 10 laborers.
N.B. Drivers included in vehicle operating costs.
2/ Excludes parts and mechanical supplies, and labor (2 foreman, 2 clerks, 2 partsmen, 10 nechanics, 10 mechanics helpers) costs included in
hourly repair costs for plant arri equipment.
3/ Services for plant repairs.
j/ ltainly airfreight of supplies.
Novembor 6, 1973



NIGERI A
NCHTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA CGRICULTURAL DEVELOPiMENT PROJECT
Road Maintenance Unit Cost 1/
N ' 000
Unit      No. of                                                                              F2oreign Exchange       Local
Unit      Cost    UJnits        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5      Total                    Cost      Cost
Plant, and  uiment
Tractor l4   hp PCU, do7er, PCU ripper                    No.       31.6            1        31.6                      -           -                     31.6      90            28.4        3.2
hotorgrader 125 hp                                         No.      3'.6            1        37.6         -                        -                     37.6       90           33.8         3.8
4 wheel. drive vehicle                                     No.       4.0            2         4.0         -            -           4.0          -          8.0      90            7.2         0.8
Tipper   YC                                                No.        8.0           2         8.0         -            -           8.0         -         1l.0       90           14.4        1.6
Small ecruipment and tools                                                                    2.0         0.5          0.5         0.5         0.5        4.0       60            2.4         1.6
Sub total                                                                         83.?         0.5          0.5        12.'         0.5       y7.2      89            86.2       11.0
Plant Operating~ and L-bor
Tractor 140 np                                             Hours   N 6.19    10,000          12.1        12.4         12.4        12.4        12.4       62.0       37           22.9        39.1
Motorgrader                                                Hours   N 7.19    10,000          14.4        lbJ.4 15.5               14.5        14.4        72.0      44           31.7       40.3
4  dheel drive                                             Hours   N 1.66       7,500         2.5          2.5         2.5         2.5          2.5      12.5      54             5.5         7.0
Tipper 5 Y^                                                Hours   N 2.24       5,000         2.2          2.2         2.2         2.2          2.2      11.0       44            4.8         6.2
Labor                                                     ilandays   1.00       6,2 0         1.3         1.3          1.3         1.3         1.3         6.5      -              -          6.5
Rural En,- ineer                                           fiaryears  5.00          5         5.0          5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0        25.0      _                        25.0
Sub total                                                                         37.8        37.8         37.8        37.8        37.8      189.0       34           64.9      125.1
Total Road  aeirtenance 3/                                                       121.0        38-3         38.3        50.3        38.3       286.2      53          151.1       135.1
17 Ro mat intenance unit wou1 tsseence work at the beginning of year 1 to open up and maintain existing roads to enable init al service centers to be developed.
Thereafter the unit c uld maintain existinof and pro ,ect constructed roads.  The unit would be ouned, and operated by the Local Nuthority  bho would second it
and the stnff tc the proiect darirf the implrnentaticn phase.  Thereafter the Local kuthorit- would take over full control.
2/ lnclides cost os drivrrer n plorn  t operrator.
3/ Ye-r 1 m3intenance of about 400 krri o.f existirng t ack, year 2 '00 kr.., year 3 820 kh, year 5 1,1L0 km, year 5 1,560 km, year 6 1,780 km, year 7 1,900 km.
4,320 km over firs,t  years at a cost of N 286,000 or N j6 per krm.
M!oveanber 15 , 1973
VI






NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
TYPICAL AGRICULTURAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
CONSTRUCTION BY GRADING                                                  CfL
s      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
CONSTRUCTION IN EMBANKMENT
SPECIFICATIONS
Clearing Width: 40 ft for grading
Clearing Width: 75 ft for embankment
Only where directed by engineer and then full compacted
Surfacing:    thickness as ordered over central 10ft, tapering to zero                                                                                                A
thickness 10ft. eifer side of central line.                                                                                                         II>
Degree of                                                                                                                                                          I-'
CUrvature:    As dictated by terrian
G,adienrit    #mer        14% over length of 1,000 ft
Turnout Drains: Maximum 2,500ft of drains per mile of road
World B.nk-921~3MA






ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation
1.        The project area suffers from extreme shortage of water for
domestic purposes during the dry season and part of the wet season until
village wells start to yield properly. The area is also prone to soil
erosion principally in the catchment areas of small streams and rivers.
Under the ecological and climatic conditions prevailing in the Project
area, soil and water conservation are synonymous with each other, and where
possible would be treated together, particularly as proposed under the
project, water development would be through the construction of surface
water dams.
A. Water Conservation and Rural Water Supplies
2.        Shortage of water supplies for domestic use during the dry season
and beginning of the wet season, January through to August, is acute in
the Project area. It is estimated that the existing wells, dams and tapkis
(ponds) can serve only 10-20% of total demand. Villagers depend for their
supplies on water from wells that on average can only be dug to 10-20 m,
most of which dry up during the dry season. An alternative source of water
are tapkis and small earth dams, but these are infrequent, and at times
poorly sited and constructed, resulting in poor holding capacity and at
times breakages. The final alternative is stream bed wells. These are
seasonally hand dug in water bearing sands of some, but not all, rivers
and streams. In many instances these are last resort supplies resulting
in carry distances of up to 5 miles. Water collected from such sources is
either head or donkey carried, and during the crisis period (from February
to June) is sold at a standard rate of NO.10 (US$0.15) per 20 liters. The
lack of water is a serious social and teclnical constraint, and unless efforts
are made to conserve and improve water supplies the project might only
partially succeed.
3.        Existing plans by the State Government to improve water supplies
in rural areas has been given high budgetary priority. Plans are being
prepared to improve water supplied to larger towns, but for rural villages
efforts rarely go beyond providing assistance for well improvements. The
latter is not the correct policy since the ground water available in the



ANNEX 5
Page 2
shallow aquifer is limited, and new wells themselves dry up and accelerate
the drying up of existing wells. In short it would seem that the draw off
of ground water is greater than its reservoir supply.
4.        The possibilities of utilizing ground water from deep aquifers
have been reviewed. Unfortunately geological conditions in the area are
such that the Basement complex, which is an aquiclude, is of shallow for-
mation and precludes the possibilities of deep aquifers. Furthermore
even if utilization were possible some form of mechanical pumping would
be necessary raising problems of maintenance.  Experience shows that most
of the simple pumps installed in the past have been broken within a year
and subsequently have been rarely repaired.
5.        For the reasons outlined above heavy reliance on dugwells and/or
deep boreholes are impracticable.  Fortunately it is possible to exploit
surface water supplies and to impound wet season (June-September) run off
in small earth dams. The topography and stream pattern for the project
area indicate a promising potential for earth dam construction. This is
further substantiated by the 1:50,000 topographical maps which are available
(with 50 and 25 foot contour intervals) and which indicate a large number
of potential locations for small dam sites.
6.        Hydrological data are generally poor, but enough for small dam
development purposes. Annual rainfall in the project area varies from
700 mm-1,200 mm, and a runoff yield varying from 0.080-0.150 M3/Km2 can
be expected. Evaporation from the natural water surface is very high.
being about 2,000 mm per year.
7.        A careful analysis of the topography, availability of local
construction materials and hydrology indicates that a network of small dams
of about 120,000 m3 in total capacity each, should be built. Each would
be fed by runoff from a catchment of 3 to 4 km2 in area and would be
capable of meeting the year-round demands of 2,000 people and their live-
stock. The dams would be equipped to provide a gravitational distribution
system for conveying water from the reservoir outlet to delivery points at
separate locations for people and livestock.
8.        A typical earthdam for the project area would have specifications
as detailed below:
(i) Features of average dam
-    Total maximum height                           6.70 m
-    Free board                                     1.50 m
-    Depth at spillway level                        5.2  m
-    Total capacity                            120,000  m3
-    Dead storage or sediment space             20,000  m3
-    Useful storage capacity                   100,000  m3



ANNEX 5
Page 3
The spillway overflow with concrete sills with rip-rap in
between (it may be necessary to peg down the rip-rap with
gabion wire in special cases) would be designed by the Soil
Conservation Engineer after he had surveyed the catchment,
studied its characteristics, rainfall intensity and worked
out the run-off.
Dam - earth-fill with clay core if necessary, having 4 m
top width and 1:2 to 1:3 side slopes with rip-rap on up-
stream face, containing about 7,000 m3 of fill.
Foundation - treated to impervious zone.  Core wall would be
installed to an impervious foundation.
Outlet work - outlet pipes of 7.5 cm in diameter laid in
concrete, with at least three concrete flanges, equipped
with a gate valve on the downstream.
Dam design - as portions of the project area are under soils
which contain a high percentage of clay and others under
deep soils containing high sand content, the design of each
dam would be based on the results of soil tests the proposed
borrow and foundation materials.
(ii) Distribution Sygstem
-    Main gravity pipeline - iron pipe of 7.5 cm in diameter
laid at 1:1,000 slope for a distance to clear valley bottom,
not exceeding 300 m.
-    Branch pipeline - iron of 5 cm in diameter conveying water
from the main pipe to the separate delivery points at a
distance of at least 50 m for villagers and 100 m for
livestock from the main pipe.
-    Villager delivery points - installed with an adequate
concrete platform and faucets. 1/
-    2 livestock delivery points - installed with an adequate
brick trough and faucets.
(iii)  Useful life of Tank:       20 years 2/
Design sediment space in tank: 1,200 x 20 x 0.85 = 20,000 m3
1/   The possibility of using hydrograms, for pumping water from the larger
dams to nearby villages should be considered as to cost and applicability.
2/   For this purpose, the first 20 years after completion of the tank are
considered as 'Productive life of the reservoir' and years beyond this
are considered as 'falling' or ' depleting' life.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Total tank capacity:
-    Active or useful storage                   100,000 m3
-    Space for sediment deposit                  20,000 m3
-    Total capacity                              20,000 m
9.        The project could not in the first instance provide sufficient
dams to satisfy all project farmers. However, it would attempt to satisfy
demand in the more critical areas, and provide reserve capacity for most
village unit areas. 85 dams would be constructed over the 5 years of the
project; 5 would be built in year 1, followed bi 20 in each subsequent year.
Thus on average there would be one dam to 90 Ian which approximates to one
per 1200 farming families.
B. Soil Conservation Mfeasures
10.       Soil erosion occurs through overstocking and concentration of
stock at sparsely located watering points, and through poor cultivation
methods including badly aligned planting ridges and late planted crops
at low plant densities.
11.       Virtually no soil conservation measures have been undertaken on
a large scale in northern Nigeria and there are no practical specifications
based on past experience that can be followed. Consequently it would
remain for the project conservation engineer to modify the designs and
layouts as experience is gained during project implementation.
12.       Dam catchments would require special conservation measures to
prevent erosion and siltation. Conservation on other areas would be of a
less intensive nature but designed to provide a basis for any future more
intensive conservation measures that may be required. To avoid concentration
of livestock at the limited number of existing watering places and planned
project dams a number of tapkis (ponds) would be constructed.
13.       Dam Catchment Conservation Measures
(i) Master ridges would be marked with a plough on the contour
so that all cultivation would follow the contour, 3 lines
per 20 ha should be sufficient.
(ii) The Conservation Engineer would locate natural or artificial
water ways approximately 1,000 m apart. He would shape them
to the required size and if necessary have them grassed. In
the second year when the grass had established, 'vee' ditches
or cut-off drains would be constructed.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Specifications. The diversion ditches (cut-off drains) would be
approximatelv 1 ,000 m long draining both ways into the grassed waterway.
The ditches would have a cross sectional area of 0.8 m2 (37 cm deep and
3.6 m wide) and have a grade of 1:400 and be 250 m apart.
Equipment Required. 1 x 125 hp motor grader, 1 x 75 hp tractor
and plow.
14.       Conservation of Other Areas.  A conservation unit would be attached
to the road unit, and as the roads progressed master ridges would be
constructed with a plow over an area extending approximately 2 km each side
of the road. 3 master ridges per 20 ha would be sufficient. At the same
time lines for future access roads to villages or group of farms would be
marked, the natural drainage ways would also be demarcated so that they
would be left out of cultivation and allowed to revert to grass.  In addition
farmers should be encouraged to practice tie ridges (boxed ridges). The
ties would be 1 to 2 m apart and half the height of ridges. This would give
maximum absoption in the early light rains. In the heavy rains the ties
would break and allow the excess water to drain off. Ties would be replaced
towards the end of the rains to assist in improving the infiltration of the
late rains.
15.       Tapkis.  These would be constructed by a 140 hp angle dozer in
shallow depressions with a catchment area of 15 to 20 ha. Should the site
chosen have insufficient catchment, the catchment would be increased by the
use of diversion ditches.
llethod. The dozer would scoop out the earth over an area approx-
imately 40 m x 30 m with an average depth of 1.7 m.  The embankment would be
made around the lower end giving a small increase to the holding capacity of
the tapl;i.  The diversion ditches would b9 constructed by the motor grader
on a 1:500 grade with a capacity of 0.8 m  (37 cm deen and 3.6 m wide).
These would stop short of the tankl and be allowed to discharge towards a
bank 1 m high, 1 m thick and of sufficient length to allow the water to
circulate around the bank into the tapkis.  This would reduce the velocity
and cause the silt to be deposited outside the tapki.
Equipment. N1o additional equipment would be required for tapki
construction as construction by the conservation unit would be done during
the crop growing season. About 160 tapkis would be constructed during the
life of the project.






NIG ER IA
NCRTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation Development Costs
(Naira)
Unit        Unit Cost       Nurfber        Year 1          Year 2           Ye  3           Year 4            Yer              Total         CinExcne  Local
Plant,          and E ui ment
Tractor dozer. ripper  14hp       M     o.          32,800               I     C)  32,800             -                -                1                -             32,800       90   20,520       3,280
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp            No.          51,900               1     C 1)  51,900           -                -                -                -             51,900       90   46,710       5,190
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp          No.          37,600               2     ( 2)  75,200           -                -                -                -             75,200       90   67,680       7,520
Motor grader 125 hp                    No.          29,600               1      ( 1)  29,400           -               -                -                -             29,400       90   26,460       2,940
Agric. Tractor 65 hp                   No.           4,000               4     C 4)  16,000           -                -                -                              16,000      90   14,400        1,600
Compactor                              No.           4,000               1     ( 1)   4,000           -                -                -                -              4,000       90    3,600         400
Water bowser                           No.           1,000               3     ( 3)   3,000            -               -                -                -              3,000       90    2,700         300
Fuel bowser                            No.           4,500               2      ( 2)   9,000           -               -                -                               9,0O        90    8,100         900
Concrete mixer                         No.           1,000               2     (1)   1,000            -                -          (1)   1,000            -              2,000       90    1,800         200
Water pumps                            No.             500               8      (4)   2,000            -               -          (4)   2,000            -              4,000       90    3,600         400
Generator 2.5 kw                        No.          1,000               1      ( 1)   2,500           -               -                -                -              2,500       90    2,250         250
Caravan                                No.           3,000               5     ( 5)  15,000           -                -                -                -             15,000       90   13,500       1,500
Crew vehicle 4 wd                      No.           4,000               6     ( 3)  12,000           -                -          ( 3)  12,000           -             24,000       90   21,600       2,400
Pickup Trucks i ton                    No.           3,200               4      ( 2)   6,400          -                -          ( 2)   6,400           -             12,800       60    7,680       5,120
Lorry 7 ton                            No.           8,000               2      (1)   8,000           -                -          C1)   8,000            -             16,000       60    9,600       6,400
Survey equipment                       Set          10,000               1      ( 1)  10,000           -               -                -                -             10,000       60    6,000       4,000
Sub total                                                                 278,200           -                -                29,400           -           307,600       86  265,200      42,400
Construction PRaterials and Labor
Concrete                               Per dam       1,000              85      ( 5)   5,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000           85,000       -       -        85,000
Fencing                                Per darn      1,000              85      ( 5)   5,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000    (20)  20,000           85,000       50   42,500      42,500
Pipes, fittings etc.                   Per dam       2,000              85      ( 5)  10,000    (20)  40,000    (20) 40,000    (20) 40,000    (20)  40,000            170,000       80  136,000      34,000
Tents and canping gear                 Set          12,000               1      (1)  12,000            -               -                -                -             12,000       80    9,600       2,400
Labor                                  Mandays           1.0        42,000             2,000           10,000          10,000           10,000           10,000        42,000       -        -       42,000
Sub total                                                                  34,000           90,000           90,000           90,000           90,000       396,000      48  188,100    205,900
Plant and Equipment Operating
Tractor dozer/ripper 1e 0 hp           Hours             6.19        8,240             1,486           12,380          12,380           12,380            12,380       51,006       34   17,342      33,664
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp            Hours             9.01        8,240             2,162          18,020           18,020           18,020           18,020        76,262       37   27,470      46,772
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp          Hours             7.89       16,480             3,787           31,560          31,560           31 560           31,560       130,027       44   57,212      72,815
Motorgrader 125 hp                      Hours             7.19       8,240             1,726           14,380          114,360          14,380           14,3bO        59,240       44   20,00t      33,170
Agric. Tractor and Compactor 65 hp    Hours              2.51        8,240               602           8,020            5,020            5,020            5,020        20 682       44    9,100      11,582
Agric. Tractor (with plows)            Hours             1.39       24,720             1,001            88340           8,3,36J0                          o,340        34,301       44   15,119      19,242
Crew vehicle 4 wd                      Hours             1.62       16,800             1,944            6,318            6,318           6,318             6,318       27,216       44   11,975      15,241
Pickup truck !i ton                    Hours             1.40       11,000               840            3,660            3,640            3,640            3,640       15,400      I44    o,776       8,624
Lorry 7 ton                             Hours            2.34        8,300               702            4,680            4,680            4,680            4,680       19,422       44    8,546      10,876
Other                                  Per annum       500                               500              500              500              500              500         2,500      44    1,100       1,400
Sub total                                                                  14,750          104,838          1064,38          1064,b3          1064,b3       434,102      4z  180,708    253,394
Total                                                                     326,950          194,838          1914,b3          224,23b          194,030    1,138,702            034,00b    501,094
November 5, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
A. Organization
1.        The project organization as described in Chapter VI of the main
report would assume responsibility for all existing functions of MANR within
the Funtua Administration Division, except for those aspects concerning animal
health, fisheries, forestry, and irrigation. The project organization would
follow the pattern as shown at Schedule I of this annex and would comprise
a project executive committee, primarily controlling policy, budgets and
audits, and an operational project management unit responsible for the day-
to-day operations involved in implementation of project policies. The project
executive committee and management unit would be established by a Govern-
gazetted order, a proposed draft for which is at Schedule II.
2.        The Funtua Project Management Unit (FPMU) would operate through
a number of sections; the head of each would be responsible to the Project
Manager. The sections would be: Administration, Finance, Technical Ser-
vices, Credit Services, Market Services, and Engineering Services.
3.        The Administration Section would be responsible for personnel ad-
ministration, maintenance of records, organisation of project transport,
office administration, project security and public relations.
4.        The Finance Section would be responsible for budgeting, budget
control, internal audit, procurement, stores, salary payments, accounting
procedures, cost accounting, etc. It would help in setting up financial
procedures for the revolving credit fund, and would conduct the internal
audit of the fund.
5.        The Technical Services Section would provide basic technical sup-
port and services to all those project actions designed to increase farmer
productivity including:
a.   Development Services would provide the coordinating link be-
tween marketing, credit and extension. The project would
have 5 development centers each serving a development area
and controlled by a Development Officer who would coordinate
all project activities within the area. Each area would cor-
respond to one of the five Administrative Districts in the
project area. Apart from coordination the Development Officer
would be directly responsible for extension services. The
latter would be organized on the basis of one Agricultural
Assistant (AA) for farm service center. In turn



ANNEX 6
Page 2
each AA would supervise a number of Agricultural Instructors
(AI) who would work at the hamlet level. The AA and AI would
provide basic extension advice to farmers and groups of farmers.
Associated with the extension service would be a small live-
stock advisory unit that would (i) identify livestock problems
and make recommendations for livestock programs within the
area; and (ii) provide advice on practical animal husbandry
to these farmers engaged in livestock operations sponsored
by the project. In this connection close liaison would be
maintained with MANR veterinary services.
b.   Seed Farms.  Two seed farms at Daudawa and Malumfashi would
be developed to provide part of project seed requirements in
conjunction with contract operations by some of the larger
farmers in nearby areas. The seed farms would also be used
for practical demonstration purposes, applied research and
training.
c.   Farm Management Advisory Service.  This would be a small unit
working closely with the seed farms, providing management
advice to larger "commercial" farmers within the project area.
These farmers would be directed to NAB and/or commercial banks
for farm credit and the unit would assist them in this.
d.   Tractor Hire Services, now supplied by MANR, would be continued
under the project, but would be phased out gradually in favor
of private contractors sponsored by the project.
e.   Training would be undertaken at the Daudawa training center,
the capacity of which would be expanded from 20 to 40 students,
and at a new center to be constructed at Malumfashi. The two
centers would be used initially for training and retraining
project staff in extension, credit, marketing, and other dis-
ciplines. As the project develops more of the available train-
ing capacity would be allocated to project area farmers.
6.        The Credit Services Section would be developed in parallel to the
development services and would be structured around the Development Centers
at District level, and at the farm service centers at farmer level. The
service would provide farmers with inputs on credit or for cash, assist in
recovery of repayments, and keep accounts. An area Credit Officer would
control credit activities within each development area, and each village
service center would have two Credit Assistants (Annex 9 gives details).
7.        The Market Services Section would be responsible for produce in-
spection at produce markets, for market liaison and information, and for the
control and monitoring of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA). It would also be
sary



ANNEX 6
Page 3
responsible for the development of group marketing systems, and where neces-
sary for linking producers directly with distant consumer, e.g. contracts
for maize supply to southern feed mill operators. Each Development Center
would have a marketing supervisor assisted by two market assistants. A
produce examiner would be posted to each farm service center to service
its market. Marketing services would be responsible for the logistics in-
volved in handling and distributing farm inputs. In this respect the pro-
duce examiners would act as storekeepers during the period when markets are
closed, and when the main handling and distribution of inputs would occur.
8.        The Engineering Services Section would be primarily responsible
for implementation of the physical infrastructural program for the project.
It would determine design and make specifications for buildings, houses,
offices, etc. prepare tender documents, evaluate bids, and supervise con-
tractors. It would be responsible for the procurement of all plant, vehicles
and equipment, and for their operation and maintenance. It would prepare
designs for roads and associated structures, dams, and soil conversation
works, and would ensure their construction according to plan. It would
operate a project workshop. Finally it would have a special land use section
to provide support for other project units as well as to provide information
directly relevant to civil works construction. In all instances it would
work closely with Ministry of Works Engineers.
B. Staff Requirements
9.        Details of the number of staff needed for the project, their
availability within the State and probable shortfalls are shown at Tables
1-3 of this Annex. Job descriptions and qualifications for the more senior
positions are at Schedule III. In general existing staff in the State have
received inadequate training and experience to permit them to effectively
manage and operate the project and therefore, internationally recruited
staff would be necessary for some of the key posts. Existing Funtua Division
staff would come under the project and additional staff would be transferred
to the project from other areas of the State. Priority during the first two
years would be given to the project for those Agricultural Assistants com-
pleting ongoing training courses. On this basis sufficient professional and
technical staff would be available. Junior technical staff, particularly
agricultural instructors (Al), would be recruited and trained by the project
at its own training centers. Such training would initially comprise of
simple short courses on specific crops and associated problems. The AI
would receive further training after a period of field experience, and there-
after regular refresher courses. Inexperienced credit and marketing staff
would be trained in a similar manner through a series of inservice training
courses.
10.       The Project Executive Committee on the advice of the Project Mana-
ger would be responsible for the appointment of all senior staff. Staff
appointments at lower levels would be the responsibility of the Project



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Iranagement Unit in consultation with relevant Government departments from
wvhiclh particular transfers might be made. Staff salaries are compatible
with existing Government scales, and would from time to time be reviewed
by the Project Executive Committee.
C. Staff Training
11.       Professional training is provided at universities throughout
Nigeria. The Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria in the North Central State
caters especially for the six northern States, although northern students
attend both Federal and State financed universities elsewhere in Nigeria,
and abroad. A degree in agriculture is given by ABU and the project would
expect to recruit some of its professional staff as they graduate from ABU.
12.       Diplomate (3 year course for holders of West African Schoo,l Cer-
tificate) and certificate (2 year) level training is the responsibility of
the Division of Agriculture and Livestock Service Training (DALST) of ABU.
Graduates of these courses are employed by the Ministries of Agriculture
and Natural Resources of the northern States.
13.       Four schools are operated by DALST:
a.   Samaru (North Central State)
Offering, at present, certificate courses in extension,
farm mechanics, home economics and a diploma course in
home economics. Expansion of this school, planned for
completion by 1975, would add diploma courses in farm
mechanics and extension to the syllabus.
b.   Balcura (North Western State)
Offering a certificate course in irrigation agronomy;
presently located at Samaru pending completion of the
new school at Bakura.
c.   Kaduna Livestock Service Training Center (North Central
State)
Offering certificate courses in livestock and range
management, and diploma courses in animal oroducts in-
spection, and range management.
d.   Kabba (Kwara State)
Offering. diploma courses in agriculture at present, and
certificate courses in agriculture from 1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
14.       Present enrollment at these schools is as follows:
1st Year        2nd Year
School /3            Course                Students        Students
Samaru    1st year agricultural /1            215              -
A-ricultural Assistant (AA)
farm mechanics                    -              16
AA extension                        -              59
oHome Economics Assistant (HA)
home economics                    40             22
Diploma home economics              -              12
Bakura    Irrigation agronomv                  40             25
Kaduna    Livestock assistant /1               81             41
Diploma, animal health              16             13
Diploma, range management           -              12
Kabba     Diploma in agriculture /2           198              -
Total              590            200
/1   1st year general course with opportunity to specialize in the second
year.
/2   Soecial course to give existing Ministry technical staff the oppor-
tunity to upgrade to AS (1972 only).
/3   The capacity of these schools is being increased and it is forecast
that by 1975 Samaru would have a capacity for 600 students and the
other schools 300 students each.
15.       The output of diplomates (Agricultural Superintendents) and
certificate holders (Agricultural Assistants) bonded to work through the
terms of their scholarships for North Central State is forecast as follows:
1974 - 7; 1975 - 25: and 1976 - 31. These together with intra State trans-
fers would meet project requirements.
16.       The existing training of agricultural extension staff, graduates,
diplonates and certificate holders is sadly lacking in practical farm man-
agement, and the ability of senior staff in the field to give advice to
farmers directed at increasing profit margins needs to be greatly improved.
At present extension staff tend to give blanket advice without considering
economic irnnlications.  Training establishments, for both senior and junior
staff should improve the quality of their farm management training.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
17.       Farm training centers are operated by North Central State and
graduate Agricultural Instructors (AI), the lowest grade of extension work-
er. The State also has farm institutes for training farmers and farmers'
sons. Under the project it is proposed to upgrade the existing Daudawa
Farm Institute to a Farm Training Center, and to build a new Farm Training
Center at Ilalumfashi. These centers would be used to train, in the initial
years of the project, project staff particularly AI and Credit Assistants.
Later on the emphasis would be more on farmer training.
18.       The recruitment of individuals for training as agricultural in-
structors, Credit Assistants etc. should not cause too many problems since
the basic primary level of education is relatively good throughout northern
Nigeria, and there is an increasing surplus of West African School Certifi-
cate holders on the labor market.
19.       Staff recruited by the project would be expected to have certain
minimum qualifications: Agricultural Officers - degree in agriculture;
Agricultural Superintendents - diploma or upgraded from lower level; Agri-
cultural Assistant - certificate; Agricultural Instructor - primary seven;
Credit Officer - degree or diploma, or certificate in accountancy preferably
with some commercial bank experience; Credit Assistants - West African
School Certificate; Market Supervisor - degree holder or relevant experience
in market organization; Marketing Assistant - West African School Certifi-
cate; Produce Inspector - primary seven; Rural Engineers - engineering de-
gree.
20.       The terms and conditions of the emplovment of project personnel
would conform with those established for all employees of the State Govern-
ment except that professional and technical grade staff would be provided
housing as an incentive to live and work in remote areas, and that new
terms would be made for both expatriate and Nigerian contract staff. For
expatriate staff contract terms would take into account the international
market for such staff and the benefits that normally accrue to such appoint-
ments. For Nigerian staff contract terms would provide similar benefits as
normal pensionable Government staff but would also provide for a gratuity
(to be determined bv FPEC) in lieu of a pension.
21.       Management Training.  In addition to technical staff, training
project management would play an important role in training staff to fill
managerial positions. In this respect internationally recruited staff would,
as one of their responsibilities, ensure the adequate training of their
subordinates, and would be required to submit to FPEC through the project
manager, quarterly reports on the training aspects of their section. The project
manager would have the overall responsibility for ensuring that an adequate mana-
gement training program is maintained and would report regularly on its
progress. There are sufficient funds available for the recruitment of a
training specialist if the project manager so requires.



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
|EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
FOR
OTF CENTRAL STATE
AND                   _ANO NATURAA RESOCES
PROJECT                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNAIRJC
STN                            C          E
FUNTUVFARMER  CREDT SERVCES  FIANCE                    DMIOISSAHIONMAHCE SERVIES                             F-INTERINO SERVICES            FIDEAATOEIINICALSRIE
FINANCECREDT  A:NE {.                                          AO     N             TE  D-   OFFS '             C  F MARE   FES                 CO CE    INEiT                   SE NI                               FES
MURDEr               P~~LANNING                   HT   NUTI                  TOMCVPCTV
ACCOUNTS            -_            ACCOUNHS                     ERONL                     IN<TEULIOENTE                  LAN  US                         APPINGOA\U   AYS,Ir OCUOCAC
L      IELD                    F  ROCUREMENTS                  TRUNSPORT    l      #       NFT    O                       AE                            UVV          l       <      TDCININC
S TORES O                        RESIOTRY                     M ARKEON                       S  OAODl{<
OCSCURITY                       E  ARS INPUTS                                                                           TRACTDHF    R F I\ s     SER ICEE  FUTT UNI   EACEIERL
-|  RELATIONS    _-|                                          SAPCSOISIDN                                        -    FARM O AEM\                     UNI               UNTO
A I =N ~        FSNRIUIT            FRMR
-.ALLIIIT-IA  ZA.-A  ~             JIURJA-DU4DR
_EE.-I~_A T--
P~~{=
H                                  @1~~MC






ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment of Project Management Unit
1.        As a condition of loan effectiveness the North Central State
Executive Council would be required to publish an "order" in the State
Government Gazet : establishing the Funtua Project Management Unit (FPMU)
and the Funtua Project Executive Committee (FPEC). The order would set out
the objectives and responsibilities of FPMU and FPEC, and would include the
following.
2.        The FPMU would be managed by a Project Manager and its objectives
should be:
(a) development of Funtua Administrative Division with a view
to increasing production of agriculture and raising the
living standards of the rural population;
(b) construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation
works associated with agricultural development;
(c) development and management of seed multiplication farms;
(d) training of project staff and farmers;
(e) provision of village service centers and stores;
(f) provision of extension, credit and marketing services;
(g) procurement of farm Inputs; and
(h)  development of supporting infrastructure such as houses,
buildings, offices etc. for the above services.
3.        The FPMU would be controlled by the Funtua Project Executive
Committee (FPEC) which would be made up as follows:



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 2
(a)  Permanent Secretary            -    Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources.
(b)  Representative                 -    Ministry of Finance.
(c)  Representative                 -    Ministry of Local Government
(d)  Representative                 -    Ministry of Transport and Works
(e)  Representative                 -    Ministry of Economic Planning
(f)  Representative                 -    NCS Water Board
(g)  Representative                 -    North Central State Works Board
(h)  Director of Federal Agricultural Department or representative
(i) Chief Agricultural Officer, for the North Central State
(j) Two members from the project area to be appointed by the
Military Governor
The Project Manager would be the Secretary of the FPEC.
4.        FPEC would be responsible to the Commissioner of Agriculture and
would have the following responsibilities:
(a)  Policy.   FPEC would determine agricultural and development
policy, and would consult with the Federal Government and
the World Bank when any major changes in policy may be
required;
(b) Finance.
(i) FPEC would approve the annual budget and would ensure
that sufficient Government funds are readily available
to the project;
(ii) FPEC would appoint independent auditors;
(iii) FPEC would submit audited statement of accounts to the
Commissioner of Agriculture within four months of the
closure of each financial year;
(iv) FPEC would approve the opening of project bank accounts;
and
(v) the Chairman of FPEC would approve the monthly cash flow
statements submitted by the manager of FPMU;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 3
(vi)   approve annually the terms of lending to project farmers
on the basis of recommendations made by FPMU;
(c) Staff and Personnel Matters. In consultation with the Manager
of FPMU, FPEC would be responsible for the appointment of all
senior project staff and employees, their terms and conditions
of employment and annual review of salaries and allowances;
(d) Award of Contracts. FPEC would on the advice of the Manager
of FPMU be responsible for approval of any single contract
valued at more than N 30,000;
(e) Inter-Lepartmental Coordination. The FPEC through its members
would be responsible for the coordination at Ministry level
for those issues that may effect the proper development of
the project.
Meetings of FPEC
S.    (a)  The Chairman would preside over all the meetings of the FPEC
which he attends, and in his absence the present members would
appoint one of their number to preside over such a meeting.
(b) The Chairman of the FPEC would invite the FPEC to meet at such
time and place as he may think suitable; provided that no more
than three months would elapse between any meeting and the
next. In the absence of the Chairman, the Manager would call
the FPEC to meet whenever he deems this necessary.
(c) Six members of the FPEC would constitute a quorum of any meeting
of the FPEC. The FPEC would pass its decisions by the Majority
of the votes of its members present and voting, and in case of
equality of votes the Chairman would have a casting vote.
(d) The FPEC may call any person to attend any of its meetings
without that person having a counted vote.
6.         FPMU would be responsible to FPEC for the day to day operations of
the project. In particular it would be responsible for the carrying out of
the objectives as stated in para 2 above. FPMU would be managed by a Project
Manager who would report directly to the Chairman of FPEC. The main duties
of FPMU would be:



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 4
(a) the implementation of an agricultural development program
within Funtua Administration Division following the policy
guidelines of the FPEC;
(b) the control and operation of the project revolving credit fund;
(c) the preparation of annual budgets and cash flows for approval
by FPEC. In particular FPMU would submit to the Chairman of
the FPEC monthly cash flow statements indicating any changes
in requirements for State Government funds due to changes in
project expenditures and inflow anticipated from the Federal
Government. Unless informed to the contrary within 5 days of
dispatch of such statements to the Chairman of the FPEC, the
manager would be authorized to make the proposed expenditures.
(d) the recruitment of project staff, in consultation, when
necessary with other Government Departments, and for senior
staff, with approval of FPEC;
(e) the advertising, negotiating, calling for tenders, and after
approval from FPEC, for concluding such contracts with persons
and organizations either inside or outside the State for the
erection of buildings, the construction of civil works and
the supply of goods, services and materials as may seem to be
requisite for the proper discharge of its duties;
(f) the operation of project bank accounts;
(g) the preparation of reimbursement claims against project
expenditure, for submission to the Federal Government and
the World Bank.
7.         FPMU would administer a field evaluation unit that would be
technically directed by a Federal Government controlled Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (PMEU).
8.         FPMU would prepare quarterly and annual reports for the simultaneous
submission to FPEC, North Central State Executive Council, Federal Government
of Nigeria and the World Bank.
9.         FPMU would be delegated any additional duties and powers by FPEC
to ensure the attainment of the objectives as set out in this order.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JOB DESCRIPTIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS OF SENIOR STAFF
PROJECT MANAGER
Experience would be the main criteria for the selection of a Project
Manager, although a formal qualification in agriculture would be important.
At least 10 years' experience in agricultural development work in
the field, including development orientated projects, preferably in Africa,
would be required. A high degree of administrative ability, an experience in
dealing with the highest level of Government, especially in committee work,
and previous involvement in extension in small farmer communities would all
be necessary.
The responsibilities of the Project Manager would be the overall
and complete control of all project activities and the coordination of all
project activities with those of other Federal and State Government agencies
and local authorities.
His duties would include:
(a) control of all project funds with the assistance
of the Chief Accountant;
(b) establishment of a cost analysis and record keeping
system which would enable project progress and
achievement to be monitored and a meaningful eval-
uation of the project's impact possible;
(c) responsibility for project personnel matters with
the assistance of the Chief Administrative Officer;
(d) co-ordination of all project activities;
(e) reporting project progress to Government through
written reports and through the various project
committees; and
(f) training project staff.
The project Manager would be responsible to the Chairman of the
Funtua Project Executive Committee (the Chairman being the Permanent Secre-
tary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources).



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 2
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
The Chief Administrative Officer would be a very senior civil
servant; or have had equivalent experience in a major public corporation or
private company.
In previous employment he would have undertaken senior administra-
tive responsibility, and have gained a thorough understanding of government
procedures.
His duties would include:
(a) responsibility for all project personnel;
(b) project transportation;
(c) maintenance of a project registry;
(d) the physical control and checking of project stores;
(e)  the general project security;
(f) the public relations aspects of the project; and
(g) for training administration staff.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
The Chief Accountant would be a professionally qualified account-
ant with additional training in business management. He should have had at
least 10 years' experience in a senior position in a large public corpora-
tion or commercial company. If possible, he would have a knowledge of bank-
ing and credit procedures. Previous employment involving working with high
ranking government officials would be an advantage.
His main responsibility would be the control of all project fi-
nances on behalf of the Project Manager.  His duties would include:
(a) preparation of budgets, cash flows and estimates
of expenditure for the project;
(b) ensuring correct application for project funds;
(c) assisting the Credit Manager in establishing an
efficient and meaningful system of recording
agricultural credit transactions;
(d) the responsibilities for project stores and
requisites, with the assistance of the section
and department heads, and for stores control
and audit procedures



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 3
(e) internal auditing of project accounts; and
(f) training accounting staff.
CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER
The Chief Technical Officer would be a qualified Agriculturalist.
He would have a thorough knowledge of tropical crop production and related
problems.
He would have had at least 5 years experience in extension work
with small farmers where cotton, groundnuts and cereals were part of the
cropping system.
He would be responsible for all technical aspects of the project
and his duties specifically would include:
(a) organizing research, and seed multiplication and
distribution , with the assistance of the Seeds
Officer and Farm Managers;
(b) supervision of the training program for all exten-
sion staff;
(c) organizing and ensuring the effectiveness of exten-
sion services in the project area;
(d) supervising the Livestock Advisor, the Farm machin-
ery Section and the Farm Management Advisor; and
(e) liaising with and assisting the Market Section to
to ensure it meets the projects' requirements in
marketing.
Hle would be directly responsible to the Project lManager, and would
assist the Project Manager in his dealings with other government and local
authority agencies in matters related to the Technical Services.
CHIEF ENGINEER
The Chief Engineer should be a qualified civil engineer. Some
training in mechanical engineering would be an added advantage.
He would have had at least 5 years' experience in the problems of
rural engineering in developing countries. A sound knowledge and experience
in road, water, and soil conservation engineering would he considered essen-
tial. He would have had senior administrative responsibility in the engin-
eering field and would be accustomed to working with government agencies.
His duties would include;
(a) control of all project engineering activities;
(b) budgetary control;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 4
(c)  the preparation of all tenders, contracts, and
quantity surveys;
(d)  supervision of land use planning, and the design
of project roads, buildings and dams; and
(e)  for the efficient coordination of the different
units of the Project engineering services, and
closely liaison with those other Government depart-
ments, such as the Ministry of Works and the
Ministry of Local Government, who may be asso-
ciated with the project.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
CREDIT MANAGER
The Credit Manager would be a professionally qualified accountant
with a demonstrable sound working knowledge of the establishment and cbr-
poration of rural credit institutions. He would have at least 5 years of
experience in responsible positions in smallholder rural credit admini8tra-
tion, and have a record of sound administrative ability. Experience in the
formation of farmers' credit groups or societies and working with these or-
ganizations, and/or cooperatives, would be an advantage.
His prime responsibility would be the control of project farmer
credit operation; which would involve initially the disbursement of loans in
kind and their recovery.
His responsibilities would include:
(a)  formation of a Revolving Credit Fund as out-
lined in the project appraisal report;
(b)  establishing an efficient accounting and re-
cording system for farmers' loans;
(c)  requisitioning of funds and other required in-
puts for timely disbursement and supply to
farmers;
(d)  liaison with the Evaluation Unit to provide data
and information needed in project evaluation; and
(e)  training of credit staff.
The Credit Manager would be responsible to the Project Manager.
CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER
Senior management responsibility in a large marketing organization
would be the principal qualification of the Chief Marketing Officer.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 5
He would have experience in the production, primary marketing and
selling of tropical crops, particularly cotton, groundnuts and maize.
He would be responsible for the project's Mlarketing Services, and
his duties would include:
(a) monitoring and controlling the operations of all
licensed buying agents operating in the project
area;
(b) establishing a market information service;
(c) liaison with the statutory marketing boards and
other organizations private and public, to
ensure the effective marketing and smooth flow
of produce from the project area; and
(d) co-ordinating with the Credit Manager to estab-
lish a system of credit collection at time of
crop marketing.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
SENIOR FARM MANAGER
The Senior Farm rfanager would have some formal training in Agri-
culture, but more importantly would have had at least 10 years' successful
experience in managing large commercially oriented farms in the tropics.
A specific experience of cotton, groundnuts, sorghum and maize production,
or at least two of these crops would be required. Previous experience in
growing these and other crops for seed production would be helpful.  A sound
knowledge of farm recording and accounting procedures would be essential.
The Senior farm manager would manage one of the project farms and
would through another manager be responsible for the second project farm.
In total he would be responsible for the efficient operation of a 400 ha
unit growing cotton, groundnuts and cereals for seed.
Ilis duties would include:
(a) budget preparation and cash flow control for
the farm;
(b) preparation and implementation of a cropping
plan for the farm;
(c) establishment, maintenance and operating of a
suitable seed dressing and cleaning unit for
the farm;
(d) procuring, maintaining, and operating appro-
priate farm machinery;
(e) control of farm labor;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 6
(f) assisting the Farm Management Advisor in pro-
viding advice and assisting the large privately
owned farm units of the project area, especial-
ly those growing seed on contract;
(g) liaison with the Seeds Officer on technical seed
production matters; and
(h) training junior staff in practical large scale
farming.
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
SEEDS OFFICER
The Seeds Officer would have had formal training in Agriculture or
Agricultural Botany. He would have had specific experience in commercial
large scale seed production, preferably with at least two of the following:
cotton, groundnuts, maize, and sorghum. He would advise the Managers of the
Seed Multiplication Farms on seed production and would be responsible for
ensuring the distribution of improved seeds to farmers in the project area.
His duties would include:
(a) advising and assisting the Farm Managers in pro-
curing and operating suitable seed cleaning and
dressing units;
(b) sponsoring progressive farmers in seed production
and thereafter for advising them in seed production
techniques;
(c) the building up of a viable seed industry in the
project area; and
(d) the training of technical and professional pro-
ject personnel in seed production and distribution.
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
FARM MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
The Farm Management Advisor should be a fully qualified agricul-
turalist specialized in Farm Management. Experience in Farm Mtanagement in
tropical agriculture would be an advantage. He would be responsible, under
the direction of the Chief Technical Officer, for all Farm Management Ex-
tension work within the project, such work would be directed towards the
needs of the larger farmers of the project area.
Hlis duties would include:
(a) assisting larger farmers within the project
area by preparing farm plans, cropping systems,
budgets, cash flows, loan applications and any
other similar assistance for the efficient op-
eration of their farns;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 7
(b) assisting the farm managers in preparing farm
plans, budgets, cash flows and any other neces-
sary records for the Seed Mlultiplication Farms;
(c) training project staff in Farm Management methods;
and
(d) assisting the Evaluation Unit in data collection.
LIVESTOCK ADVISOR
The Livestock Advisor would have formal training in Veterinary
Science or Animal Husbandry, and would have had experience in Animal Hus-
bandry work in tropical countries.
He would be responsible for the preparation of a long term plan
for livestock development within the project area. This would be based on
an analysis of the potential for on-farm systems of livestock and associated
feed production, and inter alia would be aimed at the evolvement of systems
to make better use of communal grazing lands.
LAND USE PLAINMING OFFICER
The Land Use Planning Officer would have had formal training in
agricultural, soil science or land resource use; land surveying and photo-
grammetry. Previous experience in Land Resource work and associated land
and agricultural development planning would be essential.
Duties of the Land Use Planning Officer would be to:
(a) prepare specifications for the production of
aerial photographs and uncontrolled mozaics
of the project area;
(b) undertake a complete photo analysis of the
project area and prepare land use resource maps
and inventory of the area;
(c) plan, in conjunction with the Chief Technical
Officer, the location of roads and dams to be
constructed under the project;
(d) prepare all drawings etc. of dam, soil conserva-
tion and road designs that may be submitted by
the engineering sections of the project;
(e) undertake any such other mapping and surveying
considered necessary by the Chief Engineer;
(f) undertake photoanalytical work that may be re-
quired by the evaluation unit or Chief Technical
Officer;
(g) give general guidance on Land Resource use to
Engineering and Technical Services staff; and
(h) training Nigerian staff in land use and asso-
ciated teclniques.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 8
He would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.
SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION ENGINEER
The Soil and W4ater Conservation Engineer would have had formal
training in engineering, preferably related to dam construction and soil con-
servation. He would have had at least 5 years' experience in earth dam con-
struction and soil conservation in Africa. He would be responsible for over-
all supervision of the dam construction and soil conservation component of
the project. His responsibilities would include:
(a) survey and design of water catchment areas and dams;
(b) design planning, and supervision of construction of
all soil conservation work;
(c) liaison with the Road Engineer and Land Use Planning
Officer in integrating dam construction and soil con-
servation works into a general land use plan and the
road building program; and
(d) training project staff in dam construction and soil
conservation work.
The Soil and Water Conservation Engineer would be responsible to
the Chief Engineer.
'[ECYHICAL ENGINEER
The 'Mechanical Engineer would be a professionally qualified engin-
eer with specific experience in operating and maintaining heavy earth moving
machinery. His principal duties and responsibilities would be supervising
the operation and maintenance of all project plant, equipment, and vehicles.
His duties would include:
(a) establishment of a workshop capable of maintain-
ing project plant, equipment and vehicles;
(b) ordering and maintaining an appropriate supply
of stores and spare parts;
(c) ordering and maintaining an adequate and suitable
fuel supply; and
(d)  training of Nigerian mechanical engineers.
Ile would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.
ROAD ENGINEER
Successful experience in the design, construction and maintenance
of earth roads in tropical climates would be the main qualification of the
Road Engineer.  The Road Engineer would be responsible for implementing the
project road program. IHis duties would include:



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 9
(a)  advising the Chief Engineer on road design,
drainage and water disposal, culverts and river
crossing designs;
(b) the direction of all machinery and equipment put
at hiis disposal for construction purposes;
(c) the preparation and maintenance of records
adequate to enable unit costs to be established;
(d)  evaluation of road construction program and tech-
niques used; and
(e) training Nigerian engineers in road design and
construction methods.
Head PMEU Evaluation Section
The Head would be responsible for the operations of the
Evaluation Section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(PMEU), and would direct the individual project evaluation programs
for the Funtua, Gombe and Gusau projects. He would be responsible
to the Director of the Federal Department of Agriculture.
The post would require advanced post graduate training, preferably
a PhD in agricultural economics, as well as considerable field experience
involving economic and social survev work in Africa. Total field experience
should not be less than five years.  His duties would include:
(a) preparing and controlling the budgets of PMEU's
evaluation section;
(h)  preparing a comprehensive evaluation program
based on a scientifically designed sampling
system;
(c) administrating the nrogram and its staff;
(d) controlling and supervising the field evalua-
tion teams;
(e) analysis of collected field data; and
(f)  production of evaluation reports for the
Governments and other institutions concerned.
SENIOR RESEARCHI OFFICERS
Two senior officers would support the Hlead of PMEU's evaluation
section.  Both positions would be filled by researchers with post-graduate
qualifications, nreferably PhD. One post would be filled by an experienced
statistician well versed in the technical aspects of sampling surveying;
development of svstems suitable for computer programming, and for the analysis



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 10
of results. The other post would be filled by a rural sociologist experienced
in surveys and evaluation. Such a man would have considerable field experience
in Africa. The Senior research officers would be expected to train the more
junior staff in their disciplines. In particular, they would be required to
assist the Director in formulation and subsequent modification as desired of
the five year evaluation program.
SENIOR EVALUATION OFFICFR
A senior evaluation officer would be required to direct the field
enumeration units attached to the individual project. This job would be
essentially to supervise enumerators, implement programs set out by the Head
of PMEU's evaluation section, and feed back the required information for
analysis. His views and suggestions would be taken into account during the
programming of the enumeration process and any subsequent amendments to it.
The senior evaluation officer would be technically responsible to the Head of
PMEU evaluation section, and administratively responsible to the project, manager.
The senior evaluation officer would have post graduate training
in agricultural economics, or rural economics: and would have controlled and
directed field enumeration units.



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNITUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements: a,oject Administration Head Of'fice Unit
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4          Year 5           Year 6           Year 7          Year 8          fears 9-25
Status          SOOO CL   SCO  CL   SO 0C L   SCO  OL   SO 0C L   SOOC L   SOOC L   S6OOC L   SOO0C L
Pr7oject Aanager                                 International   1  ---              1--    1---            1-- I          -          -  - -   -      -  -   -  -      -  -  -   -      -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Project Manager                                  Local             -  --       -    -  -   -  -     -  -   -  -       1---           1  ---           1 --                 - -1               -            - -
Chief Administrative Of'ficer                    Local             1 ---            1  -  --        1 ---            1 ---           1  - --          1- -              1       -1            --- -
r,hief Accountant                                International    1 --   -          1  - --         1  -  --         1 ---            1  -   -        - -   - -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -   -  -
Principal Accountants                            Local              1---             2--    2 -  - -         2       2-  --           2  - --         2  - --          1  ---           -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Accountants                                      Local             - 2  --          -64- -          -      --        -  4  -  -       -64- -          -  4  - -        - 2  --          -  1  -  -       -1I- -
Executive Officers                               Local             - 3 --    - 5- -    -5--                          - 5 --    - 5 --    - 5- -    - 3 --    - 2 --    - 1- -
Confidential Secretary                           Local             - 2 --    - 2 --    -2--                          - 2 --    - 2- --    -1--    - 1 --    - 1 - -    - 1 -,
Clerical1Officers and Stenographers              Local             -  -  5  -       -  - 10  -      -  - 10  -       -  -10  -        -  - 10  -      -  -10  -        -  -  6  -       -  -  6  -       -  -  6  -
Clerical Assistant l/                            Local             -  -15  -        -  - 30  -      -  -645  -       -  -45  -        -  -645  -       -  -25  -       -  - 15  -       -  - 15  -       -  - 15  -
Messengers and Casual Labor                      Local             -  -  - 10       -  -  - 20       -  -  - 20      -  -  - 20       - -  -  20       - -  -  12       - -  -  12      -  -  - 12       -  -  - 12
Total Requirements                                4  7 20 10       5 11 40 20       5 11 55 20      6 11 55 20       5 fl1 55 20      4 10 35 12       3  6 21 12      2  4 21 12        2  3 21 12
Incr,miental1Requirements                         6 720 10         16420 10         - -15   -       1  -  --         -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Existing Staff                                     -  -  -  -      -  -   -  -      -  -   -  -     -  -  -   -      -  -  -   -      -  -   -  -      -  -  -   -      -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Trained Staff to be recruited                     46720 10         16420 10         - 15-           1  -  --         -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
1/ Including development center allocation.
SO = Senior Officer       C = Clerical
0 =Officer               L =Labor
November 6, 1973



NED ERI A
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FONYUA AGRSSIMURAL DEVELOPSENT PROJECT
Staff Requir-eets - Field Servicee 
--Year  1- Year--Y         2- Year--Y.   3--              --Y Year Is-- --Y Year  5 - Y-   --ear 6- Year--Y.   7--                   --Year, 8-Ye - -ars- 9-25--
Status    AO  AS  ARA  Hl  AO  AS  A-A  HI  AS  AS  AA  AHI  HO  AS  AA  AI  AS  AS  HA  ASlH AO  AS A   Al  AS  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  A.A  ALl  AS  AS  HA  AlE
Chief Teohnical Officer                                Inter.    1   -   -   -   1                           -   -   - 1       -   -   -1- - -- -                                                                      
1. Seed Meltiplication
Seeds Officer                                      Inter.    1                   1   -          --1                                               - -          --          - -- --                     -1 
Fara Managw                                        Enter.- - --               - -  -   -   2             2-    -   -   1   -   -   -   1 -              - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
kaeistant F-rsMarger                               Local           S -   2   -   -   -   2               2           -     2   -   -   -   2     -   -       - 2          -         2     -       -   2   -   -   -   2   - -
Seed Assistants                                    Local   ----1I-Is   - - 6   -    - 6-1                                                        6  -1I-6-1                           6           1  -6  - 1-6-
Wutrov. ar .istante                                Local-                                -   -   - -s -   -   -                                    Is -   -2  -      Is4  -   -   -     Is -   -   -       Is -   -4   -      Is   - 
2. Traininep
Prinlpa1l- Traiinlg etrLca -.S.                                                  - -   S -2  -           2   -   -   -   2   -   -   -   2 - - -                 2   -   -   -   2   -   -   -   2   -   -   -   2   - -
Staff - TaAiig Center                              Luc.1           -   S   -   -   -   Is -   -   -  6            -   -   -   6   -               6    -   -   -   6 - - -   6   -   -   -   6   -   -   -   6 -
3. ExteneAns
Seni-rDeeelopmeft0Officer                          Local       1   -   -   -   1 - - -                               1      - - - 1 - - - 1 - - -                                                                                
Katrnsion ServicePe-scnnel                         Local       -   5 15   60          5 35 115    -         60 A240         5 77 300    -   577 300    -   577 300    -   577 225-l                     577 150    -   57777
Is. Li-estock
Live-tock Advisor                                  Inter-1-                                - -      -   1   - -- -         1 -       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                          
Liveetock Assistants                               Loc.l                      -   -   -5 -   -   - 3             -   -   -  5       -   -   -                        S     -                -   -   -  5       -   -   -   S 
5. Fare Macblear
FsrnMechanisatlon0Officer                          Loca1       -              1   -   -   -1 - - - 1 - - - 1 - - - 1 - - - 1 - -                                                                  -1       -     -    -       - -
Fareliedsanisatien Assistants                      Lnosa       -   -   5                              5  -   -   -   5               -     5  -   -   -   5- - - 5                           -   - 5   -   -   -   5               -
6. Fare Mas~esg nt
Fram Managsnnt Adelesr                             Inter            -    - - 1    -                                              - - -- - -1-                               - --             - -- --                 -1 
Far,Mansgsent Assistant                            Local       -   -   -   -   2-  -   -           5 -        -   -5        -   -   -  5       -   -   -   S   -   -   -   S   -   -   -   S   -   -   -   S      -   -
Total Reqeire,nent                                             #1l_'22  6o    14i/13&'51 Is0  1064"13'HIs 2140  10  12 103 300   7  11 103 300   7  10 103 300   6  10 103 225   6  15 103 150   6  10 103  77
Iocrssetal Reqirsaant                                          3 12 2260    Is   1  29803-3 31100o   -  -19  60    - - - - -                                                                                               
Exlstlng Stsff                                                 -   2 15214        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     
Staffavailsblefron  exi.ting  Traiig  Schemes                  -   -   7   -   -   - 25    -   -   - 31    -   -   - 19              -                                                                                                
ShortfallSenior StafflI/                                       3  10  -    -   Is   1   Is   -3          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Juio, Staff fromProject Training                               -   -   - 36    -   -   -80    -   -   -100o   -   -   - 60                                                                                                   
Credit Srie
Credit Manager                                     Inter.    1   -   -   -  1         -                                                            --- ---  1--- --- -1  -   -- -- 1
Senior Credit Offleer                              Local       1 - - - 1 -                                  1               -      1    -   -   -   1- -   -1 - I              -         1   -   I          -        1   - - -
Deelopent CenterECredit Supervisors                Wocal       -    5        - -5    -   -   -   5   -    -   -   5   -   -   -   5   -   -   -   5   -                    - -      5 - -         -   S   -   -   -   5   - -
ServiceCenter0Credit Ansletast.                    Local1      -  -15   -    -   - 35   --                  ? -   -    77-     -   - 7             77        -       77-      77- -   -    77- 77-
S-roce Center angsekr                              Loca    - -15 --  - 35  --  -77 --  -??-   -77-   --  77                                                                            77 7--   7                    -77-
P,lnolpalECeditkAcountant                          IensI       1I               -   -   -1 - - - 1 - - - 1 - - - 1 - -                                                         1 - -              1 - - - 1 - - -
Credit kccstante                                  tonal       - 2   -   -   -   Is   -   -   -   5-                                     5   -   -   - 5    -              - -      S      -   -      -         - -       5   - -
Machine Operators                                  Local         - - 4I    -   -   -   Is -   -   -   Is                    -   -   - Is           -                  4   I   -   -   - Is   -   -   - Is   -   -   - Is -4- I 
Total Requirmea,t.                                             3   7  3Is4        3   9  7Is4       3  io 158    -   310 158-    3 10 158    -   210 158    -   2 10 158    -   2 10 158    -   2 10158                            -
Innr,nenta Requirseent                                         3  734-    -   2 ho    - -   I BIs                                                      - - - - - - - - -                                               
N xistieg    Staff-                                                 -   -    -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -
Traied Staff tnberaoruited                                     3  7    -   -   -   2   -   -   -   1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Staff to berecruited and project truined                       -   -  34Is            -   -   -             84o  -   -   -       -HIs                               - - - - - - -                                             
Market Serv-ic as
dhRIefRarketlng Officer                            Inter.      1   -   -   -                                                     - -1- --- --- ----1- --- --- --- -1
Development enter Markting Spacri.or               Local       -   5   -   -   -  5        -   -   -   5 - -   -          s -        - -       $   -   -   -   5   -   -   -   5   -   -   -   5   -   -                       - -
Market Assistant.                                  Local       - -   5   -   -   - 15-    -   - 10    -   -   - 10    -   -   - 10    -   -   - 10                         -      - -10    -   -   - 10   --    -    10
FrodaceInspectors                                  local   - 30--  - 50  --- 77 --  -??7-  -   -77--                                                                 77  - - 77---   77 7---77
Total Requireent                                               1   5  35     -   1   5  60o          1   5  87   -   1   5  87 - - 187-   -   5  87                        -   -   5  87      - -   5  87        - -   5  87 -
Incrennctsl eqlr-ennt                                          1  535    -   -   -  2 S-2 -   -   -                              - - - - - - - - -                                                                          
EoistlegpStaff                                                 -   -  3                                               - - - - - - - - - -                                                                           
Trolnedstaff to beecrultcd                                     1   25                                                                                                                                                         
Staff t. b. sre .ritedond project troined                      -   3   5   -             25    -   -   - 27       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I/ Senior etaff shortfall onuld be eade up by truee    ihnRat    eta    tae                          Ooo68 AS aciet.
10 l,oca  AS.
10 local AI.
6/  7 loca  AS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c
7/ 15 loca  AI. _,    o    il    ,J.i                i    ,     -a    ne     ,Tb.1
E/ Staff raqaireatefrfedeesto emtaesoeaHns9.Tbe.



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRI5ULTUR AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Engineering
--Year 1---       --Year 2---       --Year 3---       --Year 4---       --Year 5---       --Year 6---        -Years 7-25-
Status           PO_/STA  T4       PO  STA  TA       PO  STA  TA       PO  STA  TA       PO  STA  TA        PO  STA  TA       Po  STA  TA
EngineerinE Services
Chief Engineer                                International   1   -    -          1   _       _     1   _    _         1   -    _        1
Planning Section
Land Use Planning Officer                     International   1   -    -          1   -       -     1
Rural Engineer                                Local             1   -    -        1   -       -     1                             - _  1             - _  1
Tracer/Draughtsmen                            Local             -   1    5        _             1              5           1    3             1    3       -   1    1
Building Section
Superintendent of Works                       Local             1   -    _        1                                        - _  1                  - _  1
Tracer/Draughtsmen                            Local             -   1    1        -   1       1     -   1    1         -   1    1
Road Section 2/
Road Engineer                                 International   1   -    -          1   -       -     1   -    -         1
Rural Engineer                                Local             3   -    -        5   -       -     5   -              5                 3                  2
Inspector of Works                            Local             1   -    -        1   -                                I 1   -    -  1   -    -  1
Soil and Water Conservation Section 2/
Conservation Engineer                         International   1   -    -          1   -             1   -              1                 -
Dam Sir vey                                   Local             1   2    -        1   2       -     1   2    -         1   2    -        1   2              -
Soil Conservation Survey                      Local             1   3    -        1   3       -     1   3    -         1   3    -        1   3    -        1   3    -         1   3
Dam Construction Unit                         Local             1   2    -        1   2       -      1   2    -        1   2    -        1   2                   -     -        -    -
Mobile Wcrkshop                               Local             1   2    -        1   2       -      1   2    -        1   2    -        1   2                   -     -        -    -
Soil Conservation                             Local             1   2    -        1   2       -     1   2    -         1   2    -        1   2    -        1   2    -         1   2
W.!orkshop Services 3/
Mechanical Engineer                           International   1   -    -           1   -      -      1   -    -        1             -    -        -   -         -     -        -    -
Assistant Mechanical Engineer                 Local             2   -    -        2   -       -      2   -    -        2   -    -        2   -              2          -        -    -
Total Engineering Requirements                            18  13    6       20  13      6    20  13    6        19  13    4       13  12    3         6   6    1        2   5
Incremental Requirements                                  18  13    6        2
Existing Staff
Trained Staff to be eimployed                              8         6
Staff to be employed and trained                          l0i  3     -       2
1/ To be called Rural Engineer - most will be piupil engineers initially - if professional officers not available Technical Officers will be substituted.
2/ Non technical staff included under labor in operating costs. Drivers and machine operators also included under hourly operating charges.
3/ Mechanics etc. included under machine operating costs.
4/ Local qualified engineers, but without practical experience require inservice training.
November 7, 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs
1.         The traditional agriculture of the Funtua area uses almost no
modern agricultural inputs. Currently there is very little demand for, and
very little supply of, such inputs as fertilizers, insecticides, sprayers
and other farm machinery. Yet, if the project is to achieve its goals, the
project must make available a supply of these inputs, create a demand for
them, develop the means for farmers to acquire them, and educate farmers in
their use - even supervise their use where necessary to assure results.
2.         At present suppliers of farm inputs in the project area are either
absent or inadequate. Therefore, the project would be an importer and re-
tailer of critical farm supplies and equipment. These supplies include
1,800 m tons fertilizer in year one, increasing to 22,370 m tons in year five;
4,000 sprayer kits in year one increasing to 14,000 in year five; as well as
ox drawn equipment, seeds, and insecticides. The logistics of acquiring,
moving and distributing these quantities would be substantial and would be
the responsibility of the Chief Marketing Officer. The selling price of
inputs would be based on an ex-farm center store cost.
3.         Inputs would be transported to the project center at Funtua where
a 4,000-ton storage facility would be constructed at Funtua railway yard and
to 77 village stores each with a 500-ton storage capacity. Rail to village
store transportation would be arranged with private truckers, many of whom
would be LBA transport contractors who would welcome back haul loads while
moving produce from village to market.
4.         Seasonal inputs include fertilizers, insecticides, seeds and bat-
tery sets for ULV sprayers. Fertilizers would be purchased in 50 kg bags
clearly marked to distinguish kind. The landed cost per m ton in the village
store (including a 10% handling charge) is estimated at N 196.40 for calcium
ammonium nitrate, N 183.20 for single super phosphate, and N 113.80 for muriate
of potash. Insecticides for cotton and cowpeas would cost farmers an esti-
mated N 1.65 per kilogram and for maize about N 0.33 per kilogram. Battery
sets for sprayers would cost about N 2.64 per set. Improved seeds would be
made available at varying costs.
5.         Subsidies.  NCS would continue to subsidize nitrogenous and phos-
phatic fertilizers to an amount of 50% of cif village store cost. At present
farmers pay N 40 per m ton for ammonium sulphate and N 32 per m ton for sin-
gle superphosphate (less than projected cif Nigerian ports price). To date,
muriate of potash has hardly been used in northern Nigeria. It has not been



ANNEX 7
Page 2
subsidized, and would not be under the project. Conversely it has been
Government policy to subsidize cotton insecticides. In the expectations of
increasing yields by as much as 400% under the project through spraying, and
associated practices, and because a large number of farmers would be involved,
compared to the negligible number at present, it is considered desirable that
cotton insecticides would not be subsidized. The subsidy element for fer-
tilizers is shown in Table 1.
6.         Sales of Seasonal Inputs.  It is expected that 25% of seasonal in-
puts would be sold for cash at farm service centers. Payments would be
made at the service center, recorded by cash register, and simultaneously
entered in the stores register. The remaining 75% of seasonal inputs would
be sold on credit. The credit system is described in more detail in Annex 8.
Sales on credit would be in kind and would be similar to the system for a
cash sale except that they would be registered on the farmer's credit card.
Tables 2, 3, and 4 show the amounts involved.
7.         Medium Term Inputs and Farm Equipment include ULV sprayers, ox
drawn equipment kits and tractor kits. These would be procured by the pro-
ject for sale to farmers. ULV sprayers together with protective gloves and
face masks would be sold for N 14.9. An estimated 47,000 sprayer kits would
be made available to farmers over the 5 year development period (Table 5).
Ox drawn kit at N 165 each would include an ox cart, plow and ridger. An
estimated 10,000 ox drawn kits are expected to be taken up over 5 years in
the project area (Table 5); mainly to larger farmers owning at least 6-10 ha
of land under cultivation. The project would not supply oxen. Farmers in-
terested in obtaining ox equipment would be expected to acquire oxen with their
own resources. Extreme difficulties are involved in supplying oxen on credit,
given their relatively high value and the opportunity of realizing this
through sale for meat.
8.         Tractor and Equipment  At present the Government supports a limited
but totally uneconomic tractor hire service within the project area. This
service would be phased out during the project period and would be replaced
by contract tractor operations provided by private entrepreneurs receiving
credit under the project. About 100 such loans would be made initially, and
would be made primarily to existing transport contractors, small businessmen
or larger farmers. The project would provide such contractors with maintenance
services, through its mechanical workshop and field servicing units, short
training courses for tractor drivers, and would direct operators to selected
areas. The tractor kit would include a 65 hp tractor, trailer, chisel plow,
disc harrow and a ridger. The project management would select a standard make
and specifications for the kit, taking into account prices obtained through
domestic competitive bidding, which would require a minimum level of local
maintenance service to be provided by the tractor suppliers. Project management
would help to establish realistic and fair hire rates for contractors. By the
fifth year of the project, tractor cultivations could be extended some 6,000
to 8,000 ha annually and if successful could be further expanded.



NIGERTA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTIA AGRICUL'IURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Cost Assumptions on Farm Inputs
N
- --------------Fertilizer Metric Tons--------------
Calcium                           Muriate    Single         Insecticide    Insecticide
Ammonium    Ammonium               of         Super-        for Cotton      for Maize/       Battery    Spraying        Ox Drawn      Tractor and
Nitrate     Sulphate    Urea       Potash     Phosphate    per liter        kg 9/            Sets       Equipment 1/   Equipment    Equipment
cif Lagos US$                        218         178        348         105          200              -               -             -           20.0            -
cif Lagos N                          144         117        230          69          132              -               -             -           13.2            -
Port Handling Charges                  2.5          2.5       2.5         2.5          2.5            -               -             -            0.1            -
Lagos - Funtua                        32.0         32.0      32.0        32.0         32.0            -               -             -            0.2            -
Cost f.o.r. project store            178.5        151.5     264.5       103.5        166.5            1.50            0.3           2.40        13.5          150.0 3/        5,750
Project handling charges 10% 8/       17.9         15.1      26.5        10.3         16.7            0.15            0.03          0.24         1.4            7.5 '/          250
Cost  farm   service center          196.4        166.6     291.0       113.8        183.2            1.65            0.33          2.64        14.9           157.5
Less 50% Government subsidy           98.2         83.3     145.5         -           91.6            -               -             -            -              -               -
Farmer price - cash                   98.2         83.3     145.5       113.8         91.6            1.65            0.33          2.64        14.9          157.5           6,000
Farmer price - Credit                108.0        91.6      160.0       125.2        100.8            1.80            0.36          2.90        17.2 2/         5/              6/
Per kg value of nutrient               0.76         0.79      o.63      N/A            1.15         N/A             N/A           N/A          N/A            N/A             N/A
1/ Includes sprayer $14, gloves $2, 5 gallon plastic can and funnel $2 = total $20 - based on purchase of 7,000 units at a time.
2/ Interest @ 10% over 2 years.
3/ Includes ox cart and plow/ridger - locally made at Zaria or Kano.
Z/ Service charge 5%.
/ Farms required to make a 20% down payment and receives credit for balance at 10% over 3 years.
/ Farmer or contractor cost inclusive of service charge up to N 6,000.  Farmer place 30% down payment - repayment N 10% over 4 years.
7/ N 0.05 per ton mile, 640 miles is N 32.0.
9/ Covers internal project transport, loading, unloading, storage clerks etc.
9/ 5% DDT granules - applied at 6 kg/ha.
July 16, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNI'UA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNNT PROJECT
Seasonal Fertilizer Requirements - Amount and Cost
Ye-ar
1            2             3            4            S
Nitrogenous Fertilizer 1/ (m tons)
Cotton                                              340           990        2,240         3,345        3,900
Maize                                                -            140         800         2,500        4,250
SorEhum                                             500         1,000        2,000         2,900        3,600
Total m tons                              840        2,130         5,o40        8,745        11,750
Superphesphate 2/ (m tons)
Cotton 3                                            340           990        2,240         3,34s        3,900
Sorghum                                             500           900        1,800         2,500        3,000
Maize                                               -              40          300         1,000        1,500
Groundnut                                            60           340          840         1,130        1,690
Cowpeas                                              60            80          100           120          150
Total m tons                              960        2,350         5,280        8,095        10,240
Puriate of Potash
Maize m tons                                        -              10           80           250          380
Foreign Exchange
Cost                                                -------------------------N'OOO-------------------------            Total                 Cost           Local Cost
Nitrogenous fertilizer 4/ @ W 196.4/m ton           165.0         418.3        989.9       1,717.5      2,307.7      5,598           77     4,086.8           1,511.6
Superphosphate 5/ @ N f83.2/m  ton                  175.9         430.5        967.3       1,483.0      1,876.0      4,932.7         72     3,551.5           1,381.2
huriate of potash 5/ @ N 113.8/m ton                   -            1.1          9.1          28.5         43.2          81.9        60         49.1             32.8
Total                                     340.9         849.9      1,966.3      3,229.0       4,226.9     10,613.0         72     7,687.4           2,925.6
Sertilizer 5'qsiay 6/                               170.5        424.4         978.6       1,600.3      2,091.9      5,265.7         72     3,791.3           1,474.4
Balance 7/                                          170.4         425.5        987.7       1,628.7      2,135.0      5,347.3         72      3,896.1          1,451.2
Incremental Balance:                                170.4         255.1        562.2         641.0        506.3       2,135.0        72      1,537.2            597.8
Incremental 'ash Sales   h/                        42.6          63.7         140.5        160.2        126.5         533.5        72        384.1             149.4
Incremental Credit Sales _                         127.8        191.4        421.7         480.8        379.8       1,601.5        72      1,153.0            448.5
Annual Credit Requirement Lu/                     127.8         319.2        740.9       1,221.7      1,601.5
1/ Estimated on the basis of using calcium ammonium nitrate.
2/ Based on using sinEle superphosphate.
3/ Boronated.
b/ At village service center - estimated on calcium ammunium nitrate.
A/  t village service center.
£/ 50% on N and P205.
7/ 5O0t N and P205 + 100% mauriate of potash.
7/ 25% of total incremental balance.
7/ 75,4 of total incremental balance.
10/ Lent to farmers on a seasonal basis at a flat rate of 10%.
July 29, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICU1TURAL DEVELOIE2fNT PROJECT
Seasonal Requirements for Seeds, Insecticides and Batters Sets
Year 1        fear 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5        Total                       O           Cost
A. Quantities
Seeds m tons
Sorghum                                           60           112           224            316           384         1,09b
Maize                                             -             20            103           325           587          l,oho
Croundnuts                                        30           180           450            600           900          2,160
Total                                       90           312            782         1,241         1,6(1         4,2z6
Insecticides
Cotton lt 1/                                  60,480       178,605       403,200        601,200       702,000     1,945,485
Compeas lt 2                                      -         15,000         21,000        27,000        33,000         96,OOo
Total                                   60,480       193,605       424,200        628,200       735,000     2,041,485
Riaize ton 3/                                     -              1.2            9.0          30.0          45'            85.2
Battery Sets 4/
Cotton                                          5,520        78,085         36,800        55,050        63,000        178,415
Cowpeas                                            -          1,250         1,750          2,250         2,750          8,000
Total                                    5,520        19,295        38,550         57,300        65,750        186,415
B. Costs PllOO
Seeds 5/                                          13.5          46.8          117-3         186.2         280.7          6441.5      -              -           644.5
Ins ecticides:
fcr oDtton and grounonuts 6/                    99.8         319.4          699.9       2,036.5       1,212.8        3,368.4       70          2,357.9      1,010.5
maize 7/                                    -              0.4            3.0           9.9          10.9           24.2       70             16.9           7.3
Battery sets 8/                                   14.6          50.9          101.8         151.3          173.6         492.2        70           344.5         147.7
Total Cost                                 127.9         417.5          922.0       1,383.9       1,678.0        4,529.3       60          2,719.3      1,810.0
Total Cash Sale 9/                          32.0         104.4          230.5         346.0         419.5        1,132.1A
Total Credit Sale 10/                       95.9         313.1          691.5       1,037.9       1,258.5        3,39o.9
Incremental Credit Requirement              95.9         217.2         378.11         346-4          220.v       1,258.5       60            755.1        503.4
1/ Cat. II farmier 9 liters per ha, Cat. III 18 liters per ha (endosulphan).
2/ 12 liters per ha (probably endosulphan).
3/ 6 kg/ha DDT granules for Cat. III farmers.
}/ 1 set per ha sprayed.
5/ Average cost of N 150/ton inclusive service charge.
6/ @ N 1,650 per m ton.
7/ @ N 330 per m ton.
8/ @ N 2.64 per set.
I/ @ 25% of t d al cost. 
10/ @ 75% of total cost.
November 12, 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fertilizer Subsidies, Seasonal Cash Sales and Credit Requirements
WI 000
Forei-gn Fxchange         Local
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Total                       Cost         Cost
Fertilizer Subsidy                                      170.5          424.4           978.6        1,600.3        2,091.9        5,265.7        72          3,791.3       1,474.4
Incremental Cash Sales
Fertilizer                                             42.6            63.7          140.5          160.2          126.5          533.5        72            384.1         149.4
Seeds, insecticides and batteries                      32.0           72.4          126.1           115.5           73.5          j19.-        60            251.7         167.8
Sub total                                74.6          136.1           266.6          275.7          200.0          953.0        66            635.8         317.2
Incremental Credit Sales
Fertilizer                                            127.8          191.4          421.7           480.8          379.8        1,601.5        72          1,153.o         448.5
Seeds, insecticides and batteries                      95.9          217.2           378.4          346.5          220.6        1,258.5        60            755.1         503.4
Sub total                               223.7          408.6           800.1          827.2          600.4        2,860.0        66          1,908.1         951.9
Total Incremental Inputs                298.3          544.7        1,066.7         1,102.9          800.4        3,813.0        66          2,543.9       1,269.1
July 29, 1974
mx



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTU A AGRI CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
isarm stquipmenaT nequ±reirient6
N ' 000
Foreign Exchange         Local
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Total          %            Cost        Cost
A. Quantities
Sprayer kit l/                                4,000          5,000        11,000         13,000         14,000         47,000         -             -             -
Ox drawn equipment kit 2/                       200            800          2,000         3,000          4,000         10,000                       _             _
Tractor kit 3/                                 -                10             20             30             40           100         -             -
B. Costs
Sprayer kit                                      59.6           74.5          163.9          193.7          208.6         700.3       90             630.3          70.0
Ox drawn equipment kit                           33.0          132.0          330.0          495.o          660.0       1,650.0       75           1,237.5         412.5
Tractor kit                                     -               60.0          120.0          180.0          240.0          600.0      7r             450.0         150.0
Total                                  92.6          266.5         613.9          868.7        1,108.6        2,950.3       79           2,317.8         632.5
C. Farmer Down Payment
Ox drawn equipment 4/                             6.6           26.4           66.o           99.0          132.0          330.0
Tractor kit 5/                                  -               18.0           36.0           54.o           72.0          180.0
Total                                   6.6           44.4         102.0          153.0          204.0          510.0
D. Credit Requirement
Sprayer kit 6/                                   59.6           74.5          163.9          193.7          208.6          700.3
Ox drawn equipment kit                           26.4          105.6          264.0          396.o          528.0       1,320.0
Tractor kit                                     -               42.0           84.0          126.0          168.0          420.0
'otal                                  e6.0          221.1          511.9         715.7          90o.6        2,440.3
Principal Repayment to Credit Fund                            -               55.5          13. 5          362.4          60154
Net credit requirement             ~Wo221.1                                 T~l5322                        55.          1,353.9
Net credit requirement and                      92.6          266.5          558.4          b85.2          74b.2        2,348.9
farmer downpayment
1/ Includes ULV sprayer, 1 set of gloves, 1 pair of goggles - N 14.9 inclusive of service charLe - Year 6 onwJards 13,500 sprayers replaced each year.
2/ Plow/ridger, ox cart, N 1-65 inclusive of service charge.
3/ Includes 65 hp tractor, trailer, ridger, chisel plow, - N 6,000 inclusive of service charge.
:/ 20' downpayment (balance 3 year loan @ 10% i.e. loan N 132 - repayment N 53 per annum for 3 years).
5/ 30% downpayrrert  (balance 5 year loan @ l0% i.e. loan N 4,200 - repayment N 1,323 per annum fdr 4 years).
_/ 100% credit @ 10% over 2 years at N 8.6 per year.
July 29, 1974






ANNEX 8
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Credit
1.         Provision of inputs, and of technical services, is of little avail
unless farmers have the means for acquiring inputs. Thus farm credit plays
a critical role in the package of goods and services needed to make the
agriculture of a region more productive.
2.         Almost no commercial credit is available at present to farmers in
the project area, especially to the large majority who are small farmers.
Although small farmers apparently get some credit from local traders and
other private persons, it is unreliable, costly, and totally inadequate for
generating a more productive agriculture.  Commercial banks in the area are
not equipped to extend large numbers of small loans to farmers. The costs
of doing such business are prohibitative. Cooperative societies that have
extended credit to farmer members have failed more often than they have suc-
ceeded, partly because the inputs necessary to make enterprises productive
were not available, partly because no technical service or supervision ac-
companied the loan, and partly because of inadequate management of the co-
operatives themselves. In any case, sources of credit currently are total-
ly inadequate to serve the needs for an increasingly productive agricultural
economy.
Amounts of Credit Needed
3.         The credit system visualized for the project area would be limited
to providing farmers with specific inputs, namely fertilizers, insecticides,
seeds, sprayers, ox drawn equipment and a small amount of tractor equipment.
The estimated amounts of credit sales for each year of the 5-year project
period are:
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
- *000
Fertilizers                      127.8    319.2      740.9    1,221.7   1,601.5
Insecticides, seeds, and
battery sets                95.9    313.1     691.5    1,037.9   1,258.5
Sprayers, oxdrawn equipment
and tractor equipment       86.0    222.1     511.9       715.7     904.6
Total                309.7    854.4   1,944.3    2,975.3   3,764.6



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        To lend and collect these sums effectively and efficiently it
would be necessary and preferable to establish an organization that would
be a self-perpetuating institution capable of serving the credit needs of
farmers in the area for an indefinite period of time.
5.        Operating Procedures for FPMU revolving credit fund.  Several
operating procedures lend themselves to adoption by FPMU in so far as they
would assure good service to customers at reasonable cost. The following
procedures would be those which FPMU would employ initially and modify as
required in the course of the projects' life. At first, lending would be
limited to input items carried by project farm service center stores; such
lending would be in amounts specified on a simple farm management plan approved
by projects' Development Service AA. A simple form of loan application would
be employed which would serve as a farm management plan and promisory note
at the same time.
6.        The Credit Assistant would calculate the farmers credit require-
ments and after clearance on the borrowers credit worthiness from the village
head the borrower would be authorized to present his application to the vil-
lage service center. The items specified would be provided to the farmer and
the sale recorded by a bookkeeping machine. At market time the farm service
center storekeeper would make it as convenient as possible for the borrower
to repay his loan.
7.        Each borrower would have a laminated identity card containing his
picture, serial number (which would identify his village and hamlet) and sig-
nature or mark for convenient identification and record keeping.
8.        Seasonal loans and two-year sprayer loans involving a total out-
standing credit of less than N 100 to borrowers in goodstanding would be
approved by Credit Assistants at the village level; attention being paid to
ensure that the time between loan application and the borrower actually ob-
taining his input items would be minimal. Larger loans and loans for oxdrawn
equipment would need to be approved by the relevant Credit Officer. Loans
of over N 500 and all tractor loans would require the Credit Manager's spe-
cific approval.
9.        FPMU *¢ould lend up to a maximum of N/5000.to any one borrower.  Larger
borrowers would Le directed to NAB or commercial banks.
10.       Group Obligation.  The procedures would provide that each borrower's
loan application be approved by the hamlet or village head, or a farmers'
association approved by the village authorities. Such approval would certify
to the applicants credit worthiness. Once each year, FPMU would summarize
all accounts of the hamlet or village. If defaults were found, the headman
would be asked to assist in collections. FPMU and the CA would be empowered
to withhold lending to anyone in that village or hamlet until defaults are
removed unless due cause for default is presented and accepted by the FPMU
The group obligation would be a powerful influence to avoid default under
social structure pertaining to northern Nigeria.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
11.        Provision would be made to extend credit to groups, or to village
farmers associations, if farmers wished to pool their needs for inputs and
to assume joint liability for the credit extended.
Terms of Lending
12.        Lending terms to farmers would be established each year prior to
the upcoming season. Preferably these terms should be established well in
advance, and certainly no later than the preceeding November. The lending terms
would be determined by the FPMUJ management for approval by FPEC after consul-
tation with relevant Federal Authorities and the World Bank. Interest rates
would vary between 5-9-1/2% depending on the viability of the input package
provided to the borrowers. Most appropriately it should be applied as follows:
-    seasonal loans for farm inputs -- repayable within 12 months
at a flat service charge rate of 10%. No downpayments required;
-    sprayer loans repayable within two years in annual equal
installments at a flat service charge rate of 10% per annum.
No downpayment required;
-    oxdrawn equipment loans within three years in three annual
equal installments at a flat service charge rate of 10%
per annum. A 20% downpayment required;
-    tractors and tractor drawn equipment within four years in
four annual equal installments at a flat service charge
rate of 10% per annum. A 30% downpayment required.
13.        The above terms may differ at the time of implementation depending
on the economic situation prevailing at the time. However, on present forecasts
and estimates, see farm budgets at Annex 1, the proposed crop improvements
and input packages could easily carry the terms proposed in para 12. It is
strongly recommended, for ease of administration and appreciation by the
borrowers, that a flat service rate made up of interest and services is applied
to all loans.
14.        During the implementation of the project, management and PMEU would
make a thorough study of various lending systems, such as cooperatives etc.,
that exist in the project area, with a view to making firm recommendations for
the conversion, in the fourth or fifth year of the project, of the revolving
credit fund into a form that can continue lending to the farmers after the
project development period is completed. It is therefore of great importance
that from the start of the project the revolving credit fund is operated on a
practical and commercial basis, and for this reason an illustrative cash flow
for the fund is shown at Table 1 of this Annex.






NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
Funtua Agricultural Development Project
Revolving Credit Fund
Illustrative Cash Flow for Sub-loans N'000
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9        Year 10
Disbursement
Seasonal loans to farmers                         224           633        1,433        2,260         2,860        2,860        2,860         2,860        2,860         2,860
Oxdrawn equipment loans                             26          106          264           396          528          -             -            -             -            -
Tractor and equipment loans                        -             42           84           126          168          -             -            -             -            -
Sprayers                                            60           74          164           194          209          201           201          201           201          201
Total Disbursements                     310          855        1,945        2,976         3,765        3,061         3,061        3,061         3,061        3,061
Receipts
Funds from NCS
(a)  for seasonal loans                         224          409           800          827          600           -            -             -            -             -
(b)  for medium term loans                       86          221           456          532           542
Sub total                               310          630        1,256        1,359         1,142          -             -            -             -            -
Repayments by Farmers
(a)  seasonal loans:
repayment by due date 1/                   -            202           570        1,290        2,034         2,574        2,574         2,574        2,574        2,574
collection on defaults 2/                  -            -              11           32           72           113          143           143          143           143
collect on bad debts 3/                    -            -             -              6           16            36           56            72           72            72
service charge 4/                          -             20            58          133          212           272          277           279          279           279
(b)  medium term loans 5/
oxdrawn equipment 6/                       -              9            48          146          286           449          366           221           20             5
tractor equipment 6/                       -            -              12           37           74           124          116            93           55             5
sprayer kits 6/                            -             31            71          129          201           229          230           227          226           226
Sub total                               _            262          770         1,773        2,895        3,797         3,762        3,609         3,369        3,304
Total Receipts                          310          892        2,026         3,132        4,037        3,797         3,762         3,609        3,369        3,304
Balance                                 -             37            81          156          272           736          701           548          308           243
1/ Assumes 90% repayment within 12 months of loan date.
2/ Assumes that half of defaults would be collected within 12 months after due date.
3/ Assumes half of bad debts are collected in first year of bad debt account.  The remainder written off.                                                                      .3
4! Assumes a flat service charge of 10%.                                                                                                                                       , 2
5/ Interest and principal on annuity basis (Annex 7, Table 5 for suggested rates).                                                                                             S X
6/ 95% on due date; 2½1% collected in following year; remainder 2b% written off.                                                                                                H X
August 7, 1974






ANNEX 9
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation
1.         Rural development projects of the size and scope of the Funtua
project can have far reaching effects on the people in the project area and on
the economy of the State and the nation. The effects cannot be foreseen with
precision. Thus, an ongoing and thorough evaluation must be initiated and
pursued throughout the life of the project:
(a) to guide project management;
(b) to help establishment of project goals and scheduling of
project activities;
(c) to measure effectiveness and efficiency of project activities,
(d) to inform State and national governments and others of changes
stemming from project activities; and
(e) to enhance knowledge of the rural development process for
future development planning; and
(f) to permit the continuous reappraisal of project goals and
assumptions underlying project design, particularly those
aspects affecting farm credit and input supply, and to allow
for progressive modification of project objectives and structures.
2.         Evaluation must include such standard economic criteria as changes
in gross and net incomes of participants, changes in volume and value of
production and measures of efficiency in use of project resources. It must
include also such direct and indirect benefits as changes in efficiency and
effectiveness of the marketing system, changes in employment, changes in the
volume and type of business in the region, changes in tax revenues and ex-
penditures, and changes in other economic and social indicators that would
show direct and indirect results of project activities. Equally important
may be changes in patterns of consumption, in participation in education, in
health, and in other measures of well being of people in the project area.
3.         Precise types of measures to be made and specific methods of data
collection and analyses must be developed by the evaluation staff on site.
Some of the data needed would be generated by project records. Other data
must be collected by surveys and from secondary sources outside the project



ANNEX 9
Page 2
area. The proposed investment of substantial expertise and manpower in
developing and conducting surveys and analyses designed to measure meaningfully
the parameters of rural development, as partially indicated in paragraph 2,
should generate considerable benefits, both for future planning in Nigeria
and for the general knowledge of the rural development process.
4.         If the broader impact of the project is to be assessed, there is no
alternative to undertaking baseline surveys before the effects of the project
begin to manifest themselves, and to continue the assessment of changes brought
about by project actions during and after the implementation period. No organ-
ization or project can properly evaluate itself; and therefore evaluation
staff must be independent of project management in technical direction and
analysis methods; although of course they should work closely with project
staff for administrative purposes.
5.         In order to accomplish a meaningful evaluation, the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR) would establish a
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) at Kaduna. PEEU would have
a dual function: (a) using existing Federal staff, suitably strengthened,
it would undertake a continuing technical and financial review of project
actions so as to satisfy FMANR that the project accomplishes its general ob-
jectives; (b) by establishing a special evaluation section and employing
specialist consultants it would undertake an economic and social evaluation
as outlined in paras 1-3.
6.         The evaluation section of PMEU would be directed by a Head who
would be responsible for technical and budget control of the unit. Certain
key staff would be employed by the unit for developing an evaluation program
and for the analysis of the data from Funtua project and from other projects
established in northern Nigeria. Each project evaluated would have its own
field enumeration teams that would remain administratively responsible to
the respective projects.
7.         The Monitoring Unit would be funded from ongoing FMANR budgetary
allocations and initially would be hardly more than a one man unit. The
evaluation section would be funded by FMG from its own resources and a loan
from the World Bank. A special bank account would be maintained for the
evaluation section. The field enumeration units would be funded by the State
Government from its own resources and from a Bank loan.
8.         The Federal Government has indicated that it would contract the
staffing of the evaluation section of PMEU to consultants. The consultants
would probably be a Nigerian university, in all likelihood the favorably
placed Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria. The consultants would be free to
draw upon the services of experienced individuals or possibly an outside
university to fill the posts provided for. The job descriptions and qualifi-
cations of the key personnel are shown at Annex 6, Schedule 1.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.         Initially the PMEU would monitor and evaluate the Funtua, Gusua
and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects, but as time progresses the
evaluation section would be expanded to take in other projects that might
be developed, particularly as the State Governments would in every case be
responsible for administering the respective field enumeration units.
10.        It is estimated that the following personnel would be required to
staff the evaluation section of PMEU and the field enumeration unit:
(a)  part-time services of a senior faculty member of the
Department of Agricultural Economics of the University of
Ahmadu Bello for overall consultation on evaluation criteria,
requirements for data, techniques of data collection, and
methods of analyses;
(b)  three senior research staff, one of whom would be designated
as Head Evaluation Section of PMEU and be responsible
for the entire evaluation function. The disciplines of
these staff would ideally be an Agriculture Economist as
Head, a statistician and a social economist. They would
design and carry out the evaluation process, design record
keeping and data collection systems, supervise the field
data collection and other activities of the enumeration staff
located in each project area, prepare reports as required,
and consult as necessary with project managers and government
and university staff and officials;
(c)  two junior research staff to support the senior analysts.
One of these should be an experienced statistician familiar
with sample design and data processing. One should be a
broadly-trained social scientist familiar with social science
research methods;
(d)  secretary, one stenographer, two clerk-typists, and three
drivers to be located at headquarters at the University; and
(e)  for each project field enumerator unit, of which there would
be three for the Funtua project:
1 economist
4 supervisors
20 enumerators (both men and women).
11.        Each unit could be responsible for approximately 600 samples, the
actual number of samples depending upon the degree of intensity of sampling
laid down by PIEU. One senior evaluation officer based at project headquarters
would be responsible for the project evaluation unit which would comprise
himself, his support staff and the 3 field enumerator units.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
12.       PMEU would prepare a summary analysis report at least once each year
for each project, and such other special reports as needed and when available
information may suggest. The summary report would be reviewed with the Project
Manager and subsequently made available to the Federal Coordinating Committee.
A final summary appraisal would be prepared for each project at the end of
its first five years of operation.
13.       The project evaluation activities described in this annex would be
in addition to that which would be undertaken by each Project Manager as a
matter of routine to provide himself with performance and cost effectiveness
information necessary for good management and the achievement of project goals.
Evaluation Costs Summary (over 5 years)
N'000
1.   PMEU Evaluation Section /1
Capital Cost                                   149.0
Operating Cost                                 701.0
2.   Funtua Field Evaluation Unit /1
Capital Cost                                   124.9
Operating Cost                                 528.0
3.   Gombe and Gusau Field Evaluation Unit /2
Capital Cost                                   190.2
Operating Cost                                 789.0
Total Cost                                   2,491.1
US$ million                                      3.8
/1   Detailed cost table Annex 9, Table 1.
/2   Gombe and Gusau cost assumed to 4/3 cost of Funtua.



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA iGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation Unit Costs    N'OOO
A. Project Monitoring and                                                                                                                                      TOTAL       FOREIGN EXCHANGE  LOCAL          Year 6
Evaluation Unit                 units       unit cost       number of units          Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5                       %T    Cost        Cost
Evaluation Section
Senior  Staff houses                  no.           23.0                 3          (3 )  69.0                        -            -             -          69.0          30      20.7       48.3          -
Intermediate Staff houses             no             18.0                2          (2)  36.0           -             -            -             -          36.0          30      10.8       25.2          -
office and garage                     no              8.o                1          (1)   8.0           -             -            -             -            8.0         30       2.4        5.6          -
office furniture                      no              2.0                1          (1)    2.0          -             -             -            -            2.0         40       0.8         1.2         -
office equipment                      no             4.0                 1          (1)   4.0           -             -            -             -            4.0         60       2.4         1.0         -
motor cars                            no              4.0                6          (3)  12.0            -            -           12.0           -           24.0         60      114.4        9.6         -
pick up vehicle                       no              3.0                2          (1)   3.0            -            -             3.0          -            6.o         60       3.6         2.4         -
s  134-        -- -                                                 0            37       5.1        93.9
Operating costs
Research Director                 man years          27.0                5           (1)  27.0  (1)   27.0  (1)   27.0  (1)    27.0  (1)  27.0              135.0        100      135.0         -          27.0
Research Economists                man years         23.0               10           (2)  46.0  (2)   46.0  (2)   46.o  (2)    46.o  (2)  46.0              230.0        100       230.0        -           46.o
professionals                      man years          5.0               10           (2)  10.0  (2)   10.0  (2)   10.0  (2)    10.0  (2)  10.0               50.0          -         -         40.0         10.0
stenographer-secretary            man years           4.0                5           (1)   4.0  (1)    4.0  (1)    4.0  (1)          4.0  (1)   4.0          20.0         -          -        20.0          4.0
clerk typists                     mlan years          1.0               10          (2)   2.0  (2)    2.0  (2)    2.0  (2)           2.0  (2)   2.0          10.0         -          -        10.0           2.0
office sypplies                                                                            2.0           2.0          2.0            2.0         2.0         10.0         50         5.0       5.0           2.0
computer time                                                                             42.0         42.0          42.0          42.0         42.0        210.0         50      105.0    105.0           42.0
vehicle operating               vehicle years         1.8               20           (4)   7.2           7.2          7.2            7.2         7.2         36.0         44       15.8       20.2           7.2
subtotal                                                                         1i40.2       1E0F          1              110.2        1 740.2                                8     210*e        U14
Total Evaluation Section                                                                 274.2        140.2         140.2          155.2       140.2        850.0          64      545-9    304.1          140.2
B.  Field Enumerator Units
Senior Staff houses                   no             23.0                1                23.0           -            -             -            -           23.0         30         6.9      16.1          -
Intermediate Staff houses             no             18.0                3                54.0           -            -             -            -           54.0         30        lo.2      37.8          -
office space                                                                               6.5           -            -             -            -            6.5         30         2.0       4.5          -
office furniture and equipment                                                             3.0           -            -             -            -            3.0         60         1.8       1.2          -
pick up vehicles                      no              3.0                8           (4)  12.0           -            -      (4)   12.0           -          24.o          60       14.4       9.6          -
motor cycles                          no               .4               36          (12)   4.8           -      (12)  4.8           _      (12)  4.8         14.4          60        8.6       5.8          -
subtotal                                                                         103.3           -                          12.0          4.        1249         4-0       T99        7.0           -
Operating costs
Senior Evaluation Officer          man years         23.0                5           (1)  23.0    (1) 23.0    (1) 23.0    (1)  23.0    (1) 23.0             115.0         100      115.0       -            23.0
Professionals                      man years          5.0               15           (3)  15.0    (3) 15.0    (3) 15.0    (3)  15.0   (3) 15.0               75.0          -         -        75.0          15.0
Research tssistants                man years          1.3               60          (12)  15.6   (12) 15.6   (12) 15.6   (12)  15.6  (12) 15.6               78.0          -         -        78.0          15.6
Enumerators                       man years           o.6              300         (60)  36.0   (60) 36.0   (60) 36.0   (60)  36.0  (60) 36.0               180.0          -         -       180.0          36.0
clerks                            man years           1.0               20           (4)   4.0    (4)  4.0    (4)  4.0    (4)   4.0   (4)  4.0               20.0          -         -        20.0           4.0
vehicle operating               vehicle years         1.8               20           (4)   7.2    (4)  7.2    (4)  7.2    (4)   7.2   (4)  7.2               36.0          44       15.8      20.2           7.2
motor cycle operating              m/c   years        0.2               60          (12)   2.4   (12)  2.4   (12)  2.4   (12)   2.4  (12)  2.4               12.0          44        5.3       o.7           2.4
rent allowances                                                                            2.4           2.4          2.4            2.4          2.14       12.0          -         .-        12.0          2.4
subtotal                                                                         105.6        101.             1_          105.         1 W          2             26      132.1    391.9          105. o       J)
total field enumerator units                                                             208.9        105.o         110.4          117.6       110.4        652.9          28      186.0   1466.9         105.6         i
TOTAL COST OF ENUMERATION                                                                483.1         245.8        250.6          272.8        250.6      1502.9          49      731.9    771.0          245.8      a
August 7, 1974






ANNE£X L0,
T.bl. I
NIGIIIIA
NaRTH 07WRAL 57sTg
FU'1UA AGT0IGULU2R.A  DEI   El7T PR0OECT
a.u_3y  Lr Frott Coats
pore goOcb0e          Icocl            % 1/
Year 1         Tear 2          T- 3            Yee  4          Tear- S          Total          i     _                ost St     Distrib,tion
Project *droansttation
Veholc s and eqaipeent                                      43.1           33.5             1.6            14.0             1.6            93.8        61          56.8         37.0
Ho,-se-, billdiogs and L-roiehings                         266.o           282.0           -               -               -              528.0        30         160.4        367.b
3loorvee and                                               U8osn  15u.9    166.4          176.9           176.9           161.9           801.0         2S        223.0        570.0
eiole operting                                               4.5             6.3            6.3             6.3             6.3            29.7        44          13.0         16.7
Head Offi-b erpenses (GS)                                   62.o            92.8          139.6           173.1           176.5           644.6         21        13c.1        850.5
Sub total                                         475.1           581.0           324.4           370.3           346.3        2,097.1         28         589.3     1,507.8           6
Vehicles nd elutp  snt                                     203.8           86.1            65.3            59.4            44.2           458.8         71        324.4        134.4
Houses, buildings and frnlgd iegs 2h                       514.0          660.0           801.0            57.0            -            2,112.8         8         187.3      1,524.7
Salaries and alloancee                                     183.6          322.3           440.2           483.9           393.8         1 823.9         22        .}5.       1,425.9
Vehicle o-rating                                            24.8            42.1           45.8            48.1            48.1           208.9         46         91.9        117.0
Tr_ctor hire  r-serce (GS)                                  20.3           16.2            12.2             8.1            -               56.8        44          25.0         31.S
Farm tr-isih  centers oprating  (GS)                         8.0            16.0           16.0            16.0            16.0            72.0         -           _           72.0
Seed  _ ltipl-catino  fsrra  (GS)                           73.0            73.0           73.0            73.0            73.0           305.0        50         182.5        112.5
Sub total                                       1,127.5         1,185.7         1,453.5           745.5           575.2         5,n97.4        31       1,oO9.1      3,488.3         13
-ar Credit Services
Vehicles and  lolip-oet                                    117.5            73.0          1U7.6             66.5           55.6           470.2         65         308.0       164.2
Scaon cd f_rishiogs                                       274.0          179.0           270.0            -               -              730           20        145.8        577.?
lasl a    and allowanes                                    121.7           184.7          299.4           299.4           299.4         1,32.6          10        115.      7,0 29.
Fehicle opeoct-ng                                           15.3           19.3            30.7            30.7            30.7           126.7        44          45.7         71.0
-redit op-rati-n,  (GS)                                      0.5             2.0            3.5             S.0             8.0            19.0        60          11.4          7.5
Sub total                                         529.0           458.0           761.2           401.6           393.7         2.543.5        25         633.9      1,909.6          7
f-ar-et Ser-ace-
Vehicles and etaip.ent                                      52.5           42.0            86.0            22.5             2.0           205.0         76        154.8         0.2
Ase,f-r-isbg., and gunney ,akts depot.                 178.0           203.0           94.o            -               -              420.0         29        223.0        302.0
i.alieg  andd                               potnco88.5                     121.0          156.1           156.1           133.1           654.8         14          92.0      532.5
Vehicle apestcing                                           12.1            13.1           13.1            13.1            13.1            64.5        44          28.4         36.1
Sub tatal                                         281.1           379.1           349.2           191.7           148.2        1,349.3         30         398.2        951.1          4
EngineerirgSorvboee
Ca 3Ocerleadia
Vellolee and ankehb p eq-ape.ent                     109.0            13.9             13.9           30.5             0.7           165.0        73         123.4         44.6
Ho.ses and fus-lehiogs                               349.0            36.0            -               -               -              385.0        30         115.5        269.5
Salartes and alloanees                               178.3           188.3           188.3           169.5           101.3           825.7        45         370.0        455.7
Vehicle operaotin                                     13.5            18.3            18.3            18.3            18.3            8-.7        64          38.2        46.5
Warbkeop operating                                     24.8           46.7            44.7            44.7            44.7           203.6        49          9S.4        124.2
-  lb tonal                                           764.6          301.2           265.2           263.0          1605.0        :,o69.0         44         745.5        922.5          4
(b) load Con-sructioq
Plant ae.d eqolipoet                                  236.9          134.3            16.6             1.0             1.0           389.6         89        34o.b         42.8
S0Irating pleat and eqoipment                         83.1           153.2           153.2           1153.           153.2           695.9        38         264.0        431.9
Co.etr-otion not.riali, labor                         76.0            73.0            73.0            73.0           108.0           403.0        54         218.8        184.2
lard eanpencat.on (15)                                18.0            18.0            18.0            18.0            18.0            90.0        .           - _90.0
Rcod maintenanoe (ba)                                 121.0           38.3            38.3            50.3            38.3           286.2         53        151.         135.1
Sab ltat                                           535.0           416.8          298.9           295.5           318.5         1,864.7        53         980.7        884.0          5
(c)  3-al and les  Co-nervation
Plant ard eqVip  ent                                  278.2           -               -               29.4            .              307.6        86         265.2         42.4
Operating plant and  qubip.ent                        14.8           101.8           184.0           104.0           104.8          434-0         42         180.7        253.3
Construction material and laber                        34.0           90.0            90.0            90.0            90.0           394.0        48         108.1        205.9
Lard ompensatien (IS)                                   2.0            8.0             8.0             8.0             8.0            34.0         -          -            34.0
Sob tanai                                         329.0           202.8           202.8           232.2           202.8        1,169.6         54         o34.0        535.o           3
Votol Vnghseeelnb S-rvices                       1,538.6           920.8           796.7          760.9           686.3         4.703.3         50      2,361.2      2,342.1        (12)
Pam Iwnt6
-erri-irer *ub-idy (frees)                                 170.5          424.4           978.6         1,600.3         2, 09.9         5,265.7         72      3,791.3      1,474.4          14
Is,r--ert.1 fsrtili-e  lepers                              170.4           235.1          562.2           641.0           306.3         2,135.0         72      1,537.2        597.8           6
I7rcr-nt.1  fds, tre         d.d b.tti                     127.9           289.6          5064.5          461.9           294.1         1,678.0         60      1,006,8        67.12           4
Oneen tenlal fare equipnent                                 92.6           266.5          558.4           685.2           746.2         2,348.9         79      1,855,6        493.3           6
Snb t.t.l                                         561.4         1,235.6         2,603.7         3,388.4        3,638.5        11,427.6         72       8,190.9      3,236.7          30
feslo1tin Unit                                              483.1           245.8           250.6          272.8           250.6         1.302.9         49         731.9       771.0           4
oteal                                           4,995.8         5,016.0         6,509,5         6,161.0         6,028.8        28,721.1        51      14,514.5    14,206.6           76
?hy.i.al Ceetigescies                                       249.8           250.8           325.5          308.1           301.9         1,436.1         31        732.4        703.7           4
Peice Ctenlneneles                                           901.0        1,322.0         1,980.0         1,670.0         1,836.0         7,709.0         51      3,931.6      3,777.4          20
Tetl Peeject Ceat.                             6,146.6         6,5808.8        8,815.0         8,139.1         8,176.7        37,866.2         51     19,178.5    18,687.7         l00
Perce.tage  lstribetimn                                       16              17              23             22              22             100                       51          49
U0S                                                        9,342.8        10,015.0       13,398.8        12,371.4        12,428.6        57,556.6                29,151.3    28,405.3
(GS) indica-st general .ervice coats and are extracted ftes Table 6.
1/ Tetal di-tTibution - adiin.t-tieve eveerhead  67%, ditertenser f    erveiieg 25%. read-, sea         nd seil e--servatto- 14%, fare ints 22%, -e1-atie  4%,
,od renelngencie 30%.
2/ I-nludee villag3e .sr-ia  -e.tera, faE  tr-lsing  e.te-s asd sed -ulipli.ntin.
31 I-noldes evalnaties  Oetie  of P5EU at Kaden. to -erei-e Fsetaa, Gabs. and Gu..u *nd field escaratien elit fos Funtu (Fse A.e.. 9, Table 1).
4/ Physicel canelnseecies at 5% pee reas,.
51 O  per - eC-tal P-ej-ets F aeeaeda ef lu-ch 29. 1974. Local ests at 7% eafpaesded. M..hiasey, eq.ip-t .nd civil  -Krk. v-r.abla  -eef8eg...y.
No price  -nticg.ncsa f er f- rt-ilic.
July 19, 1974



ANNEX 10
T.ble 2
MORMI  ZrATIRAL lOATE
1UJNTA AIOR0ULTURAL. IEVELOPKENI PROJECT
Vghi,loJ.*e Plant wed jleeRat - Caeitw1 Coet
unit      N.e. of                                                                                                         F-igj Exhnge           Local
Unit      coot     Unite           Yer I             Yeer 2           Ye-  3            Thr eYar4    ..- S                 t                     Coot      Coot
1176661 drive deluxo              ~~~~      ~~~~~No.  6.o  2         I )    6.o                               -         I1)       6.0            -12.0    60                         7.2         4.8
otor-a  large                                 No.       1.0         4            2      8.0             -                -           2)      8.0             -16.0    60                        -.
ooryee75  cNo.:                                  0.4        10           4 1))    1.6                        4   )   1.6            -                    1.6        4.6    700            3.1         1.1
Sal total                                                                   15.6            -1.6                                 3..0               1.0       32.1    02            20.2         12.6
I  keIr1   vrhcsN.                                    .                       )      8.0     (  )     8.0                               -.lu0                                  ala                       cL
Meo-ca  large                                 N..       4.0         2           Il)     1.0                                          I  C)   4.0             -             .0    10o             1.           .
Piaoup t-lko,                                 N0.       3.3        16         C6)    19.8       (2)       6.6            -             )    19.8       2)      alb       52.      II           31.7         2 11
P.reooosol crirNo.                                      4.1         L           0 1     4 .4      1)      1.4                        1)      4.1       1 9     1.        17.o    ol             l0.t         .1:
CraLa     t-e                             N.:       6.0         8         C2)    12.0    C2)    12.0                 -          C2)    12.0    C2)    12.0           48.0   .tO             21.El       19.2
Ce1t-rycle-                                   iSo.      0.14      205         (20)      8.8    (29)    11.6    (53)    21.2    (48)    19.2    (53)    21.2              82.0    71             77          21.,
Seed for  -sahinery                          Detallo A-een  3                         50.0              21.0             --                                              71.0    75            533         17.7
Sub total                                                                  107.0             63.6              21.2              59.L              11.2      271.1~    al          !1..,         99.2
credIt S-ri-e
a                                             Me1d.c   d  aeN.  6.0  2        CI)       4.0                                          I    )  6.0                          8 .0    10-                         .2
motorca  large                                lIe.      4.0         2         C 1)      4.0o                                         1)      4.o            8- 0 .0 aX                            .0         3.2
Pickup tr-ke                                  No.       3.3        10         C5)    16.5                                           le- C  )    10.5         .           33.0    oo            19.8        13.2
otcYales                                   N..       0.1       338         (30)    12.0    (60)   -16.0   (1.14)    15.6    (40 )    16.0   (111           L5.6      135.2    70             6A,        LI.o
S.b total                                                                  36.5               16.0             45.6              40.51             LS.6      181.2    17           121.-        60.2
I wheel dries rellaje           No.       1~~    ~ ~       ~ ~~~ ~~.0  2  I )  1.0        -                -          C1)      1.0                          8.0    sO             1.1,         3.2
Pickup tr-ko                                  No.       3.3        10         C5)    16.5              -                              5)    16.5             -33.0    60                       19.1         13.2
Iotoroycloo                        No.~~~~~~~~~~~Mb  0.1  20        5)      2.0     C  )      2.0     (5)       2.0     C  )      2.0     C  )      2.0       10.0    70             7.1C         3.0
Sub Wtota                                                                   22.5               2.0               2.0             22.5               2.0       51.0   (02            31.o         19.1
1o(~~~e1dri1-eI6lSrle delano  No.   6.0         2         C 1~~~~~~~~~~~)  60-                                 (17       6.0o                        12.0    61              .2          1,8
41. aarl anew chiole                          Ve.       1.0         3         (2)       8.0             -                -          (1)      1.0             -17.1.   60                         7.2         1.6
Pickup traek.                                 No.       3.3        16         C6)    19.8         4 )    13.2                        6)    19.8              -52.0    10                       31.7         21.1
Read cent-utioo plant                         Det.il. Arce-6  Tkble  3                236.9            136.3              16.1               1.0               1.0      389.6    89           311.0         12.8
`orkshop plant and eqaiporrt                 Det.ils Amaxl. Table .3                  75.0               0.7              13.9               0.7               0.7       91.2    85,           77.3        13.9
Water ad neil  - -nere.e  pl.et               Netwil.  . 0050, Tall. 1                278.2            -                                    2y0.1                       31,7.1    8o          211.0 2      12.1
Sal ~t al                                                                  626.1             1),8.2             30.3            610.)               1.7      861.2    81           735.1        129.8
Total Vehicles and Plant                                                   805.7             229.8            100.7             197.3              95.1   1,428,a   70           1,107.4        321.2
Suahoewot (.nall)
P200 telopbene                    ~~~~     ~~~~        ~         ~~S.t  6.0  1  -      1)     6.2                      -                -                      6.0    60             3.0         1.1
Radio telephcoec                              Ic.       1.2        20         (10)    12.0    (10)    12.0               ---26.0    60                                                         16.1          9.6
Sucos                                        NIo.       0.3        10         (5)       1.5     C 5)      1.5            -                                                3.0    60             1.8          1.2
Typewriter, elaar)14.0                                                                                   114.0                                              2-05.0    00                       16.8         11.?
Ccpyiog macli-e etc-
Sub totu1                                                                   27.5              33.5            -                                                1.2    60            3-c          26.1
Vicoal nid,                                   Set       0.5         5         (2)       1.0    ( 3)       1.5                                                             2.5    00              1.5         1.0
Typeommo.r.                                   go.       0.1        82         (20)      8.0    (20)       8.0    (12)    16.8              -                             32.8    60            19.7         13.1
Coleolator- .-IaI                             No.       0.15       87         (25)      3.8    (20)       3.0    (12)      6.3             -                             13.1    60              7.9         5.2
Safs                                          N..       0.3        82         (20)      6.0    (20)       6.0    (62)    12.6                                            2h 0.6    00           2I..0        9.8
Noa-l eqipecont for se-noes uet.r.            Sot       0.0        77         (15)      3.0    (20)       1.5    (42)       8.4                                          15.1    60              9.3         6.1
Aerial1 photography I/                                                                 75.0 o                                                                            75.0   100             75.0         -
Sub  .tot1                                                                  96.8              22.5             661 a                                         163.1    78            128.2        35.02
-rdit derie-
Occo-etig  ...oiiee                           Sot       8.2        10         C5)    40.0       C 1)      8.0    ( 2)    16.0       (  )    16.0             -80.0    10                        48.0        32.0
Seri-e Center cah registar            ~                 2.0        77         (15)    30.0    (20)    60.0    (42)    81.                  -                      2      5100                    dO.4       61.1
detilfic-ti-  Card (eqaipoect & .aterials.'                                            11.0               9.0             12.0             -1.0        105012.:0    80                          l.          10.6
Sal total                                                                   81.0              57.0            110.0              20.U               ±a.a    ?0ena      an    ~      iC2.        111.0
Market Se-i-e
... esere   I..le  2/               V..       1.0       aI           (30)    30.0    (10)    10.0    (Mo)    84.0                 -                 -          1516.-0    80         123.2        30.8
TOTAL. 21M11L FAftRiENDT                                                   221.3             116.0             228.1             16.0             -           10.1    70            600.1       181.0
T2101 IOICIES, PLANr AID
E,IOPOMENT                                                             1,041.0             382.8             340.a            223.3             .kU>.d   2, 093.1              1,577.1        515.6
1/ 1r30,00O Ceale ,oif poje-t ara   In 7,500) in .elor, I set  slor print., 2 sets of had- arM white prints, 1 wet  f1 o.notrolled ne-ios at I 10 Per kh2
N--eb-r 7, 1073



0        + 0C0 VNO >0~ t                                                                                          00                                0'    -  l2o     e:     |   o    <  9 1-A  u,
p00             0 3 3        :FnDar     O     6                                                         ~r 1                               ]      |     C          
=0                    o   o eg a o       a    a °'-               00    a         aro                    IC  ao                                                  OC         0
>t 3 n ag. o  _   q q              P.                                                                0
.0>       .g z0          0S.                                                        000                   0>                               010                     0-9@
0      ~        3,0    
-F 00F90-                                                      c0         _        _ )  X 0                                           00      0                   00      00     0                _          0 _
O,;   8  r |o   o    o o  oo    o                      O . .         .    o o0o0                   o oC o oo oo    o                    CoOO.o   o  o                           a
00                                                           CO S00 300 r      _00o _                                                                          0                          t 1<
r,~    tloow                                        w8c                                                                         3o°c°~c                O        o      .o   nnG                                  mL 
oC       F9 o 4                                                                                                                                                            0  WC|{
X ffi r z o oa                           o-    o-'        o0           0o0    c             oo.o'   o-    ,            'a0'0      a        0           0       0'  '00
c~~~~~~                                                     0 g                                                            o                                                  14
o.~~~~~~~~~ 0c                                                                        000          0-    w'40-0                     00     8       00 -0- -  s. rs
tl ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      .0       a.        .                                   o                    0      0-      0 0                0 0.0 0
0~~~ 0                                 o           ~             0'          o                   00            C                           I     |r||II.    I        I I1
go  o0                            a.00                                                           0          o             0    0  
_          00 0O'C                                             '00           0             0oSo  '00C +   o\o o t  o  5    W     C F             o
0}          00o               0       0               0        00           0             0)     00    DO O OnnOrzO° ° OOOOO'
O -          O'OO 'D        ';r                00;-0  0-         O          -          0C C.       o . C. '         .-O   0 O'C-     O           0~



NIGERIA
NORTH CENrRAL STATE
F'UErUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
Staff Salaries and tllowances
Unit    No. of                                                                                                                 Zoreign Exchange       Local
unit         Cost      Jolts        Year I            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5         Total        9Cosot                  Cos t
Project Aaministration
Project Mmnager                         Ran years   27.0           4       1)    27.0       (1)    27.0        C1)    27.0        C1)    27.0               -108.0    100                        106.0        -
Project Manager                         Man years   12.0           1             -                                                                    1)    12.0          12.0      -              -         12.0
Chief Administration Officer            Man years   10.4           5      (1)    10.4         1)    10.4         1 )    10.5       1)    10.4         1)    10.5          52.0      -              -         52.0
,Chief Accountant                       Man years   23.0           5      (1)    23.0        (1)    23.0       C1)    23.0        C1)    23.0        CI)    23.0          115.0    100           115.0        -
Principal A~countant                    Ran years    8.0           9      C1)      8.0      (2)    16.0        (2)    16.0        C2)    16.0o         2)    i6.o         72.0                     -         72.0
A:countants                             Man years    5.5         18      C2)    11.0          4 )    22.0        4 )    22.0       4 )    22.0        4 )    22.0         99.0      -              -         99.0
Executive Officers                      Man years    5.0          23      C3)    15.0       (5)    25.0        (5)    25.0        (5)    25.0        C5)    25.0         115.0      -              -        115.0
Confidential Secretary                  Man years    3.0          10      C2)      6.0o       2)      6.0o       2)      6.0      (2)      6.0o       2)      6.0         30.0      -              -         30.0
Clerical Officer/stenographers          Man years    1.0         455        5)     5.0      (10)    10.0       (10)    10.0       (10)    10.0      (10)    10.0          55.0       -             -         45.0
Clerical Assistants                     Man years    0.7         180      (15)    10.5      (30)    21.0       (55)    31.5       (55)    31.5       (55)    31.5        126.0      -              ..       126.0
Messesgears and casoal labor            Man years    0.3          90      (10)     3.0      (20)      6.0      (20)      6.0      (20)     6.0       (20)     6 .0         27.0      -             -         27.0
Sob total                                                             118.9              166.4              176.9             176.9              161.Q         801.0      28          223.0      578.0
Technical Services
Chief Technical Officer                 Man years   23.0           4      ( 1)    23.0       (1)    23.0         I )    23.0      (1)    23.0               -92.0,  100                           92.0        -
Technical Officers                      T4an years   17.0         18      ( 3)    51.0       C5)    85.0       C5)    85.0        C 5     68.0       C1)    17.0         306.0    100            306.0        -
'Agricultural Officers                   Man years    5.0         26       C 1)     5.0        4 5)    20.0     C7)    35.0        C7)    35.0        (7)    35.0         130.0       -             -        130.0
Agricultural Supervisors,               Man years    5.0         54      (10)    50.0       (11)    55.0       (11)    55.0      (11)    55.0       (7)    28.0          200.0      --                     .200.0
Agricultiral Assistants                 Mian years    1.3        363     (22)    28.6       (51i)    66.3      (85)   109.2    (103)   133.9    (103)   133.9            571.9       --                     471.9
Agricultural Instructors                Man years    0.6    1,050         (6o)    36.0    (150)    85.0    (250)   155.0    (300)   180.0    (300)   180.0               624.o~                    -        624.0
Sob total                                                             183.6              322.3             550.2              483.9              393.9       1,823.9      22          398.0   1,475.9
Credit Services
,Credit Manager                          Man years   23.0          5      (1)    23.0        (1)    23.0        (1)    23.0       (1)    23.0        (1)    23.0          115.0    100           115.0         -
Senior Professionals                    Man years    8.0          10      (2)    16.0       (2)    16.0        (2)    16.0        (2)    16.0        (2)    16.0          80.0       -             -         80.0
Credit Supervisors/Accountants          Man years    5.5         56       (7)    38.5       (9)    59.5        (10)    55.0       (10)    55.0       (1o)    55.0        253.0       -             -        253.0
Credit Assistant Grade                  Man years    1.3         582      (35)    55.2      (75)    96.2    (158)   205.5    (158)   205.5          (158)   205.5         756.6      -             -        756.6
Sub total                                                             121.7              185.7-             299.5              299.5             299.5~    1,205.o        10          115.0   1,o69.6
Marketing Services
,Chief Marketing Officer                 Man years   23.0           4        1)    23.0      C1)    23.0        C1)    23.0        C1)    23.0               -              92.0    100            92.0        -
Marketing Supervisors                    han years    5.0         25      C5)    20.0        C 5)    20.0      (5)    20.0          5 5)    20.0     C )      20.0        100.0     ..             -        100.0
Market Assistant Grade                   Man yeara    1.3        356      (35)    55.5      (60)    78.0        (87)   113.1      (87)   113.1       (87)   113.1         562.8      -             -        462.8
Sub total                                                              88.5              121.0              156.1             156.1               133.1        655.8      15           92.0      562.8
Engineering Srvices
CheEsner                          Man years   23.0          5      (1)    23.0          I )    23.0      (1)    23.0       (1)    23.0        (1)    23.0          115.0    100           115.0         -
Technical Engineer                      M4an years   17.0         15        4 )    68.0      ( )    68.0         4 )    68.0        3)    51.0              -255.0    100                        255.0         -
~Rvral Engineers                         Man years    5.0         70      (13)    65.0       (15)    75.0       (15)    75.0       (15)    75.0      (12)    60.0         350.0       --                     350.0
Senior Technical lost. Grade            Man years    1.3          64      (13)    16.9      (13)    16.9       (13)    ic.9       (13)    1c.9       (12)    15.6          83.2      --83.1
Techinical Assistant Grade              Mac years    0.9          25      C6)      5.5        6)      5.5      (  )      5. (4 5)           3.6      (3)       2.7         22.5      --22.5
Sub itatl                                                             178.3              182.3              188.3              169.`              101.3        825.7      55          370.0      455.7
TOTAL SALARIES ANlD ALLOWANCES l/                                     691.0              982.7            1,260.9           1,285.8            1,I2           ,310.1      23        1,198.1   4,112.0
l/ Allowances for internationally recruited staff include all resettlement costs, education allcicuaces, travel, gratuities etc-. - equivalent to about i00i6 of salary.
Allowances for local staff include leave, car allowance, gratuities etc. - equivalent to 30% of salary.
November 7, 1973



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Running Costs of Vehicles-/ and Plant
N' 000
No. of                                                                                                      Foreign Exchange        Local
Unit     Unit Cost  Units          Year 1           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          Total    %             Cost        Cost
Pro iect Adt inistration
4 vhel drive vehicle                     kr/year       N 0.07   30,000   ( 1)        2.1     ( 1)      2.1      1 l)    2.1     ( )      2.1     ( 1)      2.1       10.5    44             4.6         5.9
Motorcar large                              041/year      N o.o6   30,000   ( 1)       1.8     ( 2)      3.6    ( 2)      3.6    ( 2)       3.6     ( 2)     3.6       16.2    44              7.1         9.1
YMotorcycles                                km/year       N 0.01   15,000   ( 4)       o.6    ( 4)       o.6    (4)       o.6    ( 4)       o.6     ( 4)     o.6        3.0    44              1.3         1.7
Sub total                                                                4.5              6.3               6.3              6.3               6.3       29.7    44            13.0         16.7
Technical Services
4 wheel drive vehicles                      km/year       N 0.07   30,000   ( 2)       4.2     ( 4)      8.4       4 6)   8.4       4 6)    8.4     ( 4)     8.4       37.8    44             16.6        21.2
Motorcar large                              ks/year       N o.o6   20,000   ( 1)       1.2     ( 1)      1.2    ( 1)      1.2     ( 1)      1.2    ( 1)      1.2        6.0    44              2.6         3.4
Pickup trucks                              km/year        N 0.06   30,000       6 6)    10.8   ( 8)    14.6    ( 8)    14.4    ( 8)    1I4.4    ( 8)    1.-4           68.4    44            30.1         38.3
Personnel Carriers                         km/year        N 0.06   20,000   ( 1)       1.2     ( 2)      2.4    ( 2)      2.4    ( 2)       2.4     ( 2)     2.4       10.8    44             4.8          6.o
Trucks (5 ton)                             ks/year        N 0.08   30,000   (2)        4.8     ( 4)      9.6    ( 4)      9.6     ( 4)      9.6     ( 4)     9.6       43.2    44            19.0         24.2
Motorcycles                                 km/year       N 0.01   12,000   (22)        2.6    (51)      6.1    (82)       9.8   (101)    12.1   (101)    12.1         42.7    44             18.8        23.9
Sub total                                                               24.8             42.1              45.8             48.1              48.1      208.9    44            91.9       117.0
Credit Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                       km/year       N 0.07   30,000   ( 1)        2.1    ( 1)      2.1    ( 1)       2.1     ( 1)     2.1     ( 1)      2.1       10.5    66             4.6         5.9
Motorcar large                              km/year       N o.o6   20,000   ( 1)        1.2    ( 1)      1.2     ( 1)      1.2     ( 1)     1.2     ( 1)      1.2        6.o    44             2.6         3.4
Pickup trucks                              ks/year        N o.06   30,000   ( 5)       9.0    (5)        9.0    ( 5)      9.0     ( 5)      9.0    (5)        9.0      45.0    44             19.8        25.2
Motorcycles                                 km/year       N 0.01   10,000   (30)        3.0    (70)      7.0   (184)    18.4   (186)    18.4   (184)    18.4            65.2    44            28.7        36.5
Sub total                                                               15.3              19.3             30.7              30.7             30.7      126.7    44            55.7         71.0
Market Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                       km/year       N 0.07   30,000   ( 1)        2.1     ( 1)     2.1     ( 1)      2.1    ( 1)      2.1     ( 1)      2.1       lo.5    44             4.6         5.9
Pickup trucks                              km/year        N o.o6   30,000   (5)        9.0     ( 5)      9.0    (5)        9.0    ( 5)      9.0     ( 5)      9.0       45.0    44            19.8        25.2
Motorcycles                                 ks/year       N 0.01   20,000   ( 5)        1.0    (10)      2.0    (lo)       2.0    (10)      2.0    (lo)       2.0        9.0    44             4.0         5.0
Sub total                                                               12.1              13.1             13.1              13.1             13.1       64.5    44             28.4        36.1
NEn.ieerin  Services
4 wheeldrive vehicles                       km/year       N 0.07   30,000   ( 3)        6.3     ( 3)     6.3     ( 3)      6.3     (3)      6.3     ( 3)      6.3       31.5    44            13.9         17.6
Pickup trucks                               km/year       N 0.06   20,000   ( 6)        7.2    (10)    12.0    (10)    12.0    (10)    12.0    (10)    12.0             55.2    44            24.3         30.9
Road Construction Plant 2/                  see Annex 4. Table 4                      83.1             153.2             153.2            153.2             153.2      695.9    38           264.0       431.9
Workshop operating                          see Annex 4, Table 4                       24.8             44.7              44.7             44.7              44.7      203.6   ;!9            99.4       104.2
Soil and Ilater Conservation Plant          see Annex 5, Table 1                      16.8             104.8            106.8             106.8             1o6,.8     4346.     42          180.7       253.3
Sub total                                                              136.2             321.0            321.0             321.0             321.0   1,420.2    41           .582.3       837.9
TOTAL RUNNING COSTS OF VEHICLES AND PLANT                              192.9             401.8            416.9             419.2             619.2   1,850.0    42            771.3    1,078.7
1/ Includes fuel, lub., filters, tyres, spares and repairs, and driver (excludes depreciation).
2/ Includes labor.
November 7, 1973
e -



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Service Costs
' 000
Unit     No. of                                                                                                  Freign Exchange        Local
Unit         Cost    Units         Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5        Total          C       Cost      Cost
HQ Expenses
Project head office                                                                 3.0             6.o              8.0             10.0             10.0      37.0    50            18.5       18.5
Developmaent Center Office                Each         0.5         25     ( 5)      2.5    ( 5)     2.5    ( 5)      2.5    ( 5)      2.5    ( 5)      2.5      12.5    50             6.2        6.3
Service Center Office                     Each         0.1        281     (15)      1.5    (35)     3.5    (77)      7.7    (77)      7.7    (77)      7.7      28.1    50            14.0      114.1
Telephone Cables                                                                    2.0             4.0              6.o              6.o              6.o      24.0    -              -         24.o
Field Radio Maintenance                                                             2.0             4.o              5.0              5.0              5.0      21.0    -              -         21.0
House Rentals 1/                          Per officer  0.5         75     (62)    31.0    ( 9)      4.5    ( 4)      2.0            -                -          37.5    -              -         37.5
Building Maintenance 2/                                                           -                40.3              73-u           102.9            104.)     321.3    10            32.1      205d.2
Insurance on plant and equipment 3                                                 20.6            28.0             34.6             39.0             41.0     163.2    40            65.3       97.9
Sub total                                                            62.6             92.8            139.0            173.1           i7,.5      044.6   21           136.1       508.5
Credit Operating
Maintenance of Equipment and Stationery                                             0.5              2.0              3.5             5.0              8.0       19.0    60           11.4         7.6
Land Co  ensation
Dam sites 4/                              Each         0.4         85      ( 5)     2.0              8.o              8.0             8.0              8.o       34.0    -             -          34.0
Road right of way  H/ Ma                               0.045   2,000    (1400)    18.0   (400)    18.0   (400)    18.0  (400)    18.0   (400)    18.0            90.0    -             -          90.0
Sub total                                                            20.0             26.0             26.o             26.0             26.0     124.0    -             -         124.0
Tractor Hire Service 6/
Tractor and implement operating           Tractor yrs. 1.35        42      (15)    20.3    (12)    16.2    ( 9)    12.2    ( 6)       8.1            -           56.8    44           25.0        31.8
Farm Training Centers
Running cost - food and supplies 7/       Training yrs 8.0          9      ( 1)     8.o    ( 2)    16.0    ( 2)    16.0    ( 2)    16.0    ( 2)    16.0          72.0    -             -          72.0
Seed Multiplication Farms 8/                                              ( 2)    73.0    ( 2)    73.0    ( 2)    73.0    ( 2)    73.0    ( 2)    73.0          365.0    50          182.5      182.5
Road Paintenace 9/                                                                121.0            38.3             38.3             50.3             38.3      286.2    53          151.1      135.1
TOTAL GENERAL SERVICE COSTS                                         305.14           261.3            308.6            351.5            337.8   1,567.6    32           506.1    1,061.5
1/ Project senior staff (AO, AS grades) during 1st year of service prior to completion of houses av. cost N 500 per annum.
2/ At 2V  of capital cost. Capital cost Year 1 N 1,611,000; Year 2 N 2,$51,000; Year 3 N 4,116,000; Year 4 N 4,173,000.
A/ 4t 2% per annum and includes third party, fire risk ard workman's compensation.
4/ 8 ha per dam @ N 45 per ha in N 360 per dam say N 400.
g/ 2,000 ha @ N 45 per ha.
6/ 900 hours/tractor/annum @ N 1.5 hr. - phased out over 4 years.
7/ 8,000 stuient days/annum @ N 1 per day.
9/ For details see Annex 2.
9/  Fcr details see Annex L, Table 5.
November 7, 1973
C3lD



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Prolect Financing
Per
-__________-----------------N'OOO------------------------------                             Disbursement Schedule
Year 1       Year 2      Year 3        Year 4       Year 5       Total        US$o00o             US$ million
IBRD Disbursements
Category
I. Vehicles, plant and equipment                 784.4        288.4        256.8        168.3         79.1      1,577.0       2,397.o                2.4
II. Farm inputs                                   281.5        584.1      1,170.1      1,287.5      1,113.4      4,436.6       6,743.7                6.7
III. Salaries and allowances:
(a) expatriates recruited                   261.0        295.o        295.0       261.o          86.0      1,198.0      1,821.0                1.8
internationally
(b) staff recruited locally                 258.0       412.6         579.5       614.9         602.0      2,467.0      3,749.8                3.7
IV. Buildings, houses and construction
material                                  1,032.6        901.8        796.8        132.o        118.8      2,982.0      4,532.6                4.5
V. Evaluation section:
PMEU                                        164.6         84.1         84.1         93.1         84.1        510.0        775.2                0.8
Field evaluation                            125.3         63.5         66.3         70.6         66.3        392.0        595.9                o.6
VI. Unallocated                                    717.2        993.0     1,434.3      1,048.1       1,323.7      5,516.3      8,384.8                8.5
Sub total                                 3,624.6      3,622.5      4,682.9      3,675.5      3,473.4    19,078.9    29,000.0                 29.0
Federal Government Funds
PMEU evaluation section                             109.6         56.1         56.1         62.1         56.1        340.0
Unallocated                                          13.7         18.9         27.3         20.0         25.1        105.0
Sub total                                   123.3         75.0         83.4         82.1         81.2        445.0
North Central State
Vehicles, plant and equipment                       256.6         94.4         84.o         55.0         26.0        516.0
Subsidies                                           170.5        424.4        978.6      1,600.3      2,091.9      5,265.7
Farm inputs                                          28.2         46.6         86.4         71.9         29.2        262.3
Salaries for locally recruited staff                172.0        275.1        386.4        409.9        401.6      1,645.0
Buildings, houses and construction
material                                          688.4        601.2        531.2         88.0         79.2      1,988.0
Field evaluation                                     83.6         42.1         44.1         47.0         44.1        260.9
Vehicles and plant operating                        192.9        401.8        416.9        419.2        419.2      1,850.0
General service costs                               305.4        264.3        308.6        351.5        337.8      1,567,6
Unallocated                                         399.2        552.7        798.3        583.4        736.6      3,070.2
Sub total                                 2,296.8      2,702.6      3,634.5      3,626.2      4,165.6    16,425.7
Farmer Funds
Farm inputs                                          81.2        180.5        368.6        428.7        404.0      1,463.0
Unallocated                                          59.0         81.7        118.0         86.2        108.7        453.6
Sub total                                   140.2        262.2        486.6        514.9        512.7      1,916.6
Total Financing                           6,184.9      6,662.3      8,887.4      7,898.7      8,232.9    37,866.2
July 31, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flow for NCS
N'OOO
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5       Year 6      Year 7       Year 8       Year 9      Year 10
Inflow of Funds
Loans from FMG 1/                                    3,432.2      3,499.9     4,543.2      3,541.8     4,061.9         -            -            -            -
Outflow of Funds
Vehicles, plant and equipment 2/                     1,041.0        382.8       340.8        223.3        105.1        20.8        102.3         50.1         57.9         50.0
Houses, buildings and construction 3/                1,721.0      1,503.0      1,328.0       222.0        198.0         -           -            -            -            -
Staff salaries and allowances 4/                       691.0        982.7     1,260.9      1,285.8      1,089.6       956.6        745.7        441.1        363.2        294.1
Vehicle operating 5/                                   192.9        401.8       416.9        419.2        419.2       187.9         80.0         70.0         60.0         60.0
General service cost 6/                                305.4        264.3        308.6       351.5        337.8       267.1        206.6        202.9        200.0         198.5
Evaluation                                             208.9        105.6       110.4        117.6        110.4       105.6         -            -            -             -
Pertilizer subsidy                                     170.5        424.4        978.6     1,600.3      2,091.9     2,100.0      2,100.0      2,100.0      2,100.0      2,100.0
Revolving credit fund 7/                               310.0        630.0     1,256.0      1,359.0      1,142.0        -            -            -            -             -
Contingencies                                        1,110.0      1,500.0     2,150.0      1,550.0      2,000.0       700.0        700.0        700.0        700.0         700.0
Sub total                                  5,750.7     6,194.6      8,150.2     7,128.7      7,494.0      4,338.o      3,934.6     3,564.1      3,481.1       3,402.6
Loan Repayment to FMS
Commitment charges 8/                                  117.0         91.0         57.0        31.0         -                        -            -            -             -
Interest during grace period 9/                        275.0        555.0        918.0     1,199.0      1,526.0        -            -            -            -             -
Principal and interest 10/                              -            -            -           -            -        2,206.0      2,206.0      2,206.0      2,206.0      2,206.0
Sub total                                    392.0       646.o        975.0      1,230.0     1,526.o      2,206.o      2,206.0     2,206.0      2,206.0       2,206.0
Total Outflow                              6,142.7     6,840.6      9,125.2      8,358.7     9,016.0      6,544.o      6,140.6     5,770.1      5,687.1       5,608.6
Balance                                   (2,710.5)   (3,340.7)   (4,582.0)   (4,816.9)   (4,954.1)   (6,544.o)   (6,140.6)   (5,770.1)   (5,687.1)    (5,608.6)
1/ Onlending of IBRD loan.
/ Replacement exclude items listed in note 5 below.
3/ Maintenance included under general service costs.
4/ From year 7 marketing service costs absorbed by NSNB - year 7-year 10 NCS cost of credit service transferred to a formal credit institution.
5/ Excludes those services as per note 4 above.
6/ Excludes road maintenance from year 7.
7/ Incremental requirements only.                                                                                                                                                   X
8/ 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed Bank loan.                                                                                                                                           M -
9/ For 5 years @ 8% per annum,
10/ N 19,079,000 @ 8% repayable in 30 equal 6 monthly installments of interest and principal over 15 years from year 6-20.
July 31, 1974



ANNEX 11
Table 3
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
US$ Million      Cumulative US$ Million
FY 75
Semester 1                              -                      _
Semester 2                            1.5                    1.5
;7Y 76
Semester 1                            30O                     4.5
Semester 2                            30                     7.5
77
Semester 1                            3.0                   l0o3
Semester 2                            300                   l3.0
Semester 1                            300                   1605
Semester 2                             30                  i9.5
#FY 79
Semester 1                            3.0                    2205
Semester 2                             2.5                   25.0
FY 80
Semester 1                            2.0                    27l.0
Semester 2                             20O                   29.0
July 31, 1974






ANNEX 12
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Background Summary
1.        To date officially organized marketing in the northern states has
been confined to the so called cash crops, primarily cotton and groundnuts.
Arrangements for food crops have evolved through the private sector on a
laissez-faire basis with minimal assistance, or interference, from Federal
or State Governments. Producer prices for cash crops have been dete mined by
world levels (over which Nigeria has little influence) and the need to generate
Government revenue. Food prices have been determined by domestic supply demand
relationships in an essentially self sufficient environment largely uninfluenced
by world levels. The basic conflict between the systems has only recently
become apparent as the price effect of increased food grain demand has impacted
on overall cropping patterns.
2.        The geographical extent of the country, difficulty of communication
and the widespread nature of basically subsistence oriented food crop pro-
duction has prevented the development of an integrated national grain-market.
Consequently there has grown up a multiplicity of small, unrelated markets;
these are probably rather efficient in themselves but they nevertheless give
rise to marked spatial and temporal price irregularities. In such an imperfect
situation, inelasticity of market demand has a magnifying effect on price
movement and emphasises inadequacies in both structure and system. Prices
for food grains are now, however, sufficiently high to compete with tradi-
tional cash crops where labor constraints permit. Nevertheless there is
continued heavy private and state investment in agro-industry, particularly
seed crushing, and textile mills much of which will remain underutilized
unless significant increases in marketed output of the traditional cash crops
are achiieved.
3.        In order to improve the situation, increase relative cash crop
returns and overcome imperfections and inefficiencies in stat tory marketing
systems, FMG has initiated a series of policy and organizational changes.
Producer prices are now Federal rather than State responsibility, taxes have
been reduced or abolished, and some means of fixing marketing overheads are
being introduced. To stimulate food grain production a form of price support
is planned operating through a national storage and marketing program. A
series of national grain production units (State owner and operated commercial
farms) is also contemplated. Detailed plans for the implementation of these
policies have still to be announced. There is clearly considerable room,
and need, for improvements in marketing if proper benefits of better production



ANNEX 12
Page 2
technology are to accrue to both producer and consumer; however recent and
current intercrop price relationships show the importance of an overall,
balanced approach if production of one set of crops is not to be unduly
enhanced at the expense of others. Certainly the development of a medium term
minimum price policy, coupled with timely preplanting announcement of producer
prices for gazetted crops is badly needed.
B. Statutory Marketing Organizations
4.        Scheduled crops 1/ are marketed through statutory organizations
controlling a series of franchise operations - each of which may have oppor-
tunities to exploit a monopolistic position. Until recently the primary
marketing organization (NSMB) enjoyed the d minant role, coordinating the
functions of the various participants in the system (LBA, CAP, NPMC). FMG
has now taken over NPMC as part of the program to reorganize and improve
marketing; 2/ NSMB will now act only as purchasing agent for its erstwhile
subsidiary, which will continue to carry out the export marketing function.
5.        Producer prices for statutory crops have become a Federal responsi-
bility, recommendations being made to the Head of State by the Technical
Committee on Produce Prices. -NSMB will pass on produce to NPMC at a fixed
price, intended to take into account NSMB marketing costs and administrative
overheads. These have still to be determined and agreed. NSMB operations
are extensive and the difficulties exacerbated by lack of communication
facilities, particularly feeder roads. Apart from obvious consequent prob-
lems of crop movement, this limitation also results in considerable hindrance
to the exercise of proper financial and operational control over all those
involved in produce marketing.
6.        Rural buying and first assembly are performed through a system of
licensed buying agent (LBA) and subagents. Quality control is the responsi-
bility of the Produce Inspection Department (PID) of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Cotton is officially graded by Produce Examiners (PE) prior to purchase at
gazetted markets. Groundnuts are officially graded by Produce Inspectors (PI)
after purchase and on presentation at designated inspection points. Check
grading takes place when goods are moved into or from NSMB storage points.
LBA are required to arrange their own finance for purchases and are paid
(through discountable produce receipts) upon delivery to NSMB depot. Despite
this payment LBA remain responsible for "their" produce while it is stored
and until it is despatched to the consumer.
7.        NSMB accounts are not available beyond 1967/68 and even these are
unreliable; costings used in this annex are therefore derived or implied, and
are not objective measures of actual performance. Estimated 1972 marketing
costs expressed as percentage of the FOB price are as follows:
1/   In the project area cotton and groundnuts are the most important.
2/   The new policy aims at reducing the burden of taxation; reducing statutory
marketing overheads, transferring world price developments more accurately
to producers.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Groundnuts            Cotton Lint
 _____________  %      --------------
NPMIC                            1                    1
NSMB                             3.3                  5
CAP (BCGA)                      -                     8
LBA                             5   9.3               7    21
Transport, handling         )                     )
Bags, Insurance,            )  13                 ) 13
storage, port charges       )       13            )        13
Produce Sales Tax               2                     2
Export Duty                     16  18               15    17
NSMB Profits                         4.7                   -
45.0                  51.0
8.        Export duty and produce sales tax have been abolished and replaced
by a single produce tax. Tihis is set at 10% of producer price compared with
about 25% before the reform.
9.        World prices, currently at a very high level, are expected to
decline over the course of the project; the fixed nature of most marketing
costs means that such a decline would be disproportionately reflected in
resulting producer prices. It is therefore important that new policies and
practices result in the best possible relative return to farmers thereby
increasing production incentives at given crop values. To attempt to overcome
the problem by arbitrary reduction of agency allowances, in reflection of
individual crop prosperity, would only result in the 'saving' being translated
into a direct or indirect reduction of the price actually paid to producers.
10.       Since the project would operate within the statutory marketing
system it is necessary to identify the deficiencies and outline ways in which
improvements may be made. This may be doubly important in view of the possible
parallel development of a price support program for food grains..
C. Marketing Policy and Organization
Fragmentation of Responsibility
11.       Absence of total marketing responsibility, particularly at primary
level, frustrates the emergence of corporate pride and wholehearted effort so
important in an operation of this nature. The present system of split respon-
sibilities under which PID and not NSMB are responsible for the conduct of



ANNEX 12
Page 4
markets operated by NSMB agents, as well as aspects of produce quality, is
more divisive than cohesive. It appears to provide more opportunities for
abuse than for the imposition of independent checks and balances which it is
intended to do. Clearly, independent inspection is essential at a point or
points in the marketing chain, however the organization responsible for market-
ing should not only control its agents but should also have power to decide
whether or not produce is of sound marketable quality. It should then be in
a position to adequately control storage and accept the consequent risks.
Presently NSMB bears a number of risks without compensatory control. Possible
abuse of quality (and thus price) at primary level may be overcome partially
by inspection but mainly by proper competitive buying.
Late Announcement of Seasonal Guaranteed Prices
12.       In the past prices have seldom been announced prior to planting.
This has prevented firm price considerations from affecting planting decisions.
Furthermore, inter-seasonal world price variations reflect conditions over
which Nigeria has little or no control or influence. Consequently the linking
of annual producer prices to projected world levels is likely to result in
magnified production fluctuations compared with a rather stable domestic
demand. A 'rolling' three to five year minimum price structure, related to
projected world prices, should be developed. This would encourage better
planning at farm level and assist achievement of greater interseasonal pro-
duction stability. Within this structure, minimum seasonal prices would be
announced before planting, and confirmed (or increased if justified) prior
to the opening of markets.
Lack of an effective crop reporting and market intelligence system
13.       This prevents early assessment of crop sizes and dispositions and
either prevents timely marketing decisions from being made, or causes them
to be inadequately based. The establishment of an intelligence service is
a long term undertaking, however early and significant improvements could be
achieved by instituting a more widespread comparative two-way reporting system
among members of MANR, Local Authorities, and NSMB staff, coordinated at
State and Federal level. It must be emphasized that communication needs to
be two way: a field reporter should be kept informed of conditions outside
his immediate area, if only to maintain his interest. The present practice
of keeping crop and weather reports under 'secret' cover is self defeating.
The development of an intelligence service is essential to improving food
grain marketing.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
D. Marketing Practices
The Licensed Buying Agent (LBA)
14.       The number of LBA is relatively small compared to the number of
agents and sub-agents directly or indirectly employed. Although open compet-
ition is officially encouraged it hardly exists except in areas directly tribu-
tary to major highways. Transportation difficulties are very real and non-
competitive practices result, with little encroachment by one LBA on the
'territory' of another. In general, LBA perform reasonably well, but the un-
scrupulous have not been adequately disciplined in the past; the monopolistic
positions achieved for individual LBA by a network of subagents and buyers
means that suspension or dismissal of a LBA, mid season, could result in farm-
ers being worse off through denial of outlets for their produce. Most of the
'normal' methods of cheating in produce marketing are employed at various
degrees at all levels of trade. These include underweighing and undergrading,
imposition of 'dash' payments for inspection services, degradation of gazetted
market services (thereby forcing sales elsewhere) etc. LBA and their agents
naturally do not confine their activities solely to produce, however the advance
of consumer credit at other times, for ultimate repayment with produce, provides
another means of 'buying' at less than gazetted levels. The fact that produce
payments by NSMB are not always prompt or assured, provides constant encouragement
for cheating to continue.
15.       Buying Seasons are over extended relative to volume purchased.  This
increases costs and further degrades competition through frequent absences of
buyers and PID staff.
16.       Movement and Storage particularly of groundnuts, is poorly planned
and executed. This is partially due to lack of crop information but also due
to system rigidities which prevent optimum use being made of the resources
and facilities of the local agro-industry. The continuation of LBA responsi-
bility for produce while it is in NSMB depots or dumps adds unnecessarily to
storage costs.
E. Individual Crop Marketing
Cotton Marketing
17.       Cotton marketing is probably the most highly technical of all annual
crops and maximum cooperation among all involved in the industry is essential
if producer and consumer requirements are to be satisfactorily blended and
returns assured.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
18.       Recent experience shows that production is price sensitive; thus
the projected decline in world values makes it even more important that post
harvest and preplanting costs are reduced as much as possible. Ways of effec-
ting further savings need to be explored as well, and in this respect the
project should be able to make a significant contribution. The main defects
include:
(i) high seed waste and loss;
(ii) poor handling and storage techniques up to point of
ginning; and
(iii) absence of independent quality assessment of cotton lint.
Seed wastage
19.       Planting seed is dressed and distributed to strategically sited
stores, where it is held before being issued free of charge. Apparent plant-
ing rate is three to six times that recommended but seed is also used for other
purposes, such as fertilizer, and as an effective "smudge" fire against mosqui-
toes. Although theoretically free, cotton seed is traded in village markets,
sellers usually being those who live near a cottonseed store and have managed
to work a corner on local supplies. Cottonseed accounts for about 65% of the
weight and 35% of the total value of seed cotton; it costs about N 15.00 a ton
to dress and deliver to store, thus every ton of seed unnecessarily dressed
and distributed results in a marketing loss of about N 65.00. For 1973/74 the
total cost is probably in excess of N 1.3 million, or, in terms of producer
returns, rather more than 1 kobo/kg seed cotton, equivalent to 8% of the pro-
ducer price in the 1973/74 season. Part of the cause of over supply of plant-
ing seed (for which allowances have been made in arriving at the above figure)
is the relatively poor performance of fuzzy, i.e. undelinted seed. The solu-
tion would seem to lie in progressively moving toward a situation where only
"improved" (i.e. delinted) seed is available and for which at least a nominal
price has to be paid by growers.
70.       By using acid delinting all costs of dressing would be saved (and
the mixers released for other seed treatment), empty seeds would be floated
off and high germination reasonably assured. After allowing a 30% weight loss
for delinting and seed selection, at least half of the customarily required
quantity of seed would thus become available for sale. Additional expense
would be incurred in packaging seed for sale in 10 kg bags, but this cost as
well as that of actual delinting would be more than compensated by the sav-
ings in both seed and distribution costs. The project would be an excellent
vehicle for developing this approach, all seed being sold through service
centers. Estimated financial benefits would be about N 5.8 per ton of seed
cotton. The estimated cost of delinting, distributing and packaging is about



ANNEX 12
Page 7
40 kobo per 10 kg. pack (enough for 0.5 ha) so the sale price could be rela-
tively nominal, however some charge must be made, and better seed performance
demonstrated, if the present widespread abuses are to be curbed and a great-
er proportion of the real value of seed cotton realized. In discussions
with CAP and its parent company, the principle of their installing acid delin-
ting plants during the project has been tentatively agreed, subject to suit-
able arrangements being made concerning fees.
21.       Handling and storage of seed cotton:  After purchase, seed cotton is
packed in 100 lb bags and transported to dumps near the ginneries. From there
it is ultimately moved to the gin, being reweighed, unbagged and check graded
into the suction room. LBA remain responsible for the cotton they have pur-
chased until after it has been weighed into the gin, although provisional pay-
ment will already have been made to them on purchased weights and grades.
There is little enthusiasm or incentive among LBA to ensure proper storage in
the dumps: spoilage of cotton through failure to provide stillage is usual.
PID control is sketchy and it is by no means unusual for LBA to wet seed cotton
before it is weighed into the gin in an attempt to increase weight and/or over-
come losses caused by natural shrinkage or other less easily explained causes.
22.       Efficiency would be improved and losses reduced by providing fixed
(plinth) storage at the dumps and limiting responsibility of LBA to delivering
cotton to point of storage, from which time it would come under the charge of
ginners (CAP), until completion of the ginning process. Although no procedural
changes in marketing have yet been agreed, the project does provide for the
construction of proper seed cotton reception and storage facilities adjacent
to ginneries. Total cost of each storage depot (there would be three con-
structed under the project) is estimated at N 94,000 including cost of a
weighbridge. The possibility of opening ginnery markets, for the purchase of
large lots, i.e. group marketed produce, needs to be investigated, as does
the feasibility of reducing handling by bulk movement of cotton from village
markets.
23.       Absence of independent lint quality assessment:  seed cotton is
graded on purchase and prior to ginning, and the lint is subsequently classified
by CAP, for which service they receive a flat fee payment from NSMB. The crop
is then allocated to spinners taking account of their stated requirements,
(prepared 12 months in advance) and classes actually available. No selling
samples are furnished nor in cases of dispute is there any provision for in-
dependent quality determination, although these are customary trade practices,
and are performed on all export contracts. A partial consequence is an almost
total lack of cooperation within the industry, and while neither side is blame-
less, the take it or leave it attitude of sellers does not contribute to a
greater degree of understanding. The manufacturers could contribute to a
greater degree of understanding, and could contribute considerably to the well-
being of the cotton industry through their technical and research expertise
and experience elsewhere, and it is important that a more coordinated approach
is adopted.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
24.       The whole approach to cotton marketing is lack-lustre and far great-
er enthusiasm needs to be generated if anticipated falls in world values are
not to make the crop unremunerative. Ginneries are well sited and could be-
come catalysts for production instead of just processing agencies; the possible
development of much closer links between the State Government and CAP might
assist this. Greater participation by spinners in development could result
in competitive contract ginning: whatever does happen, marketing costs must
be brought into more reasonable relationship with the value of the crop.
25.       Cotton Ginning:  The ginning season extends for about 24 weeks from
December to June and ginning capacities are calculated on this basis. (Table
3.) These levels have been exceeded by up to 20% in exceptional years but
absence of covered storage for seed cotton makes extension of the season im-
practical. Additional facilities would be needed towards the end of the proj-
ect development period and management of CAP is willing to increase effective
capacity as justified by sustained growth of production. Detailed arrangements
would be concluded by project management, MANR, NSMB and CAP during the devel-
opment period. All ginning is done under contract with NSMB, the present
agreement expiring in 1976. Estimated break even is about 200,000 bales, after
which fees are reduced; mean output over the last 13 years was 262,000 bales
(249,000 omitting highest and lowest years).
Groundnut Marketing
26.       Groundnuts are purchased from farmers at buying points licensed by
the Local Authority, although considerable 'assembly buying' by subagents also
occurs outside licensed markets. Operations are not supervised and farmers,
particularly in areas remote from roads, are frequently cheated. Conversely,
the way in which LBA allowances are calculated results in strong competition
in areas near inspection stations and inducements in cash or kind may be
offered in order to attract offerings from farmers. All purchases are in-
spected and graded at PID supervised inspection stations before being moved
into NSMB depots where they are checked and stacked in pyramids. LBA remain
responsible for stored nuts until they are despatched for export or to local
mills.
27.       Groundnuts should be moved as little as possible in order to minimize
percentage of "splits and brokens" which are more liable to aflatoxin infection
and reduce the quality of a sample. Current practices could be improved and
handling reduced, particularly now that local crushing capacity is beginning
to outstrip groundnut production. Much of the present overhandling is, how-
ever due to lack of adequate early information concerning the size and geo-
graphical disposition of the crop; until this situation is remedied unnecessary
marketing costs will continue to be incurred. Nevertheless the establishment
of depots adjacent to mills would cut out quite a large amount of present
handling and double transport. Consideration should also be given to the
establishment of depot markets to which Farmer Associations or other similar



ANNEX 12
Page 9
marketing groups could deliver directly. This type of operation would be
well suited for development within the project since nuts could be assembled
and graded at a service center, and then either held to the order of NSMB
(storage charges being payable) or despatched to mill or exported.
28.       Export marketing is carried out by NPMC, with local crushers being
allowed to buy at a level equivalent to world price. This price is deter-
mined and fixed daily by NPMC and representatives of the oil millers, who are
free to make their own arrangements for the sale of oil and cake. Raw mate-
rial price movements are not usually immediately reflected in those of the
products, and vice versa; it can be argued that local millers have the put
and take on the market. This may be true to some extent, certainly a better
overall price could be realized if the marketing agency had selling options
(i.e. nuts, oil or cake or combinations thereof) always open to it. The
possibilities and potential ramifications of this should be investigated but,
on the face of it, benefits are likely to be small relative to the risks in-
volved and the sophistication of information and action required. Neverthe-
less, the projected declines in world value through increasing competiton
from other sources of oil and protein make it essential that marketing prac-
tices, and costs are carefully examined and improvements made, wherever possible.
Marketing and the Project
29.       Trends of marketed production over the last decade combined with
recent food price developments properly reflect the failure of the marketing
systems, statutory and otherwise, to adequately transmit consumer needs to
producers. Relatively poor production performance is not solely the fault of
marketing - lack of education and associated physical inputs such as fertilizer
is also to blame - but the inescapable fact remains that for statutory crops
at least, farmers have not been offered enough incentive in terms of price and/
or service to encourage increased output. This failure of the system has been
heightened bt shortcomings within the system which have led to apparently in-
creasing abuses and consequent accelerated producer disenchantment. Under the
project, steps would be taken to rectify this position; indeed, faith in the
systems must be restored if projected benefits are to be generated. To facil-
itate this transition maximum use would be made of the physical facilities
within the project together with some organizational and operational changes.
30.       Abuse and evasion of statutory marketing requirements by LBA and
PID staff has been made easier by the small farmers basic lack of bargaining
power. The cooperative movement has been neither widespread nor effective
enough to alter this situation. Project staffed service centers would not
purchase products but would provide a focal point for farmers from which
they would draw advice and assistance and at which they would collectively
increase their bargaining power. The service center would become a place
of first assembly and storage from which, eventually, deliveries would be
made directly to domestic buyers or point of export. On such a basis the
project would make the following marketing improvements:



ANNEX 12
Page 10
(i) Restoring or establishing producers faith in the system
through:
(a) early announcement of producer prices;
(b)  adequate control and discipline of marketing agents;
(c)  enhanced competition at gazetted markets;
(d)  provision of timely and accurate market intelligence;
(e)  facilities for increasing individual farmers bargaining
power; and
(f)  assistance in securing profitable outlets for new cash
crops, such as maize.
(ii)  Developing a more disciplined approach to statutory marketing
by producers, thereby cutting costs;
(iii)  Investigating and developing new approaches in order to ensure
the producer as large a share as possible of ultimate product
value.
31.       Statutory Crop Purchasing.  LBA and their subagents in the project
area would be subject to approval by project management. Since project super-
visory coverage of all sorts would be fairly intensive, abuses by LBA or their
agents should be quickly discovered and similarly dealt with.
32.       In order to ensure that crop purchases are not impeded through lack
of finance, arrangements would be made by NSMB (or NPMC) for working capital
requirements, as estimated by project management, to be advanced to LBA in
the project area.
33.       LBA should quickly realize that there is more to be lost than gained
by attempting to cheat farmers. Apart from much easier transport as a result
of the improved roads, as well as more easily obtained crop finance; LBA oper-
ating in the project area would be best placed to benefit from the immediate
economic consequences of increased production, not least would be back hauls
with farm inputs as well as other generally more attractive consumer goods.
34.       Project management would be given LBA status.  While it is not
intended that the project should carry out any crop purchasing, such an ap-
pointment would enable sub-licensing, and therefore full audit control, of
emergent farmer or other associations wishing and competent to engage in
group marketing. Such a system would greatly ease the potential problems of
training emergent marketers.



ANNEX 12
Page 11
35.       Fair buying practices would be encouraged through the careful siting
of markets. Initially these would be situated as jointly agreed between proj-
ect management, PID, NSMB, and appropriate local authority. Over the course
of the project gazetted markets would come to be sited only directly adjacent
to a servicing center. Actual purchasing would be carried out under the direct
supervision of the project employed PE or PI. Farmers would be encouraged to
weigh their produce on the dial or self recording scale prior to sale. The
principle of competive servicing of producers would be reasserted and every
market would have at least two authorized buyers. Table 5 shows schematic
layout of a proposed center.
36.       Extended seasons add unnecessarily to marketing costs, reduced super-
vision and competition, and make early assessment of marketable production
more difficult. After peak marketing periods, purchases would only be made
on set market days; in addition the possibility of shortening the marketing
season would be investigated. Although this would result in greater flows
and increased peak cash requirements during certain months, the benefits of
having earlier control of the crop would outweigh these considerations.
37.       While these steps should result in a considerable improvement in
farmers gross receipts for a given weight of produce, some of their possible
impact would be lost if they are not matched by an effective pricing policy.
It is essential that firm preplanting prices are widely announced.
38.       Food grains and other crops.  The facilities of the service center
would be available to Farmer Associations for assembly and short term storage;
difficulties over identity preservation would make it impractical to allow sim-
ilar use by individuals. Lack of accurate information is one of the major
constraints to improving food grain marketing. Under the project a market
intellingence system would be established to collect, disseminate and analyze
news about supply, demand and prices in various market centers. Services
would be centered on each Development Centre Unit and coordinated by the
marketing section in Project Headquarters. Collection and dissemination
in the project area would be achieved through the Service Centers, while a
regular reporting system from major markets which could be supplied by proj-
ect production would be established in conjunction with MANR.
39.       In addition to supervising the information systems, the marketing
section at project headquarters would also have prime responsibility for
market and marketing development. Market development would include, for
example, exploring and expanding the possibilities of securing profitable
outlets through some form of contract growing for, inter alia, the feed indus-
try. It should also cover the identification of potentially profitable 'new'
crops, such as confectionary groundnuts, and provide commercial guidelines for
the research effort. Marketing development would be specifically aimed at
cutting costs or increasing values through such things as better crop handling
and storage techniques, contract processing, and the employment of a generally
more imaginative approach to marketing problems.



ANNEX 12
Page 12
G. Prices and Marketing of Maize, Sorghum and Cowpeas
Present Situation
40.       Traditionally Nigeria has been self sufficient in cereals other than
wheat. Sorghum and millet are the most important staple grains; consumption
of maize as grain occurs mainly in the southern and western states, although
this crop is now beginning to receive wider attention, particularly in the
North. Data on food production and consumption are inadequate and at best
provide only general indications of trends. Recent food crop production
figures underline however the significant role of the northern states as
cereal producers. Examination of other information 1/ indicates an insignificant
trade in food grains, other than wheat.
41.       The situation of apparent self sufficiency has recently changed into
one where shortages persist and are rather marked in some areas. Repeated
droughts and the effects of normal population changes have been compounded
by burgeoning urbanisation and income growth associated with economic recovery,
reconstruction and increased oil earnings. Consequently, food prices have
tended to increase steadily and in urban areas rose by 24% in 1970 and 21% in
1971. Some decline occurred in 1972 but the upward tendency returned in 1973.
Prior to recent sharp gains in world prices those in Nigeria were double US
farm prices for coarse grains, and three times world level for rice.
42.       The effect of long distances on distribution costs is increased by
bottlenecks in the transportation system; as a result the spread between
import and export parities (already exaggerated by a 40% import duty) is too
big to enable world conditions to have any significant effect on domestic
price formation. Furthermore, the fragmented nature of production and, to
a certain extent, demand, difficulties of communication combined with lack
of market intelligence, make it impossible to speak of a Nigerian market per
se. Instead there exists a mass of relatively small market areas which
appear to exert little or no influence upon those adjacent.
43.       Staple food marketing is almost exclusively confined to the private
sector although some official purchase, storage and distribution schemes are
run in efforts to relieve local shortages. A number of studies have concluded
that performance within the marketing system is rather efficient. This may
tend to mislead; while reported functional margins within study areas are low,
this cannot be taken as an indication of the efficiency of the system itself
in interpreting the needs of producers and consumers. Lack of cohesion between
market centers shows that it is the system which may be inadequate regardless
of any efficiency within it. While exploitive practices are probably being
curbed by competition in individual markets, there is no reason to suggest
that a similar conclusion may be drawn in any broader context. In fact the
reverse is likely to apply.
1/   FAO Commodity Balance work sheets and Food Balance Sheet for 1968/69
computed for NADC.



ANNEX 12
Page 13
44.       Lack of communication between markets may be illustrated by comparison
of officially reported monthly prices for sorghum at Daudawa and Zaria. These
markets are about 80 kilometers apart and connected by a full width tarmac road
and a railway, yet over a period of 42 months (up to July 1973), the price
between them varied by as much as N54.00 per ton. During the period, Zaria
prices were higher by an average of N26.47 per ton in 32 months and Daudawa
prices higher by an average of N30.00 in three months (no prices were reported
in one or other market for the remaining seven months). Moreover, monthly
price movements in the two markets were in opposite directions in sixteen
months. Prices within the markets varied substantially from month to month
with lowest prices not necessarily occurring around harvest. Standard deviation
from monthly mean prices was 24.03 in Daudawa and 19.76 in Zaria. A similar
situation was obtained for millet (Table 7).
45.       This erratic price behavior is indicative of the very thin markets
that are to be expected under present circumstances. Food grains have not
yet become an accepted cash crop, as such, and most grain storage takes place
at farm level. Sales are made to meet requirements not provided for by
'conventional' cash crops. Worthwhile market intelligence is unavailable and
price is extremely sensitive to slight changes in daily supply or demand. It
is not unknown for merchants to capitalise on this situation by attracting sup-
plies through paying high prices when offerings are limited, reducing them
sharply when the consequent increased supplies eventually reach tLhe market.
This type of operation is assisted by the absence of adequate feeder roads
which effectively discourage most farmers from refusing a low price and taking
their grain back home. The overall picture is thus one of a rather passive,
inelastic and poorly informed system, in which market risks are taken more by
the farmer and consumer than by the merchant.
H. Future Developments, 2Iarkets and Prices
46.       As part of the policy of improving production and marketing and to
prevent a chronic supply deficiency situation from arising, FMG is developing
a scheme for the establishment of strategic grain storage and is encouraging
State food production farms; some form of price support program is also con-
templated. Details have not yet been announced (January 1974) but clearly
this could usher in a completely new phase in Nigerian agriculture. Overall
pricing policies would have to be most carefully developed to match new pro-
duction techniques and ensure that capacity is most beneficially utilized.
Although the introduction of price support could go some way to overcoming
the inherent inelasticity of the food grain market, massive 'official' pro-
duction could at the same time inhibit or retard small holder development.
In this context, and particularly in the light of expected incremental maize
production from the Funtua, Gombe and Gusau projects (117,000 tons), the
evolution of the feed and starch industries will provide an increasing
'spillway' for surplus food grain output.



ANNEX 12
Page 14
47.       There are a number of projections for food demand and supply for
Nigeria of which "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and
Demand in Nigeria 1968-1985" is the most recent. The study is among the most
comprehensive, but the quality of the basic data is such that quoted figures
should be regarded as providing only indicative value. Demand projections
have been based on the 1968/69 food balance sheet which in itself has a number
of shortcomings. Growth of population is estimated at 3% annually and that of
per capita income 4%. Income elasticity of demand for maize, sorghum and
millet is estimated at 0.4, with cowpeas at 0.3. Food supply has been pro-
jected on the assumption that past (estimated) rates of growth will be main-
tained. These rates, and estimates derived from them, carry the same degree
of reliance as the relative estimates in the sample survey; projected surplus/
deficits should be regarded as broad orders of magnitude only (Table 8).
48.       Demand and supply for livestock feed have not been included in these
figures, nor has any provision been made for possible changes in diet (e.g. a
move away from sorghum to maize and/or wheat based products). About 45,000
tons of maize was fed commercially to livestock (mainly poultry) in 1971 and
the study aspects consumption increase fairly dramatically, reaching 106,000
tons in 1974, and over 375,000 tons in 1980. Demand has, however proved to be
rather more price elastic than anticipated and total production has remained
rather static in the face of sharp increases in raw materials costs. Unless
there is a significant and sustained reduction of prices relative to incomes
it seems unlikely that total 1980 demand for grain for (commercial) feed would
reach 65% of previously anticipated requirements.
49.       Comparison between demand and supply projections nevertheless reveals
a deficit for all crops except cowpeas. The surplus shown for this crop is
somewhat questionable: data are extremely fragmentary but the persistent
price trend indicates a shortage situation for the preferred varieties.
Demand also appears more elastic than for the staple grains which should
encourage steady increase in production. Although the projected deficiencies
are substantial it is important to differentiate between 'total demand' and
'effective market demand' when considering likely price developments.
Allowance must be made for the fact that despite current high prices, market-
able production and effective market demand are probably only very slightly
out of balance, when expressed in percentage terms. Any rapid increase in
marketed production without the benefit of a support program, could have a
dramatic effect on prices.
Maize and Sorghum
50.       In the north, maize is not yet an entirely acceptable dietary
substitute for either sorghum or millet. Research on this subject has been
markedly lacking, a most serious omission when the amount of production research
and development is considered. Limited subjective investigation revealed
marked differences of opinion and preference both as to the possible part of
maize in the diet and the most desirable color (White maize is preferred in
the south). Being harder than sorghum maize is unpopular to process, both by



ANWIEX 12
Page 15
hand and by machine.  The customary diesel powered light plate type provender
mill is not very suitable for maize and typical milling charges show a 30%
premium is required. Conversely, development of surplus production will be
relatively gradual, manufacturers are likely to continue keen, if not always
easily accessible buyers, and any periods of general food grain shortage should
tend to hasten the acceptance of 'new' tastes, particularly in urban areas.
51.       Although import substitution is a convenient peg from which to hang
price formulation for food grains produced as cash crops, such a calculation
can only provide a broad indication. In fact, import parity may reasonably
be taken as a long term ceiling price for any significant quantities; however,
in the event of serious shortages it is unlikely that the consumer would be
penalized to the extent of the 40% import duty now imposed.
52.       Consideration has been given to the following factors in estimating
maize and sorghum prices:
(i)  projected cost of imports;
(ii)  relative production costs (4:5 maize:sorghum);
(iii) the maize production encouragement that should be generated
by the starch and feed industries;
(iv)  the established place of sorghum in the diet;
(v)  relative inelasticity of market demand for food grains;
(vi)  probable field and storage losses that farmers would
suffer through dealing with grains on a far larger scale
than previously. There are expected to be greater in the
case of maize, because of relatively larger production and
longer storage periods.
53.       The low value volume ratio of maize and sorghum compared to cotton
or groundnuts will tend to limit the radius within which profitable marketing
may occur, this could contribute to possible price instability. Because so
little information exists from which to determine probably ultimate centers
of market demand, an arbitrary 400 mile 'import' trunk haul to wholesale
market has been assumed. It has also been assumed that this market would be
served by local producers within a radius of 150 miles, first assembly being
carried out at a service center or equivalent. Prices are estimated as
follows (see Table 9):
(N per metric ton)
Maize       Sorghum
Economic                    76.00         74.00
Financial                   86.00         90.00



ANNEX 12
Page 16
Cowpeas
54.       Owing to lack of data an arbitrary price has been taken in a known
major market center (Ibadan). This corresponds to the lowest post harvest
price for white cowpeas in recent years. Cowpeas are very susceptible to
pre and post harvest infestation, storage and fumigation procedures are in-
adequate at all levels so a 20% weight loss has been calculated. Prices
are estimated as follows (see Table 10):
(N per metric ton)
Economic                99.00
Financial               91.00
55.       In all calculations inland transport has been assumed to be by
road at rates quoted by local firms. On trunk routes rates for big articulated
vehicles or truck/trailer combines are fairly competitive with the railway
which is still heavily congested.
Cotton
56.       The projected incremental production of 70,000 tons seed cotton
(130,000 bales lint) from the Funtua (69,000 bales), Gombe and Gusau projects
represents only 0.2 percent of expected world consumption in 1980 and, even
if all exported, would have practically no impact on likely world trade.
A comprehensive survey of the local textile industry is presently being
carried out; however, it is provisionally estimated that 1980 requirements
will reach 400,000 bales lint or 210,000 tons seed cotton. Earlier demand
projections, as made by CSNRD, FAO and others over 1966-68 put probable
1980 demand at 680,000 bales.
57.       The local industry is emerging from a substantial shake out which
arose as a result of liberalization of imports in 1971, duties having now
been reimposed. 1/ Nevertheless, a number of factors adversely affecting
the originally anticipated rate of expansion still apply; these include:
(i) real income development combined with inflationary rise in
living costs has reduced the scope of textile demand. This
has been accentuated by the recent price rises in cotton
(and synthetic) products in line with world market changes;
(ii) the changing pattern of demand towards suiting materials,
generally synthetic based, in the emerging consumer generation;
(iii) the recent inability of the industry to satisfy the demand
for better cloths and textures;
(iv) competition from legal and illegal imports.
1/ Duties were removed in the 1971 budget in a successful attempt to curtail
profiteering by certain sections of the local industry.  Official statis-
tics show that as a result, recorded 1971 imports reached the equivalent
of 9 months normal total supply.



ANNEX 12
Page 17
58.       Existing techniques do not permit the spinning of high counts from
present cotton varieties and this section of total demand would continue to
have to be met by imports for the foreseeable future. The projected decline
in world cotton prices will also increase the pressure of imports on local
industry. However, given recent performance in the face of factors already
mentioned, the provisional total demand of 400,000 bales in 1980 maybe some-
what conservative.
COTTON LINT DELIVERIES TO NILLS
Year                              Delivered (Bales)
1969                                139,512
1970                                188,434
1971                               227,284
1972                                170,300
1973 (up to 30 September)           226,413
Source: Cotton & Agricultural Processors Ltd.
59.       With incremental production from the three projects totalling
70,000 tons, maintenance of recent production growth rates elsewhere would
result in a total crop of about 190,000 tons seed cotton in 1980. This is
equivalent to 370,000 bales lint, about 30,000 bales below anticipated demand.
All incremental production from the project area would thus be effective
import substitution.
60.       Investment in the seed crushing industry 1/ demands a seed supply of
around 120,000 tons, or the equivalent of 200,000 tons seed cotton after
allowing for provision of planting seed. Most of the output of this industry,
however, would be confined to the export-market; although there would be some
freight savings, and possibly slightly better oil recovery, the cotton-seed
price as a factor in producer price calculations is unlikely to improve
above levels for direct exports.
61.       The local textile industry needs to be oriented towards world
market levels if substantial subsidy and, or, penal import levels are to be
avoided. Conversely, during the past two years when higher producer taxes
were imposed, 'export parity' did not appear to provide sufficient inducement
to farmers who had a choice of cash crops. Consequently an extra charge of
2.5 K/Kg lint had to be made to spinners in order to permit producer prices
to be raised to incentive levels. This charge has now fallen away as a
consequence of the present very high world prices. (1973/74 season producer
prices are 13.2 K/Kg and 11.0 K/Kg for Grade I and II seed cotton respectively
1/   A total of 370,000 tons dual purpose (groundnut and cottonseed) crushing
capacity exists or is in course of construction in 4 northern states.
Total seed crushing capacity is estimated at 950,000 tons.



ANNEX 12
Page 18
62.       It is not envisaged that competition from other crops would lessen
over the project period; indeed, such competition may well increase parti-
cularly from cereals. Estimated farmgate prices for seed cotton are as
follows : (see Table 11)
Financial   N 203.00 per 1,000 Kg
Economic    N 268.00 per 1,000 Kg
Groundnuts
63.       Projected incremental production in the project areas (about
27,000 tons) would be less than the anticipated decline elsewhere if the
trend of the last decade is maintained. Indeed, if production is to meet
the capacity of local crushing facilities some 300,000 tons of increased
marketed output would be required. This would necessitate an overall pro-
duction growth rate in excess of 8% per annum. 1/
64.       Nigeria is the largest exporter of nuts and the third largeit
producer (after India and China). Servicing the needs of the local crushing
industry would have a dramatic effect on world export availabilities of whole
nuts. This is not however expected to have a similar effect on prices;
product values are far more influenced by availability and prices of competing
sources of protein and oils, such as soya beans, sunflowerseed etc. Although
the trend for protein feed prices is slightly upward, that for oil is static
to declining.  As a result, world prices for groundnuts are projected to
decline from recent levels. Since by far the greater part of the output of
the crushing industry would be exported, farmgate prices are expected to follow
the world trend.  Estimated farmgate prices are as follows:  (see Table 12)
Financial       N  93.00 per 1,000 Kg
Economic        N 129.00 per 1,000 Kg
1/ Domestic consumption as food is currently estimated at about 250,000 tons,
rising about 2.5% annually.



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-       Cotton Seed Requirements - Year 5 -    M. tons
FUN TUA                 G O M B E               G U S A U
Ile         II2/         I           II          I          II
Planted Area (ha)               99,050       99,050     60,800       60,800      49.,500     49,500
Seed Required-/                   2,773       8,000      1,702        5,000       1,386       4,000
Seed Cotton Production          59,712      59,712      36,840       36,840      22,995      22,995
Costs - N 1 ton
Delintin i/               16,638         -        10,212         -          8,316        -
Dressing0l                   -         56,ooo        -         35,000        -         28,000
Packaging)/ 6/              7,924       8,000       4,864       5,000       3,960       4,000
Distribution-             15,848       64,000       9,728      40,000       7,920      32,000
Initial Value of Seed7/   138,650     400,000      85,100     250,000      69,300     200,000
TOTAL                    179,060     528,000     109,904      330,000      89,496     264,000
Per Ton '-eed (N)       90.39        66.00      90.38        66.00       90.40       66.00
Per Ton  Seed Cotton(1H)   3.00       8.84        2.99        8.96        3.89       Ui.48
1/  I  = Acid delinted seed -    II = Fuzzy seed.
2/ I      Basis planting rate of 20 Kg delinted seed/ha, assuming 28 Kg undelinted seed required to
produce 20 Kg planting seed.
3/       Estimated N6.00 per ton basic seed.
/       Cost of chemical N6.00 and operating N1.00 per ton of seed dressed
&/  I    Estimated N4.00 per ton - II N1.00 per ton (average bag life 5 years)
I/    N8.00 per ton, national average.
7/        Basis cif Europe value $137 (1973 constant terms) = N90 less ft. and fob charges N22 and
railage, storage, etc., say N18 = N50.00 M.ton exginnery.
Iso
H M



ANNEX 1 2
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Marketing Costs (N it/ton)
Basis:  130,000 M. ton crop = 42,000 bales
National average ginning outturn = 34.5% & 1% waste
1 ton seed cotton = 345 kg lint
645 kg seed
Primary                                          I
LEA Allowance                              11.32
Produce inspection                          0.29
Bags and twine                              3.o6
Transport from markets                      4.92
Handling at Dumps                           1.28
Storage at Dumps                            0.29
Insurance                                   1.48
Finance                                    4. 43
NSMB overheads                              4.92
Contingencies                               0. 64
Total Primary Marketing                        32.63
Processing
Ginning and baling  1/ 1.18
ClassiPication                              0.28
Handling and storage                        1.16
Total Processing                               12.62
Railage to Port                                 7.45
Secondary
Harbour dues                                0.23
Lighterage                                  o.88
Wharfage                                    0.30
Shorehandling                               0.78
Storage                                     0.79
Checkweighing                              O°.5
Sundry                                      0.03
Sub-total                                3. o6
Total to FOB                                   55.76
NPMC Commission                             1.36
Insura ce                                   n.58
Sundrv CIF Expenses                         0.69
TOTAL to CIF less Freight                      58.39
LESS
Proceeds of sale of seed  2/               28.5b
Costs per ton Seed Cotton                  29.85
1/  Fees:  N 7 per bale rirst 200,000 bales;  N 4.33 per bale next, 100,000 bales
n 1.17 bale thereafter.  Classification fee N 50,000.
2/  basis projected value t 52.56 per 2,240 lbs.  cifC US (1974 consta.t
terns) N 51.64 exginnery.
Planting seed use assumed at average of 20 kg per 250 kg, all seed delinted
snr sold at cost of delinting.
Value of seed/ton of seed cotton
= 0.565 x 51.64 - o.o8 x 8
=29.18 - a.64
=   2 28.5A



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cot-on Production
1/
Ginning Capacity for Seed Cotton
Projected Seed Cotton Production              Lint Equivalent2/          Surplus (Deficit)
Year         Project Area         Remaining Area/Y          (Bales 181.4 Kg)           Capacity in Bales
m tons
0             24,000                 7,600                      61,000                    39,000
1             25,200                 7,700                      63,500                    36,500
2             31,500                 7,800                      75,800                    24,200
3             44,500                 7,900                     101,100                   ( 1,100)
4             55,800                 8,000                     123,100                   (23,100)
5             59.,700                8,100                     130,800                    (30,800)
1/  Ginneries, each of 50,000 bale capacity, are situated at Funtua and Malunnashi, the latter also
processes cotton grown outside the project area.
2/  Assuming average ginning percentage 35.
3/ Basis mean difference in production between project and ginnery area 1968-71.



ANNEX 1 2
Table 4
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Mlarketing Costs (N/m ton)
Primary
LBA allowance                                             9.35
Produce inspection                                        0.39
Bags, twine, etc.                                         5.97
Transport to depot                                        3.94
Handling.at depot                                         0.69
Storage at depot                                          1.28
Insurance                                                 0.14
Finance                                                   2.95
NSM'IB overhead                                           2. 46
Contingencies                                             0.54
Total Primary Marketing                        27.71
Railage to port                                          15.93
SecondarY
Harbour dues                                              0.67
Lighterage                                                2.55
Wharfage                                                  0.88
Shorehandling                                             2.25
Storage                                                   0.29
Checkweighing                                             0.15
Sundry                                                    0.12
Sub-total                                       6.91
Total  to fob                                  50-55
NP.:-C commission                                         3.94
Insurance                                                 0.53
Sundry ci' expenses                                       0.20
Total to cif less freight                      55.27



ANNEX 12
Table 5
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM SERVICE CENTER: LAYOUT AND PRODUCE FLOW
|i ,.- Double Gate
'         3 >~t s LBA Buyer
AREA FOR                                                        _   -         LBA Buyer                     To
*                   FUTURE                                          .      1          r      -----FU R E                   LBA Storage
DEVELOPMENT                                             Slore     2           LBA  Buyer                      Areas
(i ha)
3 hLBA Buyer
Il                                                                                    t
Security Fence            I   _, [Double Gate
iScale        IO 1 meters)
Store:                                                                                  n     =  Platform Scale
Capacity about 500 tons maime                                                           1     =  Service center store (see notes)
E + 625 m; 4m to eaves                                                                 2      =  Offices for supervision - Credit Staff
Roof to extend 3 meters                                                                 3     =  Plinth storage (each 10m x 20m)
to provide covered area                                                                 4     =  Kerosene insecticide store
for fixed platform scale.                                                                        Flow of statutory produce
Robertsridge or similar                                                                  ----   Path of farmers
roof ventilation.
2 double (3m) doors - 1 at end -
1 at side. Concrete base, rat
guarded.
Offices:
Lean to on side of shed,
windows overlooking buying
points. Credit assistant
seated to look outwards,
(like bank teller)                                                                                                World Bank-8222(3R)
, / !     ,,






ANNEX 12
Table 6
NIGERIA
NORTH CEM'RAS STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Ma.jor Food Crops 1969/70 and 1970/71 -
('000 m tons)
- - ------- Production-------------
Year                Year
Crop                                     1969/1970  j        1970/1971
Millet                                     3,070  !/           3,106   /
Sorghum                                    4,093  L/           4,053  4/
Maize                                      1,255   /           1,443  5/
Beans                                        885  6/             88   6/
Groundnut (in shell)                       1,292               1,581
Rice                                         282                 280
Yam                                        9,777              12,303
Cassava (old)                              4,219               5,224
1/ Source 'Rural Economic Survey' RES/3/1972.
j   Excluding East Central State.
1969/70     1970/7
3/  Of which:  NES                   17.0%        19.0%
NWS                   28.0%       25.0%
NEW                   27.0%       32.0%
Kano State            23.0%       15.6%
hi Of which:  NCS                    31.0%        24.0%
NWS                   22.0p       23.0%
NES                   18.0%       24.0%
Kano State            20.0%       20.0%
S/  Of which:  NCS                     5.0%        5.0%
NWS                    3.0%        4.0%
NES                   14.0%       14.Oc
West State            53.0%       43.0%
Kwara State            7.0%        9.0%
6/  Of which:  NCS                     9.0%        9.0%
NWS                   28.0%       29.0%
NES                   30.0%       30.0%
Kano State            21.0%       21.0%






AIGERIA
NORTH EMTRAL STATE
-FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Millet-Sorghum Prices: Zaria-Daudawa
JAN   FEB   MARCH   APRIL   MAY   JUNE   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV   DEC
1970
Millet        Zaria                 68    -       68      74      -     74      74    74      58     60    68    56
Daudawa               -     -      66      74      66    64      74    56      46     46    52    38
Sorghum       Zaria                  68    -      68      74      -     74      74    74      74     74    68    60
Daudawa               42    -      52      52      52   146      56    56      56     56    56    32
1971 
Millet        Zaria                  60    67     68      64      62    74      84    84      66     56    84    84
Daudawa               46    -       -      64     144    -       76    76      40     44    56    52
Sorghum      Zaria                  67    75     82      76      90    90      90    90      96     88    94    94
Daudawa               42    -      -      108     144    -       76    76      76     60    56    50
12Y2.
Millet         Zaria                 84   014    102    102      112   112      90    68      44      90   112   112
Daudawa               60    78      78     78      78    74      70    58      58      72    -     78
Sorghum        Zaria                 92   102    102    102      112   123      90    82      74      90    88   112
Daudawa               60    60      60     60      68    80      74    68      72      78    -     66
1973
Millet         Zaria                 94    94    125      89       -    179
Daudawa               68    68    108    101      134   184            NOT AVAILABLE
Sorghum        Zaria                102   102    123      89       -    168
Daudawa               82    82      97     93     119   119
Standard Deviation from Monthly Mean   Sorghum:  Zaria 19.76          Daudawa  24.03
Yillet:   Zaria 24.47       Daudawa  29.33
Source of Data - Crop, Weather Reports.
I'0>



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTIJA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Supply and Demand f or Selected Foodstuffs 1975-1985
('000 tons)
Year:                  -----------------1975--------------------                   --------------------1980                               ----___-__ 1985----------------
Population:           75,135,000                                                 87,526,000                                              102,456,000
Surplus/                                                Surplus/                                              Surplus/'
supply             Demand            (Deficit)             Supply            Demand          (Deficit)             supply           Demand         (Deficit)
Maize                                     982                1,034                  (52)              1,106             1,200               (94)             1,245            1,423             (178)
Present Growth Rate (% pa)                  2.4
------------------------------- ------ 3.69---_
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                        ------      ------------------ 4.18-----------
Millet                                  1,977                2,373                 (396)              2,027             2,755              (728)             2,078            3,267           (1,169)
Present Growth Rate                         0.5
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                                                -----------4.18-____-__
Sorghum                                 2,923                3,710                 (787)              2,879             4,308            (1,429)             2,836            5,108           (2,272)
Present Growth Rate                        -0.3
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                                                 ----------4.18- - _
Cowpeas                                   635                  510                 125                  838               574               264              1,105              660             445
Present Growth Rate                         5.7
------------2.61 -----
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                        -----------------------------------3.14-----------------------------------
Suggested Total Grain Shortfall                                                  1,235                                                    2,251                                               3,639
(i.e. maize, millet, Guinea corn)
Source of DEta: S.O. Olayide "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and Demand in Nigeria 1968-1985".



AlN=X 12
Table 9
WTGERIA
iNORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maize and Sorghum - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton)  1/
Maize                  Sorghum
Financial   Economic    Financial   Econanic
fob US Gulf  2/                              59.20       70.90         52.60        63.00
Ft. insurance  3/.9                                       9.90                       9.90
cif                                          69.10       80.80         62.50        72.90
Duty (40% of cif)                            27.60         -           25.00          -
Handling:  Port charges  0/                             1j00.o.oo      io           10.00
106.70      90.80         97.50        82.90
Inland transport  5/                         20.00       15.00         20.00        15.00
Wholesale market value                       126.70     105.80        117.50        97.90
Transport ,rom Service Center  6/            4L.00        3.00                       3.00
122.70     102.80        113.50        94.90
Local transport, storage, cost
o. bags                                     4.00        3.00          4.00         3.00
1=.8.70      99.80       109.50        91.90
Ilargins                                      10.00      10.00         10.00        10.00
108.70      89.80         99.50        81.90
Storage losses  7/                           16.30       L O000                      8.20
'Ceiling' value                              92.40       76.30         89.50        73.70
Production cost and 'pre°erence'
adjustment                                  6.oo
Estimated farmgate price (rounded)            86.oo      76.00         90200        7h.00
1/  Financial price bases N 1   $ 1.52.  Econoraic price basis N 1 = $ 1.27.
2/  Basis IBRD projected prices in 1974 constant terms, No. 2 US corn $ 90.00,
sorghnu $ 80.00 per metric ton.
3/  Basis charter tonnage (12-15,000 tons) a' USY 15.00 per ton (3,00o/l,000 fio).
4/ Including bagging.
5/ Average 400 miles at 5 kobo ton mile.
6/  Average 80 miles at  5   kobo ton mile.
7/ 15% for maize, 10% for sorghum.
July 31, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 10
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cowpeas - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton)
Financial           Economic
M-larket value southern area                165                165
Transport  1/                                23                  16
Value at first assembly                     142                149
Local transport                               4                   3
138                146
Margins, storage losses, 2/
bags, etc.                                 47                 47
Farmgate                                     91                  99
1/  Basis 4, kobo/ton mile.
2/  Losses in store are estimated at 20g of market value.
Intermediary margins are estimated at 10.00.



ANNEK 1 2
Table 11
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnuts - ?armgate Prices
(-N/metric ton)
Financial  1/       Economic  2/
fob Apapa   /                               156                 187
Export costs                                 -                   15
J4J                172
Railage                                       20                 15
121                157
Buying expenses                              28                  28
Market Price/Producer Price                   93                129
g/ Basis X 1 = $ 1.52.
2/ Basis N 1 = $ 1.27.
3/ IBRD projected 1980 price cif Europe, constant 1974 terms $ 267.00 less
ft. and insurance $ 30.00 - $ 237.06.
v  See Table 4 for detailed breakdown.
July 31, 1974



AI&X 12
Table 12
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Cotton - Economic and Producer Price Calculations 1/
(W/metric ton)
Financial         1conomic
fob Apapa  2/                              681                815
Export costs                                45                 45
636               770
Ginning and baling                          37                 35
Lint at gins                               599                735
Seed cotton                                207                254
Buying expenses                             33                 32
1.7h              222
Add value of seed                            29                46
203               268
Economic price                              -                 268
Producer price                             203
1/  Basis N 1   $ 1.27 and $ 1.52 respectively, 180,000 ton seed cotton
crop and improved marketing.
2/ Projected (IBRD) cif Europe price for Mexican SM 1-1/16", US$¢ 52 lb
1974 constant terms. Less 5% quality differential to NAIB with
¢ 2.25 ft. and insurance i.e. US¢ 47.15 per lb.
Basic Data from Table 2
July 31, 1974



ANNEX 13
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
1.        The annual costs and returns used in calculating the economic rate
of return are shown in Table 1.
2.        The following assumptions and methods have been used:
(a) At full development the area cropped in the five crops
tabulated is assumed to increase from 250,000 ha to 263,000 ha.
No value has been attributed to the additional land benefit
under cultivation and no costs included for land acquisition,
since this land would be fallow land allocated by traditional
rights of occupancy and use.
(b)  Project life is assumed as 25 years.  Most project development
activities will be completed by project year 5 (1979), so a
salvage value is added to benefits in project years 6 through
9 to account for those houses and buildings no longer required
by the project and transferred to other Government agencies.
(c) Incremental production of crops and values of production are
shown in Table 2. The Bank Economic Analysis and Projections
Division's projections for 1980 have been used as the basis
for estimating import substitution and export prices. Details
of estimates are shown in Annex 12.
(d) Incremental benefits acruing to investments from oxdrawn
equipment and tractors have been calculated (Schedules 1 and
2). The total benefits are offset against incremental labor
costs as shown in Table 3.
(e) Economic costs include adjustments for identifiable taxes,
and appropriate amendments to offshore costs to reflect a
shadow foreign exchange rate of US$ 1.27 per N 1.00. Incremental
farm labor (Table 2) required by improved cropping practices
has been estimated at the shadow price of N 0.40 per six-hour
day compared to the official minimum wage rate of N 0.6 for
the same working period. Economic costs do not include
project costs for water development, soil conservation and
project evaluation, as benefits from them are intangible
and cannot be calculated with any accuracy.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.        Using the above assumptions the economic rate of return is 41%.
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out on a number of variables, the
main comparison being between shadow rated and non shadow rated foreign
exchange. In each instance two cost streams have been used, one stream
comprising of project overhead costs and the other variable farm inputs.
The result of this analysis is shown below:
Internal Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
- ----- Incremental costs--         Incremental   Internal Rate of return X
overheads       Farm inputs /1        Benefits      Shadow FE rate Actual FE rate
-------------% Change-------
K                 K                   K                 41              32
K                 K                  -10                31              22
K                K                   -20                20              12
K                 K                  -30                 8
K                 K                  -40
K                 K                  -50
K                -10                 -10                37              28
K                -20                 -20                32              25
K                -30                 -30                28              21
K                -40                 -40                23              17
K                -50                 -50                18              12
+10               +10                  K                 32              23
+20               +20                  K                 24              16
+30               +30                  K                 17               8
+10               +10                 -10                22              14
+20               +20                 -10                14               6
+30               +30                 -10                 7
K- Constant
/1   Includes farm labor



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Returns
(N '000)
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Year 6         Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10        Year 11-25
Incremental Costs
Farm Inputs:
Fertilizer                                        341           850        1,966          3,229         4,227         4,227         4,227         4,227        4,227        4,227           4,227
Other Seasonal                                    128           418          922          1,384         1,678         1,678          1,678        1,678        1,678        1,678            1,678
Equipment                                          93           267          614            869         1,109            201           201          201          201          201              201
Vehicles, plant and equipment  1/                    763           383          341             194           105            39           141           67            96           96              96
Housing, building, labor and materials  2/         1,687         1,413        1,238             130           108          (378)         (159)          (31)         (23)         -               -
Salaries                                             691           983        1,261          1,286         1,090            957           844          769           720          720             720
Vehicle running operations  3/                       178           297          312            312            312           188            80           80            80           80              80
General Services                                     305           264          309            352            338           267           254          251           250          250             250
Contingencies at 5%                                  209           244          347            388           448            377           371          363          3b2           362             362
Total                                      4,395         5,119        7,310          8,144          9,415         7,556         7,637        7,605         7,591        7,614           7,614
Less taxes  4/                                       304           263          254             155           123            91            83            74           72           72              72
Costs adjusted for taxes                           4,091         4,856        7,056          7,989         9,292          7,465         7,554        7,531        7,519        7,542            7,542
Add net labor cost  5/                               159           103          631          1,306          1,725         1,453         1,439         1.411        1,369        1,313           1,313
Total                                      4,250         4,959        7,687           9,295        11,017         8,918         8,993        8,942         8,888        8,855           8,855
Add foreign exchange adjustment  6/                  390           486          798          1.024          1.245         1,014         1,020        1.008         1,012        1.012           1,012
Net Economic Costs                                 4,640         5,445        8,485         10,319         12,262         9,932        10,013        9,950         9,900        9,867           9,867
Incremental Benefits
Farm produce 7/                                      778         2,660        7,340         12,806         16,539        16,539        16,539       16,539        16,539       16,539          16,539
Seedfarm production                                    -           124          124            124            124           124           124           124          124          124             124
Net Economic Benefits                                778         2,784        7,464         12,930         16,663        16,663        16,663       16,663        16,663       16,663          16,663
Surplus or Deficit                                (3.862)       (2,661)      (1,021)         2,611         4.401          6,731         6.650        6.713        6X763        6.796            6,796
1/  Does not include replacement for road maintenance equipment (see ground services) excludes water and soil conservation costs.
2/  Excludes water and soil conservation costs, includes residual value of vacated staff houses from years 6-9
3/  Excludes water and soil conservation costs.
4/  Excludes farm inputs and other relevant contingencies.  Identifiable taxes on remainder approximately equals in
Year 1, 8.0%; Year 2, 7.5%; Year 3, 7.0%; Year 4, 6.5%, and thereafter 6.0%.
5/  See Table 2                                                                                                                                                                                        -3
6/  Shadow  foreign exchange N 1 = US$ 1.27 ?aS againSt actual N 1 = US$ 1.52),                                                                                                                          X
7/  See Table 2.
July 30, 1974



ANNEX 13
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Benefits
Year
2        3        4           5           6 - 25
Inuremental Production
Cotton     (MT)                1,107   79743    20,429   31,766       35,653      35,653
Sorghum    (MT)                3,750    (250)       (500)   4,000       6,900      6,900
Maize      (MT)                  -      3,162    12,875   36,125       61,250     61,250
Groundnuts (MT)                  720   1,680      5,760    8,040       12,120     12,120
Cow Peas   (MT)                1,115   1,475      1,815    2,165        2,580      2,580
Economic Value of Incremental
Production (N '000
Cotton      N 268/MT  /          297   2,075      5,475    8,513        9,555      9,555
Sorghum     N  74/MT              278     (18)       (37)     296         511         511
Maize       N  76/MT              -       240        979    2,746       4,655       4,655
Groundnuts  N 129/MT               93     217        743    1,037       1,563       1,563
Cow Peas    N  99/MT             110      146        180      214         255         255
TOTAL                     778   2,660      72340   12,806       16,539     16,539
L/ See Annex 12, Tables 9-12.
July 30, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Economic Costs and Benefits due to Incremental Farm Labor and Farm Equipment
Mandays '000                                         Before Project            Year 1       Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Year 6
Cotton
Cat. I       58 manday/ha                            5,011                 5,011          4,315         3,613           2,833           2,091          2,091
II      93 manday/ha                              301                    402          1,511         2,678          4,027            4,464          4,464
ITT     118 manday/ha                              106                    142            212           944          1,387            1,770          1,770
Sorghum
Cat. I       85 manday/ha                           10,200                 9,775          8,585          6,970          5,950           5,202          5,202
II      98 manday/ha                             -                       490            784         1,508          2,058            2,352          2,352
III     120 manday/ha                                                     -              120           240             480             720            720
Maize
Cat. I       94 manday/ha                              470                   470             588           705            588             470             470
II     116 manday/ha                              -                      -               87           406          1,160            2,320          2,320
III     130 manday/ha                              -                      -               26            195            650             975            975
Groundnuts
Cat. I       96 manday/ha                            3,120                 3,120          2,592          2,112          1,848           1,224           1,224
II     125 maniday/ha                             -                       94            563         1,406          1,875            2,813          2,813
Cowpeas
Cat. I       65 manday/ha                              247                    244            211           179            146              114            114
II      83 manday/ha                              -                      104            145           187             228             270            270
Total mandays '000                                     19,455                 19,852         19,739        21,203         23,230           24,785         24,785
Incremental mandays '000                                  -                      397            284         1,748          3,775            5,330          5,330
Value of incremental labor /+  o000                                              159            114           699           1,510           2,132          2,132
Labor saving due to Farm Equipment N '000
(a)  Ox-drawn equipment  2/                                                  -                11            54            162             323             539
(b)  Tractor equipment  37                                                   -               -              14             42               84            140
Total Savings                                                                    -               11            68             204             407            679
Net Labor cost to Project N '000                                                 159            103           631           1306            1725           1453
1/ At N 0.4 per manday
2/  See Schedule 1, N 53.9 per ox unit  allow one year slippage - benefits phased out by end of Year 15.
3/  Minimum saving of N 1,400 per tractor per annum - allow one year slippage - benefits phased out by end of Year 10.                                                    eM






ANNEX 13
Schedule 1
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Farmers using Work Oxen
1.        Work oxen are traditionally used in land preparation work in northern
Nigeria. At present insufficient and poor quality equipment limits the amount
of land preparation done by oxen.
2.        Farmers owning work oxen would be able, through the project to obtain
credit for the purchase of ox-drawn equipment, including a plow, a ridger, and
a cart.
3.        The one-ha budgets for all the major crops show a heavy utilization
of labor for land preparation. In the one-ha maize budget, cultivation costs
using hand-labor are estimated to be between N 30.40 and N 34.80 dependent
on crop yields. This cost represents between 456 and 522 hours per ha assuming
a labor cost of N 0.066 per man-hour.
Benefits
4.        The use of oxen would result in considerable savings in labor as
demonstrated below:
A.  Ox Time per Operating using 2 ox-teams
Plowing                 30 hours/ha
Cultivating             10 hours/ha
Ridging                 15 hours/ha
Total             55 hours/ha
B.   Area of Cultivation achievable per ox-team per annum: 4 ha
C.   Costs per ox-team
Oxen upkeep             N 14.0 p.a.
Ox depreciation           20.0 p.a.
Subtotal     N 34.0
Cost per ha             N  8.5
Labor cost per ha:
- using 1 driver plus
1 laborer    N 11.0
Total cost per ha  N 19.5
Total cost per
using hand-labor N 33.0



ANNEX 13
Schedule 1
D.  Saving in cost: At N 0.066/hour, this represents a
saving of 204 hours/ha
Total savings 4 ha - N 53.9



ANNEX 13
Schedule 2
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Tractor Users
Tractors
1.        The Government operates a very uneconomic tractor hire unit within
the project area.
2.        Loan would be made available under the project to larger farmers
for tractors and equipment for use on their own farms and to individuals who
would provide contract tractor services.
3.        A farmer or contract tractor operator would be expected to provide
30% of the total cost of a tractor unit.
4.        A tractor unit would include:  a 65hp tractor, a chisel plow, a
fidger, and a trailer. The total cost is estimate at N 6,000. The farmer
or contract tractor operator would provide N 1,800 in cash and a loan of
N 4,200 would be made available.
Tractor Benefits
5.        Savings in labor can be calculated as follows:  Estimated hours
of hand labor cultivation required on one ha of maize to achieve a yield of
3,000 kg = 500 hours. Estimated tractor hours required to prepare 1 ha land
for maize: Plowing 2.5 hours; Cultivating 2.75 hours; Ridging 1.25 hours;
Weeding 3.50 hours; total 10.00 hours.
Tractor costs are estimated as follows:
Actual Cost    Economic Cost
Fuel                               N 0.30/hour    N 0.10/hour
Driver                               0.20/hour       0.20/hour
Repairs                              1.00/hour       1.00/hour
N 1.50          N 1.30
Add:  Depreciation              N 1.00              -
Total hourly cost                N 2.50/hour    N 1.30
Total economic cost for land preparation for maize per ha = 10 x 1.3
Saving shown by tractor per ha = N 20.0                      = N 13.0
Minimum ha required to justify tractor = 70 ha
Annual minimum savings per tractor = N 1,400






[BRD 1049R
N                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 1973
NIGERIA
NORTH CENTRAL STATE                                                                                                   T. Y- T-. 
FUNTUA AGRICULTURAL                                               <                                  I                  =r
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              T-,
Pro-ect Headquarters                                                              I -                                                        I
Prolent Bouedarpy                                                                                                                            I 
-  -   Proposed  Agricultural Rorads                                                          -                                                      I                                    Sot/
a     De)-iopeent Unit Centers -                                                          a-
D  Dep-t Jrt B-nd-res                                       _Da  Sabo                                                                         T,ge  ,ur
A      Seed Multipliction Faces and Training Centers                   k                                                                                                                            NJ _  r- / ,.
E-shiNg Bitieen Roaids            Store                         T                               ' rANKARA'                    / N 
E-istiog All Wothaer Graciv Roads M..ntanedj                                                              e   L- Ketare  - n
E-st sg Agririltural Tracks                 |                                                              /                                                 r
Ma -raised By Locl AutSorry  y                                                                                               '
20 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Eailvtae                                                                i              I       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI-T
Ta Gussu                                                  Mabai~~~~~~~Gc~   K1,
lOx-.....*.FNp, ...........}\,                                    /    ........... r,\t .g 
ks A                             s, Ns                                                                       f                 Tobo49  0\
I, _ _                                                                                                                      MALUM*FASHI  < ! p T Zrlo         x_ <     >\ Nl        _ _c 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 4 ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~\                                                                    I      I\q Kaa/~s  r>rcT,   q>;   snoUd,;
_N                       -2            /                                                                                                                            /           s'                Kira   o         *S   Us
S.            -°5Bone                            r         Gua,                                    -i    2 0 t   ,f           >'              *r f zrA/kER0 
~~r4toskur  i           N                                                         Rooun/      \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    --~K
-             C       ¶~~~    I       r-' /        i*\               Kacrrooly Sanyic!      \ ~~~~~~~~~~~    '   Ri1oii/-~~~~~<    J\K~~.jiraNcta>)-T~
- /   N -N~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                                        I ~~~ FU/
L                                          /
~~'            2t14'               «~>~~»            ~                                      ,irjssu~r                     I   c-k.9
14   -
T~~~ B    G..,                                            -AA.~~j            B          4~
5 GeneSis /  I  /           -I  E    I 
0   5                  1on       20
F-  7~~~'~~.nDoCAEai\
KIL/OMETERS        -'     0        t~






IBRD  10486R
4-                   '>    *                             1                           IIJ                         12-
~C H AD
I_      -~~~~~~~ +\~~~~~ 0 ~~~       N       I    G       E      R-ht                                                       \
K   A   N, 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 
F XT 15 ~~~~~~ 0NOTH    WeT srE r N                                                           K N  C 0  V )R t,H  -E Ak s T E R Nh||; 
N., 0  R T.,:.H ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~       N
DA HOME  tY1    /   
10-                                                                       R gi  ~r gE>Ilorin  \   rl g    B E N U E - P L A T E A U  j SX           NIGER
I0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
%   o4/  'l   ~~~~~~~ iP   =)   t                               et~~~~~'\                  / ~AGRICULTURAl DEVELOPM\IENT PROJECTS
E NUE PLAT             U                                             PROJECT   AREAS 
+   '  W   ( I__ r          \ S)      /                  h       !                _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NorterBn Inmi.t °/ SOin°oUterrn rootecal°nonnomny
20 0Afi 5 tC-/s C; = At T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IogRX<\,--teotlel bocodories
G t/ g F   O F  G S0! N F SA  ; |   0 A  092/  /             rNIGERIANIGERI
~~~~~~~~
en Ot                                                                  0 2000   000  R  0n  ' l  r CX   D  10-  POE   DECEMBER 1S73



