TOCFFTAL        LOAN NUMBER 2025 SE
Gu~a.tee Agreement
(SEFICS Rall Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR kECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2025 SE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated f LtZV\   IA e- 30 , 1981, between REPUBLIC
of SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries
Chimigues du SAn6gal (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank
has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million three hundred thousand dollars
($19,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Construction, operation and maintenance
of the water supply system
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices, the construction,
operation and maintenance of a water supply system to provide.2
water in sufficient quantity for the Industrial Complex at Darou
Khoudoss and shall provi62, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets. (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its
agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions or any
institution which may be established to perform the functions
of a central bank exclusively for the Guarantor to take, any
action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement
and will take all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to provide as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such provision, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.04. For the execution of Part A of the Project, the
Guarantor shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1982, provide
RCFS with not less than one hundred million CFA Francs (CFAF
100,000,000) by way of capital grant; and (b) not later than
August 31, 1983, provide RCFS by way of capital grant with the
balance, if any, of the funds required for the purpose.
Section 4.05. The Guarantor shall ensure that no amendments
to the operating and safety regulations applicable to the
Borrower's railway traffic are made without the prior approval of
the Bank.


﻿-4-
Section 4.06. In the event that RCFS is unable to meet
its obligations pursuant to Sections 2.01, 3.01, 3.02 and 3.03 of
the Shareholders' Agreement, the Guarantor shall promptly provide
or cause to be provided to RCFS such funds as are required by
it to meet such obligations.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Guarantor responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere de 1'Economie et
des Finances
Rue Charles Latne
Bolte Postale 4017
)akar, Senegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                         512
Dakar                               TRESOR SG
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D,C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By)/                 .   MA   V          c
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -        day of 4,. 198L...


