Report No. PIC4844
Project Name              Bolivia-Public Financial Decentralization...
and Accountability Project
Region                    Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                    Public Sector Management
Project ID                BOPE40110
Borrower                  Ministry of Finance - Bolivia
Beneficiaries             Decentralized and centralized public sector
agencies/institutions in Bolivia
Financing Plan
IDA:                      $13.3 mn.      GOB:   $4.0 in.
o/w: foreign costs:        $7.0 mn.
Local costs:               $6.3 mn.              $4.0 in.
Implementing Agency:      1.  Comptroller General's Office
Mr. Marcelo Zalles, Contralor General
Contraloria General de la RepEblica
Edificio Contraloria - Piso 5
Esquina Calles Indaburo y ColAn
La Paz, Bolivia
Phone: 591 2 378-861      Fax: 591 2 392-187
2. Ministry of Finance
Secretaria de Hacienda
Mr. Gonzalo Afcha, Secretary of Finance
Calle Bolivar No. 658, esq. Indaburo
Ministerio de Hacienda
Phone: 591 2 379-240      Fax: 591 2 376-903
Projected Board Date:    July 10, 1997
1.        Country and Sector Background.    Following the hyper-
inflationary period of the early 1980s and subsequent stabilization
policies, Bolivia underwent a period of moderate growth during the 1990s
followed by recent reform efforts to promote the private sector,
regulatory reform, and modify the role of the state. The primary
reforms in this regard, surround the current capitalization program
which is envisioned to transfer public enterprises to private ownership,
while increasing the overall stock of savings in the country through the
reformed pension system being developed. While recent fragility
reflected in a lack of adequate capital in some financial institutions
in the banking system was experienced in 1995, prompt corrective actions
have been taken to avoid any major spillover effects into the financial
sector.
2.        During the early reform years in the late 1980s, a major step
in modernizing the role of the state, was the passage of the Law of
Financial Administration and Control Systems (SAFCO) which provided a
mandate for a normative framework for the management of public finances.
The SAFCO Law was implemented with support from an IDA project
cofinanced with USAID and IDB, followed by a Public Financial Management
project funded by IDA, under which the normative regulations and



integrated financial management systems were developed at the central
government level. The central theme of the SAFCO law was to achieve
enhanced accountability and institutionalization of modernized financial
management and control processes to improve economic management by the
various public entities. The first project mainly set up the normative
framework for these new systems and strengthened the tax administration
function. The second project began implementation of the computerized
integrated financial information systems in the central government. The
Comptroller General's Office had the task of auditing the financial
management performance of such entities, in line with the enacted SAFCO
Law. Under the second Public Financial Management Operation, the
Comptroller General established itself as one of the most rigorous and
competent supreme audit institutions in the region, and played a
valuable role in ensuring the effective audit of public agencies and the
quality reviews of audits performed by private firms for public sector
entities. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance began
implementation of an integrated financial management and information
system (IFMS) across the centralized entities in the public sector.
This IFMS system now covers the functions and procedural norms for
implementing and monitoring budgeting, accounting, treasury, cash
management, revenue collection, and debt transactions, but does not yet
cover all ministries.
3.        The current environment of privatization, including the
transfer of public enterprises to competitive-driven private sector
ownership and to the public at large, coupled with the decentralization
of financial management and the transfer of government funds under the
Public Participation Law presents the government with new institutional
challenges. This highlights the importance of a sound and enforceable
system of financial and operational accountability in the public sector
and assurances of adequate private sector audit systems, which will be
of greater necessity in the future. In order to continue strengthening
the public sector's effective use of financial resources and track
public entities' performance results, a strong normative and oversight
function will be required to monitor the level of administrative and
financial management, the prudential use of public funds, and the
accountability by implementing institutions, as part of a modernized
state role. The proposed Public Financial Decentralization &
Accountability Project seeks to ensure that the progress achieved in
implementing the reforms and IFMS under the SAFCO Law as well as the
quality of the public auditing function achieved to date, is sustained
as an integral financial management and control function which will
promote cost-effective delivery of public services.
4.        Project Objectives.    The objective of the project is to (a)
implement uniform, professional accounting and auditing standards across
the public sector (including the recently decentralized municipalities
and regional governments) to conform to generally accepted International
Accounting and Auditing Standards adapted to the realities and needs of
Bolivia, and (b) implement integrated financial management systems under
the decentralized 'Prefecture' institutions and municipalities, which
will link into the national budget via the currently operating central
IFMS network. The audit components will include implementation of
monitoring and corrective measures to be enforced by the Comptroller
General's Office in order to meet SAFCO Law objectives in the management
- 2 -



of public finances and execution of public investments. In comparison
with prior projects financed by IDA in this area, this project
emphasizes the key financial oversight role of the Comptroller General's
Office (exclusively in an independent audit capacity) to instill proper
financial management practices in public agencies, and disseminate best-
practice implementation and auditing capabilities in both the public and
private sector.
5.        In the Audit/Comptroller's area, expected results by the end
of the project, would be to have in place: (i) a fully trained, staffed
and equipped Comptroller General with the capacity to audit on a regular
basis, the finances and operations of all public entities in the
centralized public sector, (ii) a network of decentralized audit offices
in the decentralized sectors, which would liaise with the national
Comptroller's General's Office to enforce audit and accountability
norms, while conducting its own decentralized audit operations of public
sector entities, (iii) an audit quality evaluation system through which
the Comptroller General would assess the audit quality of private sector
audit firms conducting audits of public enterprises, in order to ensure
acceptable standards in the audit profession, including training as
needed for their staff, (iv) the strengthening (with the assistance of
the Comptroller General's Office) of internal audit operations within
public agencies at the centralized level and decentralized
municipalities and regional governments, (v) a program to develop anti-
corruption/forensic auditing techniques and their implementation, and
(vi) a national audit and accounting training program to increase
competent public and private sector professionals in those fields.
6.        The financial management systems component under the Ministry
of Finance's purview, would ensure the (i) adaptation of the central
IFMS to the Prefectures and Municipalities, including design elements to
adapt to regional accounting and reporting needs, (ii) the establishment
of a nationwide network to enable regional administrations to report
financial information for budget consolidation at the national level,
(iii) management of the new regional investment funds with adequate
financial controls and investment monitoring tools, and (iv) adequate
cash transfer mechanisms with appropriate controls to assure efficient
execution of publicly funded programs.
7.        Project Description.   Total project costs financed by IDA
would amount to $13.3 million. In the Comptroller General's/Public
Audit area, the project has 4 major components totaling $7.3 million,
covering a number of subcomponents designed to meet the above-mentioned
objectives. These will be utilized to strengthen the Comptroller
General's office to carry out its financial, operational, & oversight
audit functions, and to maintain an adequately trained professional
capacity for this purpose. Funding will also be utilized to provide
technical assistance to regional sub-Comptrollers so as to implement
auditing provisions required under the Decentralization Law, as well as
to set up internal audit units in the public sector at large. An anti-
corruption/forensic auditing capacity building program will be initiated
along with the promotion of public sector ethics and transparency in the
dissemination of public financial records.    Finally, for the
Comptroller's component of the Credit will be also utilized to
strengthen nationwide training programs in financial management,
-3 -



accounting and auditing in the public sector, as well as to set up a
sustainable professional program in the areas of Public Financial
Management and Government Auditing/Accountancy and to build-up private
sector capacity. The project would contain specific sub-components
which would be designed to meet the above-mentioned objectives. These
would consist of a combination of institution building activities,
training, and technical assistance to transfer best practice techniques
and begin implementation throughout the public sector, coordinated by
the Comptroller General's Office, as described below.
8.        Within the Comptroller General's component, the sub-components
to be carried out via training and technical assistance, would include:
(i) strengthening procedures to evaluate audit operations of private
sector auditing firms in Bolivia, (ii) setting up audit procedures and
conducting of audits of the public sector's procurement and purchasing
systems, (iii) setting up institutional capability to conduct long term
audits to evaluate the functionality, internal controls, and linkages
with the SAFCO Law corresponding to the public financial systems of
budgeting, treasury, cash management, and accounting, as administered by
the Ministry of Finance, (iv) developing the capability for conducting
audits of information technology systems linked to public financial
management, in order to execute the above-mentioned functions and to
conduct such information system audits, (v) developing and carrying out
performance audits for environmental operations, (vi) development and
training in techniques of forensic auditing (i.e.: for detecting misuse
of funds), and (vii) development and training in auditing techniques for
evaluating performance of operational (vs. financial) activities. Also
under the Comptroller General's component , activities would include:
evaluating and auditing the systems utilized for the budgetary
distribution of public resources to regional governments and
municipalities, and the use of such resources as mandated under the
Decentralization and Popular Participation Laws, performing operational
audits on the execution of priority public investment programs, and
developing a technical assistance program so that the Comptroller
General may institute audit functions within the regional governments
and municipalities in the decentralized sector, including the
development of internal auditors. Other project activities for the CG
would cover training and institutional support in order to augment the
technical/professional level in financial management, accounting and
auditing in the public and private sectors, strengthening and
implementing the internal audit capacity of public agencies and
entities, and ensuring sustainability in a national professional program
in Financial Management and Auditing.
9.        For the Ministry of Finance area, the project the components
would total $6.0 million. It is estimated that for this, project funds
would be deployed for providing institutional support from the Ministry
to the regional administrations to implement institutional IFMS systems
tailored to specific decentralized public agencies and operations.
Project funds would be utilized for ensuring integration of new
financial management systems across the public sector by setting up
telecommunications links and security procedures to transmit aggregate
financial data from decentralized and centralized systems to the
Ministry's national reporting system. Funds would also be utilized to
adapt both regional and central IFMS systems to ensure that
- 4 -



decentralized financial management is adequately supported by budget
transaction and payment mechanisms which optimize the timely delivery of
budget resources and promote accountability at the operational level.
These above components would be implemented via technical consultant
resources, information technology, and management/coordination support
which would finance the respective sub-components as delineated below.
10.       Within the Ministry of Finance's components, the project sub-
components would include: (i) providing technical assistance support to
the regional government prefectures, to set up and implement IFMS
systems for their regional operations including investment management,
and (ii) providing institutional support to the municipal governments to
implement adequate municipal IFMS systems (budgetary, treasury
management, reporting, and accounting). Under these components, tasks
would include integrating the decentralized IFMS systems into a national
network for national financial reporting (covering accounting &
budgeting), via telecommunications links to obtain aggregated financial
data from decentralized agencies and regional administrations, and
adapting the centralized sector financial management systems to allow
for real-time on-line financial data transfer capabilities for national
financial reporting purposes. For the Ministry of Finance's work, the
project would include setting up fund transfer links and appropriate
security controls with the commercial banking sector, as a mechanism for
transferring budget resources from the central government to
decentralized entities, developing IFMS capabilities in the centralized
and decentralized sectors so that budget expenditure transactions can be
entered directly by public sector executing agencies via electronic
voucher procedures, thus allowing more real-time budget availability and
expenditure reporting at the national level, implementing appropriate
financial mechanisms to ensure that the decentralized financial
management systems cover the public investment, budgeting, and
investment fund procedures implied by the Popular Participation and
Decentralization Laws, and implementing comprehensive project accounting
systems for projects under externally funded programs financed by
multilateral/bilateral institutions, for all public sector agencies
involved in executing these (e.g.: for proper financial management and
accounting for IDA projects to meet audit requirements).
11.       Project Financing.    The Credit would finance US$ 13.3 million
equivalent over a period of 4 years out of total project costs of US
$20.0 million.  Project costs to be financed would include 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures, 100% of after tax local expenditures, and
would cover technical assistance consulting services, training, computer
equipment, and specified operating costs. Counterpart government
funding of US$ 4.0 million would finance remaining costs covering local
expenditures.
-5-



Procurement would follow standard IDA review procedures
including allowable prior review thresholds for goods and consultants, as
per IDA operating guidelines. The project would be expected to be
completed by end-2001, and the closing date would be June 30, 2002.
12.       Project Implementation.    The Ministry of Finance would be the
borrower of the IDA Credit, and the two implementing agencies for the
project as mentioned above, would be the Comptroller General and the
Ministry of Finance. The two agencies would be responsible for all
elements of project execution, and it is expected that as part of
project monitoring conditions, each agency would require to maintain
sub-component records of expenditures, with respect to technical
assistance including that provided to regional sub-comptrollers,
prefecture offices and municipalities, in order to implement auditing
and financial management systems and procedures within the decentralized
framework. Performance would be measured against indicators reflecting
the accomplishments of the various institution-building goals as
delineated under the project description section above, the execution of
public sector audits in key priority areas covering both financial and
operational audits, and the verifiable implementation of IFMS systems in
the regional administrations, with fund transfer and expenditure
reporting links to the central financial management system.
13.       Project Sustainability.    The project seeks to encourage the
institutionalization of rigorous public sector auditing and accounting
methods through an intensive institution-building effort in the
Comptroller General's office which has already reached some of the
highest quality standards in the region, and through the training of
local Comptroller's staff in state-of-the art auditing and financial
control techniques. It also seeks to ensure that the decentralized
regional administrations under the new public sector framework have
adequate modernized financial management systems which are integrated
functionally (i.e.: budget, cash management, and accounting) as well as
across the overall public sector for national financial reporting
purposes. Building on the successful effort by the Comptroller General
by deploying foreign experts to train, tutor, and mentor national audit
professionals, the project would seek to assure sustainability by
requiring that local budget resources be available to sustain the
funding of local staff once these were trained with the help of external
expertise. The Comptroller General is committed to this strategy to
avoid often used financing of line positions in the public sector, and
instead has given full priority for the use of such project resources to
significantly strengthen institutional capacity of the Comptroller
General's Office and related public sector functions under an in-depth,
short term transitional program. This would also be consistent with one
of the objectives being pursued under the Civil Service Reform project,
in terms of the optimal use of external resources for financing
technical advisory or training experts under project consultancies. The
Ministry of Finance's successful completion of IFMS systems in the
centralized sector would provide the decentralized regional
administrations with a reliable source of internal technical assistance
to set up, test, and integrate financial management information systems
throughout the public sector.
14.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.   A major role has been played
- 6 -



by IDA in helping initiate the financial management public sector
modernization process in Bolivia. Under the first IDA financed project,
a key milestone was achieved with the passage of the comprehensive SAFCO
Law which set the operational and policy framework for modernizing
public financial management and auditing processes. IDA financed the
greatest part of the second project which started actual implementation
in the centralized sector of computerized IFMS systems which began
providing more transparency and organization to Bolivia's public
finances and their reporting. A new challenge is now presented under
Bolivia's recently approved decentralized public structure, which will
require similar financial management and auditing systems to be in place
in the regional governments to ensure a smooth transition in this reform
process. Given IDA's prior involvement in the design and oversight of
these activities, it has a comparative advantage in ensuring that this
new program maintains continuity and technical internal consistency with
the work already undertaken at the centralized sector level. While some
setbacks occurred in the IFMS implementation stage at the central level,
these are being corrected following a restructuring of the project
unit's organization and technical staff. However, the investment made
in these activities so far, is relatively minor when compared to the
cost of IFMS systems implemented in individual institutions or companies
in the U.S. and Europe. If the most recent project successfully meets
its major targets, the investment expended for systems implemented
throughout the central government, will have been extremely cost-
effective in relation to private industry standards.
15.       Environmental Aspects.   The project will not present any
environmental risks, and will support the development and execution of
ex-post audits for environment-related operations in the public sector.
16.       Program Objective Categories.    The program objective category
for this project is Economic Management.
17.       Project Benefits.   The project would provide timely input and
technical assistance during the Government's transition process to a
decentralized/regional government structure. Given the dearth of
financial management capabilities in the decentralized, municipal, and
rural sectors, the project's institution-building work would assist in
implementing modernized technology supported systems along with the
requisite financial management and control methodologies, to ensure
transparent reporting and organization of public expenditure priorities
and their execution. The strengthening of the independent auditing
functions in the Comptroller General's office, would instill in this
process, an assurance of accountability which would be systematically
and periodically monitored via the central level and decentralized
public audit offices. While at a first level, the beneficiaries of the
project would be all public sector entities and institutions, at a
larger level, the main beneficiaries would be the Bolivian population,
and especially the taxpayers, given that the use of public funds would
be managed using more robust financial planning, management, and
execution systems at most levels of government. The simultaneous
strengthening of the national audit function would provide
sustainability to these efforts and install a permanent mechanism for
internal monitoring once the project ended.
- 7-



Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 8 -



