Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N033-BO
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Decentralization and Accountability Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated August 19, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N033-BO 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the  Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
On July 20, 1990 the National Congress of the Borrower passed Law No. 
1178, Ley del Sistema de Administración, Fiscalización y Control Gubernamental (the 
SAFCO Law) which, together with its regulations, sets forth the general rules for the 
Borrower’s administration, monitoring and control system;  and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement. 
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively.
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
"15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by the 
Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved pursuant to 
Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries.".
(d)The last sentence 
of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.". 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
Page  3
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administrative Decentralization Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1654 
of July 28, 1995;
(b)
"CG" means Contraloría General, the Borrower's Comptroller General's 
Office;
(c)
"Decentralized Entities" means any national autonomous or semi-autonomous 
entity of the Borrower, including social security funds, other than the 
municipalities;
(d)
"Executing Agency" means any Public Sector Entity (as hereinafter 
defined) that has entered into a Technical Cooperation Arrangement (as hereinafter 
defined);
(e)
"Implementation Plan" means the plan for the implementation of the 
Project set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Administrator of even date 
herewith;
(f)
"MDH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(g)
"Municipalities Organic Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 696 of January 
10, 1985;
(h)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to monitor the progress of 
the Project and the achievement of its objectives, set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Administrator of even date herewith;
(i)
"Popular Participation Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1551 of April 
20, 1994;
(j)
"Prefectures" means any of the departmental administrations in the 
territory of the Borrower;
(k)
"Project Coordinating Units" means the Project coordinating units 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to a of letter from the 
Administrator dated May 12, 1997, countersigned by the Borrower on June 13, 1997;
(m)
"Public Sector Entity" means any department or agency of the Borrower, 
(including the Decentralized Entities and the Prefectures) and the Selected 
Municipalities (as hereinafter defined);
(n)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Selected Municipalities" means the autonomous municipal governments in 
the territory of the Borrower referred to in paragraph 1.3 of the Annex to the letter 
referred to in (e) and (h) above;
(p)
"Special Account" means collectively Special Accounts A and B (as 
hereinafter defined);
(q)
"Special Account A" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i);
(r)
"Special Account B" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii);
(s)
"Subsidiary Agreements" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Technical Cooperation Arrangement" means any of the arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a); and
Page  4
(u)
"Telecommunications Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of: (i) Parts A, B, C, D and E 
of the Project; and (ii) Parts F, G, H and I of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, in the Borrower’s central bank, separate special deposit accounts on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled. Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002 or such 
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2008 and ending July 1, 
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
Page  5
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, through MDH; and (ii) Parts F, G, H 
and I of the Project through CG, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial and accounting practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan and the 
Operational Manual, with due regard to the Performance Indicators.
(c)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Executing Agencies to participate in the 
carrying out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project; and 
(ii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the participation of the Executing Agencies in the 
carrying out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
Page  6
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through MDH, shall enter into technical 
cooperation arrangements with any Public Sector Entity interested in participating in 
the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, establishing terms and 
conditions for such participation, satisfactory to the Administrator, including, inter 
alia:
(i)
appropriate provisions for the operation and maintenance, in 
accordance with adequate technical standards, of the informatic 
equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
and the training of the respective Public Sector Entity's 
personnel; and
(ii)
provisions whereby MDH may suspend the participation of the 
respective Entity in any case of non-compliance by such Entity 
under the corresponding arrangements. 
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with a telecommunications 
services provider, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, for 
the purposes of the operation and maintenance, in accordance with adequate technical 
standards, of the communications infrastructure required for the functioning of the 
information systems financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements with MDH and CG providing for 
the transfer to MDH and CG of part of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit for the 
purposes of the implementation of: (i) Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project by MDH; 
and (ii) Parts F, G, H and I of the Project by CG, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Technical Cooperation 
Arrangements in such a manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project. (e)
The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Telecommunications Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Administrator, and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, suspend, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the 
Telecommunications Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish, not later than one month after 
the Effective Date, and maintain, at all times until completion of the Project, two 
Project coordinating units, one within MDH (with respect to Parts A, B, C, D and E of 
the Project) and other within CG (with respect to Parts F, G, H and I of the Project), 
both with the following functions and responsibilities:
(i)
conducting the overall planning and monitoring of their respective 
Parts of the Project;
(ii)
preparing the reports referred to in Sections 3.07 and 3.08 (b) of 
this Agreement for their respective Parts of the Project;
(iii)
undertaking the procurement of the goods and consultants' services 
required for their respective Parts of the Project; and
(iv)
administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit and related records, accounts and audits for their 
respective Parts of the Project, all pursuant to the provisions of 
this Agreement. 
(b)
For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project Coordinating Units are, at all times during the execution of the Project, 
headed by technical directors assisted by professional staff in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
Page  7
Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be carried out under the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Administrator, for its approval, the overall contents and 
annual implementation schedule of the respective programs;  
(b)
carry out such training programs in accordance with the overall contents 
and annual implementation schedule approved by the Administrator; and 
(c)
within one month after the conclusion of each such annual training 
program, furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the results of the training program and 
the benefits to be derived therefrom. 
Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the Project Coordinating Units, 
shall, not later than February 28 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
furnish to the Administrator, for its review and comments, a report on the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard to the preceding calendar year 
of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator may reasonably request.
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about February 15, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Administrator, by March 15, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Page  8
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the SAFCO Law or the Decentralization Law or the Municipal Organic Law or 
the Popular Participation Law or their regulations or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion 
of the Administrator, materially and adversely, the ability of the Borrower or any of 
the Executing Agencies to perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement; 
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower or any of the Executing Agencies will be able to perform their 
respective obligations or undertakings under the Technical Cooperation Arrangements or 
the Telecommunications Agreement, as the case may be; 
(c)
except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower or any 
other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of any Executing Agency or for the suspension of their operations so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Administrator, materially and adversely, the 
ability of such Executing Agency to perform any of their respective obligations or 
undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower or the Executing Agencies shall have failed to perform any 
of their respective obligations or undertakings under the Technical Cooperation 
Arrangements or the Telecommunications Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
that the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and  
(b)
that any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Page  9
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that at least four Technical Cooperation Arrangements with Prefectures 
shall have been entered into; 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreements shall have been entered into; and 
(c)
that MDH and CG have issued a Project operational manual satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date November 19, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia.
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
By /s/ Edgar Millares 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
Page  10
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
  8,340,000
100% of foreign
Services and
expenditures and
Training
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
    370,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Incremental
    870,000
85%
Operating Costs
(4)
Refunding of
    600,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance this 
Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
    620,000
TOTAL
 10,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures for the 
operation and maintenance of the Project Coordinating Unit within MDH, including: (i) 
office supplies; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; (iii) operation and 
maintenance of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; (iv) 
staff of the Project Coordinating Unit; and (v) domestic and international travels and 
per diems of its personnel, required for the execution of the Project; and
(d)
the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic 
and international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (iii) training 
materials. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$900,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) in the table in 
Page  11
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures under:
(a)
contracts for goods costing less than $40,000 equivalent each;
(b)
contracts for services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each;
(c)
contracts for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent each; and
(d)
all Incremental Operating Costs and Training.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the establishment of: (a) integrated financial 
management systems in the Prefectures, the Decentralized Entities, and the Selected 
Municipalities; and (b) uniform professional accounting, auditing and evaluation 
standards across the Borrower’s public sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Decentralized Integrated Financial Management Systems
Development of modern and automated financial management systems for the 
Prefectures, the Decentralized Entities and the Selected Municipalities to assist in 
the implementation of the Borrower’s budget regulations and administrative procedures, 
as well as in the institutionalization of operating procedures for treasury 
transactions and implementation of the financial accounting norms established by the 
SAFCO Law, through: 
(a)
modernization and computerization of operating procedures in the treasury 
area (including cash and debt management); 
(b)
implementation of accounting systems and procedures, and budget execution 
and reporting systems; 
(c)
implementation of automated administrative systems in the Prefectures to 
track inventories, procurement processes, personnel count and fixed assets; 
(d)
integration of the above systems into independent financial management 
computerized systems, for the Prefectures and the Decentralized Entities; and 
(e)
development of a standard project accounting system to monitor 
expenditures financed by international financial institutions.
Part B:
Public Sector Integration of Financial Management Systems
Development of telecommunications links between the financial and budget 
reporting systems implemented under Part A of the Project, aimed at establishing a 
nationally integrated system of accounting, reporting and public expenditure 
monitoring, including: 
(a)
connection of the integrated financial management systems of the 
Borrower, the Prefectures and the Decentralized Entities, via telecommunications 
networks; 
(b)
installation of wireless telecommunications networks to allow 
consolidation of financial reporting, budget expenditure data and public debt 
information; and 
(c)
development of on-line electronic processing procedures for financial 
transactions, and installation of modules to capture remote entry of budget 
expenditure transactions, so as to record budget movements and balances.
Page  12
Part C:
Decentralized Budget Transactions and Payment Systems
Establishment of efficient transfer procedures for budgetary funds, aimed at 
allowing more efficient budget distributions to the Prefectures and to the Selected 
Municipalities, along with supporting budgeting and public investment systems, through 
the development of: 
(a)
automated public funds transfers via the commercial banking network; and 
(b)
electronic transfer of records and accounts within the Borrower’s 
centrally integrated financial management systems.
Part D:
Dissemination of Integrated Financial Management Systems
Development and implementation of programs to assure the efficient operation of 
the systems established under Parts A, B and C of the Project, including: 
(a)
provision of technical assistance and training to key staff in each 
Executing Agency on the operation and management of integrated financial management 
systems; 
(b)
carrying out of national workshops for the Borrower’s public sector 
financial and technical staff, in the operation and applications of such systems; and 
(c)
carrying out of a dissemination campaign among the general public on the 
scope and impact of the SAFCO Law.
Part E:
Project Operation  Operation of the Project Coordinating Unit within 
MDH.
Part F:
Strengthening of the Institutional Capacity of the Borrower’s Audit and 
Evaluation Function
Provision of technical assistance to improve the Borrower’s auditing capacity in 
the following areas: 
(a)
evaluation of audits conducted on the operations of Public Sector 
Entities; 
(b)
institutionalization of procedures for conducting the auditing of the 
SAFCO Law financial and administrative systems in Public Sector Entities; 
(c)
auditing of financial management capability and administrative controls 
in the Prefectures and the Selected Municipalities; 
(d)
auditing of budget distribution programs implemented under the Popular 
Participation Law and the Administrative Decentralization Law and their regulations; 
and
(e)
strengthening of the regional offices of CG through the installation of 
modernized information technology systems that allow the central office of CG to share 
information with the regional offices.
Part G:
Strengthening of Audit Capabilities for Operational and Non-Financial 
Audits and Evaluations
Strengthening of CG’s capabilities to conduct operational audits (including 
ex-post and in-process evaluations of the operational execution and performance of 
investment programs, environmental operations and other special audit areas) as a 
supplement to the financial audits, including: 
(a)
development of information technology system audits to adapt traditional 
audit techniques to the features of automated financial transactions processing; and 
(b)
conducting audits of privatization processes of Public Sector Entities.
Part H:
Anti-Corruption Techniques
Provision of technical assistance for: 
(a)
developing and implementing audit techniques for anticorruption 
Page  13
detection; 
(b)
carrying out of: 
(i)
training programs for CG staff in the audit techniques for 
anticorruption detection; 
(ii)
specific audits on major public contracting procedures; 
(iii)
audit exercises for the detection of corruption; and 
(iv)
forensic auditing seminars and workshops for the Borrower’s 
officials involved in audit and accounting matters; and 
(c)
dissemination of the ethics and transparency principles applicable to the 
Borrower’s public administration under the SAFCO Law and  its regulations.
Part I:
Training in Accounting, Auditing and Financial Management
Provision of technical assistance to CG for the development of continuing 
professional and technical education programs aimed at strengthening the Public Sector 
Entities’ skills base and organizational effectiveness in applying the provisions of 
the SAFCO Law to accounting, auditing and financial management, including periodic 
training seminars at the CG’s national training center, and specific audit training 
for the regional offices of the CG.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2002. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Two-stage Bidding Procedure
The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be carried out in 
two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $140,000 but more than $40,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, and goods 
which the Administrator agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $40,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods awarded under Part B hereof; and 
(b) each contract for goods awarded under Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the development, implementation and 
dissemination of decentralized integrated financial management systems, and Project 
operation under Parts A, D and E of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training in accounting, auditing and financial management under 
Part I of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the operation of the Project Coordinating Unit within MDH under 
Part E of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Page  15
Services for the development of telecommunications links and the establishment 
of efficient transfer procedures for budgetary funds under Parts B and C of the 
Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Administrator's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for the development, implementation and dissemination of decentralized 
integrated financial management systems, the establishment of efficient transfer 
procedures for budgetary funds and telecommunications links, Project operation, the 
strengthening of the Borrower’s audit and evaluation functions, the strengthening of 
audit capabilities for operational and non-financial audits and evaluations, and the 
development of anti-corruption techniques and training, under Parts A through I of the 
Project, in tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; 
consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders 
offering goods from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such 
contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit. 
Section IV.
Special Provisions for the Employment of Consultants
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall expressly govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule: 
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met. 
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite 
Page  16
for participating in the selection process. 
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories " means Categories (1) through (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of 
the Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of the 
Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $250,000 in respect of the Special 
Account B, until: (i) in respect of the Special Account A, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A through E of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $850,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special 
Account B, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
F through I of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $750,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and 
in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by 
said documents and other evidence. 
Page  17
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the Eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
