Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8533
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1862-TU)
APRIL 12, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office
lhls document has a restrcted drIbuton and My be used by    i   e*   E  the    m    Of
their offict. duties. Its contebt msy not otherwise be disclosed  I  Word Bank   t



Currency Equivalents
US$1 - Turkish Lira (TL)    76.0 (1980)
111.2 (1981)
162.6 (1982)
225.5 (1983)
366.7 (1984)
522.0 (1985)
674.5 (1986)
857.2 (1987)
1,422.3 (1988)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AI             Artificial insemination
CTSS     -     Center for Technical Support Services
EBK      -     Et ve Balik Kurumu (Meat and Fish Organization)
FMD            Foot and mouth disease
GDANB    -     General Directorate for AI, Natural Services and Breeding
Improvement
GDVS           General Directorate of Veterinary Services
GOT      -     Government of Turkey
LDP            General Directorate for Livestock Development Projects
MAFRA          Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
(previously MFAL)
MFAL           Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
OED      =     Operations Evaluation Department
PCR      =     Project Completion Report
RPC            Regional Poultry Cooperation
TCZB     =     Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi. (Agricultural Bank of
Turkey
TKV      =     Turkiye Kalkinma Vakri (Development Foundation of Turkey)
TYT            Turkiye Yapagi ve Tiftik A.S. (Turkish Wool and Mohair
Corporation)
VBH      =     Village broiler house
WB       -     World Bank



F0R OIviCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washiton. C.20433
0 -w
April 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey
Fifth Livestock Development Project (Loan 1862-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Turkey:  Fifth Livestock Development Project (Loan
1862-TU)M prepared by the FAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Program and revised by
the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attackment
The docunent has a rsmtded distibutInm and my be used by ecets l In the pefoanuce
of their officil duties. is contents may not oteise be disctsed wbout Wodd ank authoion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
FIFTH LIVESTOC  DEVELOMPNT PROJECT ttCAN 1862-TO)
PROJECT COT PLETIOg mPORm
Table of Contents
Pap
Preface     .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..   i
Basic  Data    ............................                            .. .*    il
Evwluatlon Summary                                                    . . v
1.   Introduction  ...................                                 1
2.   Background   ...................                                  1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                 2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                    4
5.  Project Implementation .................. . 7
6.   Project Results.. ................... 8
7.   Project Sustainability .................. .  12
8.  Bank Performance ....................                             13
9.  Borrower Performance ....................  14
10.  Project Relationship ....................  14
11.  Consultancy Services ....................  15
12.  Project Documentation and Data .............. .  16
Appendix  Co4ments from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural
Affairs and the Agriculture Bank .17
Annex
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits        ..                         21
2. Project TSimetable             ..22
3.  Loan Disbursements (Cumulative Estimated and Actual)  . .        23
3a. Original Loan Allocation          ..24
3b. Revised Loan Allocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
3c. Final Loan Allocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
4.   Project Cost and Financing        ..27
5.   Project Results - Direct Benefits ....  .      .    .. .        2a
6. Status of Covenants             ..29
7.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
A. Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
B. Missions .          .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
8.  Physical Implementation ....  .      .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .  33
1 - Number of Dairy Farms Established ... .        ...... .      .  33
2 -Number of Cattle and Sheep Fattening Operations .  .  . . .  34
3 - Number of Merino Sheep Enterprises Established  ..  ...  35
4 - Numbes of Angora Coat Enterprises Established .....   .  36
5 - Poultry Component .       .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
6- Credit Delivery .        .        . . .  . . . . . . .    . . . .3b
4    Physical Parameters - Poultry Component (1985-1987) .     ..  39
10.   Indicative Financial Farm Budget - 5-Cow Dairy Farm  . . . .-.  40
11.  Indicative Financlal Farm Budget - Cattle Fattening .... .  42
12.   Consultants Employed  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .   ........ .  44
Attachment 1 - Description of the Project (L.A., Sched. 2) .45
MAP - IBRD 148411
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients ondy in the perfonnanca
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



(i)
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1862-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth
Livestock Development Project in Turkey, for which Loan 1862-TU in the
amount of US$51.0 million was approved in June 1980. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1987.  The last disbursement took place on October 31,
1988.
The PCR was prepared by the FAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Program,
with the exception of the Preface, Evaluation Summary, part of paras. 6.6
and 12.1, and Annex, tables 3b, 3c, 4, 7A and Attachment 1, which are the
responsibility *f Bank staff, who also made some editorial changes to
enhance the claz- .ty of the report. The PCR takes account of a draft PCR
prepared by the Government in March 1989.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments. Comments received from the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) and from the
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) are attached as an Appendix to this
report.



- il   o
FIFTfI LUVES1OT   IE   lft  OICT
ILlS 18b2-1T)
BASIC DATA MEE
A. KEY PRJET DATA
Aprtiul                  ktual or
EsUta                 EsUated ktua
t1t1. Project Cut US$ Millie)               123.0                       /
total troject Cott  m1 sillion)           8,10.0                      */
LI  hut 1Ub million)                         51.0                     51.0
vote of Drd Appral                                                 06.3.O0
ate of Lon Agr     t                                               06.06.80
btt of Lo  EffKctiVnes                   10.06.80                  10.22.80
Clsingi ate                             06.30.87                  12.31.V
Ecomic Rt of Ibturn (1)                    71.1S                      IIA
Intitutional PUeorate                                             NId
Imbe of laficiaris (lio   crated)        2,"O fa   failis             HIA
pls a aditial
2,780 job creatd
1s. hWFf louit
FY79       FM30       FMl        F          FY83       FY84        F5         FV86       FW         FiN1
ldentitftio"Prep.        23.7         2.0
otiation                              8.3
&AaIsl                               57.5
pervisim                              0.6      33.1       11.2       23.4       12.8        15.6       37.1       19.4       11.9
Othwr                      0.1        1.3                  2.5       .0.5
TOTALS           23.8        9.7      33.1        13.7       23.9       12.8       15.6       37.1       19.4        lt.9
C. WWtthE DIBnu
FY81      FM2        FY83       F          FM         Fill        F7         FY83       FY8
Aprail Estimate U$ million)        1.0      5.30      12.30       23.30      38.30      48.30       51.00
ktual 4U13 million)                         1.31       4.62        8.80      16.35      32.55       37.52     50.43       1.00
ktul a      t of Estimte (Ol                 25         38          38         43         67          74
Dte of final Disbset              Octoer 31, 19"8
*/   To$Al eCOA        proeJ    coo   n"   ovolablo.    e  pe. 12            of tot and Ann    4J on
Proj.o   Financing for element of projet coot t                 by  Iw   and 1ZB.



- iii -
D. Nnsliol DATA
-                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~oerforanc
bate    lle. el   Speclelzataons       t---           _-              rTpe'
(Nr./Yr.)  Prsom       Rpresnted /I       Status 12      Tcnd 13  of Problm  I0
Proidentification             7/I8       I        L
ItdntificatinIPr,p           11173       1        L
PrpWratin                  917M
Prwration IFAO/CP)         2179SM        3         1, N, F
Supervisions
I  Si                    3-4/I1        4        E, L, 1, AN            2            1             P
2                         -6/81        2        L, L                   2            1             P
3                        6/61          1        E                      2            1             0
0  7/                    tlel          1        L                      2            1             n/g
S7/                      12/11         1        L                      2            1             F, N
6                        10/82         2        L, A                   2            2             F, N
7                        5/63          2        4, E                   2            3             0, F
8                        10/R3         1        A                      2            2             0, F
9 71                     484           2        A, a                   2            2             0, F
10 el                     4164          1        A                     N/A          N/A            niq
11  7/                    9-10/84       1        A                      2            2             N, f  to/
12                        5-6185        1        E
13                        11/85         1        E
14                        4-3/06 9/    3         E, AN, Al              2            2
15                        7/18          1        L
16                        9-10/86       3        A, L, L
17                        6/87          1        N/A
t8                        10/87         1        E
19                        11/88         1        E
PI mission                 4/89          2         E, L
E. OTNER POJECT DATA
lorruwr                    Sovernmt of the Republic of Turkey
Executing AeKCieS          Ministry of Agriculturc, Forestry and Rural Affairs, bwnal Directorate for Livestork Delmet (LOP)/
mnral Directorate of Projecst   d Ibplmntation (1WI) II/, Agricultural Iank of Turkey (TCIS, Turtivh
ool and lohair Corporation, and llat and Fish Organization /12
Fiscal  er of Borrowe:  larch I - Februry 28 (at loan signature), changq  during implmntation period to Janur  1 - Dcme 31.
NaMe of Currecy:           Turkish Lira (TL)
Currecy Exchnge Ratet
Appraisal year Averep            1979     11.00 a LT   31.10
Intervaning Years Average        1980-87  1184.00 a LT   374.46
Completion Year Average          1998     131.00 a LT 1,422.30
1/ E s Economist/Financial Analyst; L a ivestock Specialist;  N a  Mir Specialist
AN 2 Aniul IHalth Specialist  AF * Animal Feding Specialist
2/  1 * ProIn free/mnor prIems; 2 a  oenrate problms;  3   N Mjor problms
3/ 1 a lproving; 2 a Stationary; 3 x Deteriorating
U   Financial; N   Mnagemnt; t a Technical; P a Political; 0 * Other
51  All prt-tium  eCept the econoist.
6' This mission was limited to supervision of the on-farm component.
7/ Part-time only, in conjunction with other supervisory activities.
8/ Partial supervision only.
9/ Nid-ter reviem mission.
10/ Typ of problms and status no longer indicated in supervision reporitng fars.
11/ Following dissolution of LOP in a 1984 reorganization of th Nlinistry.
12/ Caponot  ancelled.



-iv -
I-I
FIFTH LFVESTK D"=flOPEN  PRO]BT
(Loan 1862-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evalmation   mar
Proiect Backuxound and Objectives
1.        Turkey has large livestock resources, with livestock contributing
33X of total agricultural GDP. However, the subsector is largely
charaoterized by low productivity. The project under examination was the
fifth of a series of livestock projects initiated in 1971 designed primarily
to support the genetic upgrading of indigenous herds through supervised credit
for the import of pedigree dairy cattle. The fifth project, however, included
in addition components for poultry production, sheep and goat production,
artifizial insemination, control of livestock diseases, and construction of
meat and mohair processing facilities. The poultry component is innovative in
the use of a NGO (the Turkish Development Foundation - TKV) to assist in
implementation and in the vertical integration of production, processing, and
marketing through regional processing facilities partially owned by
participating farmers and a national marketing company organized by TKV. The
project was appraised in October/November 1979 and the loan signed in June
1980. Total project costs were estimated at about US$125 million, of which
the estimated foreign exchange cost (41X) was to be financed by a Bank loan of
$51 million.
fmplementation Ixprience
2.        As a result of sharp changes in macroeconomic policies in 1980/81,
including introduction of realistic exchange rates and reduction of obstacles
to livestock export, major assumptions in the project design shortly become
obsolete. Meat production became relatively more attractive and locally bred
friesians became cheaper than imports. This reduced demand for subloans under
the project. Somewhat belatedly the loan was amended in 1983 and 1984 to
permit financing of loans for locally bred improved livestock and for
fattening operations, as well as to permit disbursement against the
Agricultural Bank's (TCZB) own separate livestock lending programs provided
the loans were approved by the Ministry of Agriculture as meeting agreed
technical criteria. As a result of the Government's changed attitude toward
expansion of parastatals, the meat processing component was dropped. A foot
and mouth disease control program was added. In 1984 the Ministry of
Agriculture was reorganized merging previously separate extension services and
substantially decentralizing decision responsibility to the provincial level.
The main implementation agency for the project within the Ministry was
dissolved as a result. While these changes are expected to be generally
beneficial for the sector over the longer run, the immediate effects were to
cause considerable short-term disorientation and delays as well as loss of
project data. Progress of the poultry component was accelerated by TCZB's



- V .
agreement during p.-oject implementation to reduce equity requirements from 401
to 10X, and by TKV's decision to participate directly as a shareholder in
regional poultry corporations, and to sell their shares subsequently to
farmers as now producers joined.
3.        Due to data inadequacies, it is impossible to quantify returns on
project investments in dairy, poultry, and beef production. The component for
development of a hybrid broiler industry appears successful to date, although
financially vulnerable to declines in domestic poultry prices (such as
occurred in 1986), particularly given low equity requirements and high
interest rates. The small-scale (5 cows or less) dairy c4mponent has been
reasonably successful, receiving 52X of dairy loans (by number) with about 751
of farmers reported to be repaying. However, only 251 of farmers with larger
dairy operations are reported to be repaying their loans. The fattening
operations appear profitable, but do not contribute to the project's original
objective of herd upgrading. The disease control component made important
contributions to increasing vaccine production which can be expectea to have a
positive impact on national disease control programs. The physical targets of
the mohair processing component were achieved, but production is still
disappointing at less than 501 of capacity due to marketing difficulties and
shortage of working capital. The artificial insemination component succeeded
in expanding the number of insemination teams from 111 to 268, but
productivity of the service did not improve and farmers are reported not to
have confidence in the system. It is also disappointing that a component for
preparation of a livestock sector strategy has to date only resulted in a
series of technical studies which have not yet been pulled together into a
usable strategy document.
fnpst&InsbiLi t
4.        Project sustainability will largely depend upon future policy
decisions affecting the livestock subsector. The development of an
appropriate livestock strategy would be a valuable first step. Sustainability
of the dairy component depends upon overcoming marketing constraints. It is
likely that an integrated approach combining input supply, technical advice,
credit and marketing, in a manner similar to the poultry component, would be
beneficial. The fattening component should continue to thrive based upon its
profitability and tse of know technology. Progress has been made in
increasing the supp'.y of trained veterinarians. This needs to be matched by
improvements in the delivery of effective animal health services, including
policies encouraging private veterinary practice. Lack of farmer confidence
in the extificial insemination services has contributed to high unit costs
which make sustainability of this component doubtful in the near future.
Sustainability of the poultry component will depend to a large degree on
whether financing can be found for additional complementary facilities as well
as progress in increasing the density of poultry producers, making provision
of services more cost-effective.



. vi -
I.ossons  2a ed
5.       Major changes in the macro-economic environment or in the structure
of a project's main imuplementing agency should be followed promptly by
detailed analysis to determine what changes in project dosign are appropriate.
Adequate attentlon should be paid to awirketing problems and the importance of
project monitoring. Development of a clear strategy for the livestock sector
would hae been beneficial. The close involvement of TKV in the preparation
of the poultry component facilitated progress in its implementation. This
type of preparation involvement by implementing agencies should be encouraged.



TURKEY
EIFTH L1VESTOCK DEVELQ2MENT PROJECT
.a.ETCOMPLETION REPORT
1.  IX nn
1.1       This project completion report reviews performance under
Loan 1862-TU of October 31, 1980 (US$51.0 million) for the Fifth
Livestock Project. The Closing Date, originally June 30, 1987,
was extended to December 31, 1987. The loan amount was fully
disbursed on October 31, 1988.
2. Background
2.1      Since the early seventies, the Government of Turkey's (GOT) livestock
sectof policies have emphazised increased production in order both to sat-
isfy rising domestic demand and    encourage exports. Increased awareness of
the need to reduce income inequities between urban and rural areas, as well
as between western and eastern Turkey, has also pointed to the need to
assist livestock producers. The policies have focused largely on the
introduction of new technology at farm level to improve the efficiency of
production, linked to credit and technical assistance. In addition, emphasis
was given to improving processing and marketing facilities.
2.2      In support of these policles, the World Bank (WB) has hitherto fi-
nanced five livestock development projects in Turkey. 1/ The first and third
concentrated on dairy development, largely in the central and western
provinces. Under the first project (CR 236-TU; 1971; US$ 4.5 million) a
nucleus herd of over 3,000 imported animals was to be established on private
farms in and around the four main milk consuming centres in western Turkey,
to provide breeding stock for genetic upgrading of indigenous herds. The
project, completed in 1977, was considered largely successful.
2.3      The third project (L 1265; 1977; USS 21.5 million), was a  repeater
project of the first, and aimed at consolidating and expanding the achieve-
ment of the first project, as well as expanding its area coverage.
Over 10,000 pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls were
imported. A particular feature of this project .was the small (S-cow) village
farmer component which was a first attempt to extend, on a pilet basis,
credit and new technology to small livestock producers.
.1/ See Table 1 of Annex



2.4      The  second  livestock  project  (CR 330-TU: 1972: USS 16 million).
was aimed at    alleviating the problem of overstocking in relation  to  the
available grazing resources in eastern Turkey. The project provided credit
to encourage fattening operations and village livestock development in three
provinces      ;  tern  Turkey.  The  fattening  component  was based on the
expansion of onSivng activitles, using known technology, which was profitable
at the farm level, and was generally successful. However, village livestock
development proved disappointing. In particular the group action concept was
not accepted by farming communities during the life span of the project.
2.5     The fourth project provided supervised credit for sheep and cattle
improvement as well as for dairy production, originally In eastern Turkey
(L 1586-TU; 1978; US$ 24 million). The project had a somewhat wider concept,
however, in titat it provided funds for: technical services for farm development
planning anc supervision; animal heslth services; a milk industry study; local
and overseas training; surveys and field research in forage production and
utilization, animal production; and veterinary health care. The project did
not succeed in achieving its original objectives of introducing technical change
involving breed improvement and management of grazing resources. Nevertheless,
the PCR for the project concluded that due to modifications in project design -
reducing the emphasis on large-scale dairy and imported cows, and expanding the
fattening activities -- project results were beneficial to both participating
farmers and the economy as a whole.
3.  Proiect Obiectives and Descrintion
3.1      The fifth project sought to  further  consolidate  and  expand  the
gains made under the previous four liv4stock projects and to initiate Bank-
assisted efforts in complementary activities in the fields of animal health,
artificial breeding, meat processing, mohair exports and poultry production.
Specifically, the project would:
a) channel medium- and long-term supervised credits for on-farm
development to dairy, breed-improvement and poultry producers, most
of whom would be small farmers;
b) control economically important livestock diseases to prevent the
adverse effects on milk and meat production and human health, and
for which there were established means of control;
c) upgrade the genetic merit (and hence productivity) of cattle
through an expanded artificial insemination programme;
d) install two meat cutting facilities and twelve intestine processing
units in parastatal (EBK) slaughterhouses and provide tefrigerated
rail transport to service demand in the deficit meat markets of
central and western Turkey and export m.arkets; and
e) construct a 1,000 ton per annum mohair processing plant for the
export of high-value mohair tops.
The project consisted of the followlng six components:
i) Livestock Development and Breed Improvement (US$42.8 million, in-
cluding contingencies). This component would provide supervised
credit through the Turkish Agricultural Development Bank (TCZB) to
a total of 2,300 beneficiaries for:



-3 -
a) dairy  cattle  improvement,  based  on  imported  pdiqrPe
cattle, on about 1.150 farms I/ ;
b) breed improvement, based on the upgrading and culling of
local cross-bred cattle, involving the establishment of
about 600 10-cow units;
c) Merino sheep improvement, including the establishment of
about 300 50-ewe units;
d) Angora goat improvement for mohair production, involving
the establishment of about 250 100-doe units.
The   supervision   of  the  credit  and  the  livestock  husbandry
assistance to farmers was to be provided by the General Directorate
for Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture  2/.    The project would provide funds for  an  additional
15 veterinarians, 15 agronomists, 16 middle-level animal health
technicians and 17 middle-level agriculturalists.
ii) Villag. PultrX  Daevelopment  (US$ 29.9  million).  This  component
would finance a six-year time slice of a ten-year programme, based
on a pilot operation which wasproceedingsuccessfully in the south
of   Turkey,   with  the  assistance  of  the  Turkish  Development
Foundation (TKV). Medium- and long-term credit would finance:
a) individual Village Broiler Houses (VBH) with a capacity of
2,000 broilers per cycle (10.000 broilers annually) for
about 600 producers;
b) twelve Regional Processing Centres (RPC) each with a
caoacity of 1,200 tons of dressed meat annually to serve
the cold storage and processing needs of, and to supply
mixed   feed   concentrates  and  vaccines  to, about  100
individual producers;
c) nine parent stock farms with an individual annual capacity
of 1.1 million starter chicks to be supplied to the VBHs;
d) a grandparent stock farm to produce presently imported
female parent stock with a capacity of producing 375,000
grandparent females annually; and
e) a premix feed plant with six feed mixing units to supply
the premix concentrate needs of the VBHs.
The processing and parent stock units were to be geared to clusters
of producers, which would permit taking advantage of economies of
scale in the processing and marketing stages. In order to assist
the small producers, so-called Centres for Technical Support
Services (CTSS) would be set up under the supervision of LDP.
1/  600 5-cow units; 400 12-cow units; 100 20-cow units; and 50 30-cow
units.
2/  MFAL, -tow MAPRA.



- 4 -
iii) Animal  HeUalh (USS 8.7 million), The animal health cnmponent would
focus on three diseases: Mastitis, Brucellosis and Theileriosis.
The programme would proceed in two steps: first a baseline study
was to be carried out to survey the incidence of the three diseases
concerned, followed by a 4 to 5 year control Programme. Provision
was made to assist in the production of Brucellosis vaccines and
the equipping of 65 field teams to carry out a.o. an effective
Theileriosis vaccination programme.
iv) Artificial Brgeding (USS 36.1 million). The component, located in
20 provinces of central, southern and western Anatolia, would
expand the ongoing Al programme. A total of 300 teams (technicians.
drivers and vehicles) would be equipped; existing Al centres would
be expanded; a new laboratory would be built; and some frozen semen
would be imported, as well as some pure bred heifers and bulls, to
expand the breeding herds.
v) Mgat Processing (USS 3.5 million). Two meat processing facilities
would be built in EBK's existing slaughterhouses. In addition.
twelve refrigerated  rail  wagons  would  be  provided  and  twelve
intestine   processing   facilities  would  be  added  to  existing
slaughterhouses.
vi) Mohair Processing (USS 4.0 million). Under  this  component  a  new
three shift 1,000 ton/year mohair processing plant. owned and
operated by the Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporaton (TYT), would be
constructed and equipped in Afyon.
3.3      Total project cost was estimated to be US$125 million, of which
US$51 million (41% of the total cost), equivalent to the foreign exchange
cost, was to be financed by the WB loan. TCZB would finance US$22.6 mil-
lion (18X); farmer contributions would total US$5.9 million (5X); and GOT
would finance the reminaing US$45.5 million (362).
4.  Proiet Design and nrganization
4.1      The initial preparation of the project was carried out by LOP using
their experience of the first four projects and similar models to analyze
the viability of the livestock development proposals. 1/ Project design
reflected the socio-economic reality in Turkey during the late seventies;
i.e. heavy reliance on government and parastatal intervention. Although the
SAR alludes several times to the need for exploring the possibility of in-
creasing involvement of the private sector in areas such as veterinary
services, artificial insemination, livestock product marketing, etc., this
was not reflected in the project design. The poultry component was the
notable exception.
4.2      The poultry development proposals benefited in particular from  two
design features. Firstly, they were vertically integrated.
containing support for breeding, feed production, distribution.
producer credit and marketing. Secondly, they were based on the experiences
of an existing integrated pilot poultry project. Staff of TKV had been fully
involved in the preparation of the poultry component and consequently they
1/ Some assistance had been received from the FAO/CP in the fields of
mohair processing.



-5-
were conversant with the proposals and the innovative financial arranqements
therein.
4.3      The component entailed production              in  each  location  to
start with clusters of around 20 associated producers (village broiler
houses or VBH's), with new ones being added annually until optimal groups of
100 producers were formed. Regional production companies (RPC's) and parent
stock units were set up and connected  to  a  number  of  clusters,  serving
around 600 producers. The VBNWs would secure starter chicks from the parent
stock farms and purchase mixed feed and supplies from units attached to the
RPC's, while the mature broilers would be processed and packaged by the same
RPC's. Initially, processing was done manually, while cold storage would be
provided by small portable units. When production increased, the RPC's would
invest   in   full   processing   facilities,   including   slaughterhouse;.
refrigerated storage, and feed units. A national marketing company would
sell the meat produced by the RPC's under one brand name throughout Turkey.
All RPC's. parent stock units and the marketing holding company would be
joined together under the umbrella of one apex holding, KOY-TUR. which
permitted all component units or companies to benefit from centralized
services and coordination, as well as to provide specialized extension
services on poultry nutrition and diseases, engineering and financial
analysis.
4.4      The dairy component did not have the  benefits  of  such  vertical
integration. Thz supervised credit component centred on the use of imported
pedigree cattle, following directly upon the work of the first and third
livestock projects 1/ . Private farmers were expected to take loans, and to
make "a shift away from some cropping to 100% livestock-related activity".
They wouli have general access to the state veterinary and Al services, but
there was no similar provision of marketing assistance or management support.
Moreover, it was insufficiently recognized that, while in Livestock I farms
were all fairly close to the market and there was a reasonable density of
farms, the fifth project covered a much more widespread geographical area.
Under these circumstances, the effective delivery of animal health and hus-
bandry services became difficult to ensure, and many farmers experienced
marketing problems.
4.5      The  veterinary  component,  while  only 7% of project cost, mainly
aimed at expanding the existing Government service, mostly by increasing the
number of field teams. It was regrettable that agreement on the need to
tackle FMD, although suggested by the Bank, was  not   reached  during  the
design stage of the project. It is arguably the most important livestock
disease in terms of economic loss in Turkey, and its inclusion in the
project would probably have triggered a review of the animal health delivery
service as a whole. Instead, the selection of three other diseases gave
the impression that it was possible to tackle them in isolation.
4.6      The selection of Mastitis as a priority for a control programme was
highly questionable, because: a) full control has yet to be achieved even in
advanced countries, and b) the survey and control system proposed does not
appear to have been well understood by the staff concerned. The collection
and testing of samples for mastitis has become an end in itself, while the
necessary husbandry and prophylactic measures to control mastitis have not
I/ While the fourth project uradertook similar work in a different area -
Eastern Turkey.



-6-
received their due attention.
4.7      The  Al  proposals  involved  a massive expansion of the Government
services 1/ . Yet, they were not based on a previously successful operating
experience. The expected effectiveness of the proposed fully mobile service
was therefore Questionable and in any case uncertain. The lack of emphasis
on   the   delivery   aspects   of  AI  led,  during  implementation,  to  a
disproportionate amount of effort being devoted to aspects of herd recording
and genetic selection which, while extremely valuable in the long run, have
little relevance when the service itself is not accepted by farmers.
Moreover, the SAR contained no analysis of the delivery costs involved in
the system. Had it done so, including the estimation of likely user charges.
it may be that the project would have moved towards some type of static
point system instead of a full scale mobile one. Also, although assurances
were sought that suitable charges would be introduced for a full recovery of
operating costs, this was not incorporated as a technique to ensure the
development of (cost) effective services.
4.8      The      project  design's      concentration  on  breed  improvement
detracted attention from fodder crop production. Despite constant references
in the SAR to the need to ensure an adequate level of on-farm feed resources
to support the introduction of high producing dairy cattle, the project
design reflected little support to this activity. LDP was expected to
implement the technical and economic aspects of the project and coordinate
the work of the other units. Yet, in actual fact the failure of the larger
dairy units presumably reflects in part an incorrect assumption that large
farms would grow only fodder crops (substituting all cash crops previously
grown for such fodder crops) and in part the fact that farmers did not get
enough extension support to make the required shift in their cropping
pattern. Moreover, there was insufficient specialist advice to devise
alternative feeding systems using additional concentrates, fitting more
effectively with the farmers preferred (perhaps more realistic and less risk
prone) farming system.
4.9      The  appraisal  would  also  have  benefited  from  a         thorough
analysis of the financial attractiveness of the dairy proposals in a  macro-
economic environment characterized by high domestic inflation, especially in
the light of the experience gained at that time from the first and third
livestock projects. The Mission was unable to obtain the detailed farm
models used in the SAR, while those supplied by TCZB were not internally
consistent. 2/ Overall, too heavy reliance was put on the parastatal sector
to supply the necessary services to the farmers, while the risks related to
milk marketing in the more remote areas were insufficiently incorporated.
This turned out to be probably the single most important factor contributing
to the failure of the large percentage of the larger dairy producers (see
para. 6.6).
4.10     A  noticeable  omission  at  the  design  stage  was  the  lack  of
consideration of cattle and sheep fattening (see paras. 6.6 and 7.2). Even
in 1979, there were indications that fattening was much more profitable than
dairy production, and in addition, inclusion of the component would have had
a beneficial environmental impact by increasing the flow-of cattle from east
to west Turkey, thereby relieving the overstocked grazing resources in east
I/  The proposals to import pedigree cattle and frozen semen and to build up
the Al system complete with performance testing capability accounted for
USS 36.1 million (29% of project cost).
2/ The budgeted feed and fodder resources would not maintain the projected
herd and produce the levels of milk assumed.



-7-
Turkey. A full analysis of both the production of immatures in the East  and
their fattening in the West, could have shown better ways to ensure
reciprocal benefits to both parties. Merely offering credit for fattening
operations, as was included at a later stage (para. 5.1) may not necessarily
have led to the expected environmental improvements in eastern Turkey.
4.11     In  retrospect, the decision to involve TKV in both preparation and
execution of the project was a major contribution to the success of the
village poultry programme. The lack of livestock sector strategy at the time
of appraisal did not assist clear focussing of the main issues in the
livestock sector which the project sought to address. The lack of a critical
analysis of the problems of the dairy industry was most serious. It should
have been apparent that significant expansion of dairy farming needed to be
linked with market development. By pushing for, and supporting, the private
delivery of Al and switching the investment to develop milk collection and
processing, a significantly better outcome could have  been  achieved  1/
while project design should haire taken account that many locally bred
improved cattle were available (partly as a result of earlier projects).
5. Proiect Imolementation
5.1      Several  of the original project objectives were changed during the
course of the project. The parastatal meat processing component was dropped
under influence of the government liberalization programme. Regarding the
livestock production credit component, by mid-1983 only 164 farm development
loans had been extended i.e. 7.5Z of the total number forecast at appraisal.
Equally, the importation of p'nrebred cattle was only 12% of the project
total. Loan financing was restricted to the purchase of imported animals
which resulted in a disbursement problem, because farmers preferred to buy
the cheaper, locally bred Friesians.
5.2      On  July 11 1983,  the  loan  agreement  was amended to include the
purchase of local beef cattle and sheep for fattening and local animals for
dairy  farming (  Annex , Table 3b). When loan disbursments still failed to
increa,.i in 1984, it was agreed to  allow       financing  of  loans  extended
through TCZB's ongoing lending programme for fattening operations, on the
condition that the loan applications would be subject to scrutiny by MAFRA
and that they would be accepted for priority support services. Around
USS 11.5 million of such withdrawal requests were processed.
5.3      The objectives of the disease control  component  were  amended  in
1983 to include support for the Government's FMD control programme.
Equipment and chemicals valued at US$ 1.66 million were financed to augment
the vaccine production capacity and provide eighty vehicles for field teams.
5.4      Project implementation was significantly influenced by the economic
reforms that where instituted in the wake of the political changes which
took place shortly after the project was negotiated. Yet, perhaps the single
most important factor affecting proje:t implementation, that could not have
been foreseen during appraisal was the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture, initiated in 1984. Broadly reflecting World Bank advice. it
merged previously separate extension services and sought to decentralize
decision responsibility to the provincial and district level. In principle,
the  new  organization  could  allow  a   more  effective  implementation of
1/ First steps in the direction of involving the private sector are being
taken by some private firms which have commenced local improved breeding
for commercial purposes.



-8-
sectoral programmes in the long run, however, its  imemdiate  result  was  a
considerable period of disorientation within the Ministry, while new lines
of authority and areas of responsibility were being established.
5.5      Most  important  for  the  project was that the main implementation
agency, the General directorate of Livestock Development (LPD) was dissolved
as a result of the reorganization. Project execution responsibility was
transferred to the newly organized provincial directorates of agriculture.
Project implementation was seriously affected as LPD project staff were
transferred to the provincial offices, where, for a considerable period of
time, they remained uncertain regarding their new responsibilities. Amonst
others, this led to the virtual cessation of on-farm planning and credit
supervision by Ministry of Agriculture staff. Credit delivery became
virtually a sole TCZB operation, and small dairy procucers had a clearly
diminished   access   to  fodder  crop  and  animal  husbandry  support.  In
retrospect, it is regrettable that the organizational brrangements were not
amended in the wake of the reorganization.
5.6      Implementation  of  the  poultry component experienced a slow start
partly because of delays in appointing TKV as consultant, but possibly more
importantly, because of delays in the disbursement of sub-loans to poultry
farmers by TCZB due to strict equity requirements. The agreement was changed
subsequently, whereby TCZB reduced the equity requirements from 40 to 10%,
as well as reducing collateral requirements, partially substituting them for
a guarantee from TKV. Another change agreed during project implementation
was that TKV participated directly as shareholder in the regional poultry
corporations  and  parent  stock  corporations. Shares initially held by TKV
were subsequently sold to farmers, as the companies expanded and other, new
producers   joined   the   companies.  This  arrangement,  reflecting  TKV's
commitment, enabled each company to start with sufficient paid-up capital at
the early stages of their establishment, without excessive loan financing or
farmers equity participation (see also paras 6.2 to 6.4).
6. Project Resultc
6.1      The  project achieved its objectives in relation to the development
of the hybrid broiler industry. It was less successful in its interventions
on livestock disease control and least successful in dairy development and
the genetic improvement of dairy cattle. The physical targets of the mohair
component were achieved, but production is still disappointing at less than
half of capacity. Data on project impact are extremely scarce and often
difficult to reconcile (see para.12.2). However, Table 8 of Annex shows
some of the original physical targets and to what extent they are reported
to have been achieved.
6.2      A total of around 940 village broiler houses (VBH) were established
during the 1982-1987 period serviced by 12 regional poultry corporations. J/
The capacity of each broiler house was doubled from 2,000 birds per cycle to
4,000, potentially resulting in the production of somhething over 20,000 m.t.
of broiler meat per year - well in excess of the SAR estimate of 6,700 m.t.
1/ Other information available states that only 653 VOHWs were in
production in 1987, while data supplied by TKV states that 1,162 poultry
farmers were established with the assistance of the project, most if not
all of whom were still in production in 1988 and were still servicing
their loans. These differences data could not be reconciled by the PCR
Mission.



-9-
The  physical  parameters  achieved  by  poultry  producers  are   generally
satisfactory (Table 9 of Annex    ).  The  regional  poultry  centres  were
established to support the VBH's and the entire development was managed by
the Turkish Developmers Foundation (TKV), which is also a commercial
enterprise operating in the po'Itry industry in its own right. A grand
parent stock farm was financed under the project, owned by the Ministry of
Agri.lture,  and is succesfully operated jointly by TKV. a foreign investor
and the regional poultry producers. The grand parent stock farm was
innovative as it was the first such farm in the country, thereby replacing
imports and using innovative techniques such as artificial insemination.
6.3      Broiler producers  encountered  financial  difficulties  due  to  a
combination of high interest rates (as was the case with the dairy
production component) and slower than expected start-up of production. These
difficulties were mostly overcome by the RPC's advancing most inputs in
kind, only deducting the expenses at the end of the production cycle. 1/
Moreover, farmers received regular cash payments as advances for their
labour.  It  is  reported  that  these  advances  were  in  many   instances
substantially higher than the actual net margin (after deduction for debt
servicing) resulting from their operations. Although such practices may be
justified in certain instances to shield farmers from temporary negative
developments  and  allow    farmers  to   satisfy   their   debt   serv cing
obligations, it is reported that in certain cases there was a definite
danger that this practice may have developed at the farm level into a
subsidy rather than a mere stabilization mechanism. This practice also made
the interpretation of actual financial performance of VBH's difficult and
burdened the RPC's financial performance. The Mid-term Review, carried out
in 1986. feared that, although TKV might continue to assist farmers from a
financial   point   of   view,   the   integrated  poultry  model  would  be
insufficiently financially viable in the initial stages of production to be
self-sustaining. This fear was further supported by the high debt:equity
ratio which producers were facing due to the mere 10X equity requirements
and the high interest rates. It is reported that TKV's direct financial (but
often temporary) Involvement has saved         many producers and  RPC's  from
insolvency.
6.4      tKV,  through its Center for Technical Support Services (CTSS) 2/
has provided essential services to producers. While some of the services to
newly   established  VBH's  and  RPC's  are  of  a  temporary  nature  (e.g.
engineering design for investments, assistance in applying for TCZB credit.
etc.), it is recognized that some form of technical support for already
establised poultry growers will need to be continued for a number of years.
The Mid-term Review expressed concern that the cost of these technical
support services could not be recovered from producers.
6.5      The disease control  component  focused  on  three  diseases  only:
Mastitis, Theilerosis and Brucellosis. There are reports of significant
disease losses in the early stage of the project, mostly attributed, to
outbreaks   of  Foot  and  Mouth  Oisease  (FMD).  Project  records  on  the
vaccination of stock appear incomplete, but evidence from the production
institute at Pendik shows that increasing numbers of vaccine to have been
produced and issued. To what extent this incremental vaccine production is
1/  In addition the RPC's keep the individual farmers' books and handle  the
farmers' loan repayments to TCZB through deductions.on payments due to
the farmers on the deliveries.
21  Established under a technical assistance contract between MAFRA and TKV.
The contract expired on 31 December 1987.



- 10 -
due to the project is impossihle to indicate. yet it  is  obviouc  that  the
project made an imiportant contribution to this production, which in turn
must have hod a positive impact on the national disease control programme.
OaSes ot Vacclne Produced
vaccine          IJ±2     19821191  198t
Thellerosts        9-435     43,270     55.332    66.035    72.540     84.995
rucelHa S 19    52.000    120.950    277,000   382,000    464,000    752.000
Brucella Nev.9 1,281,000  1.170.000  9.900.000 5.284,000 11,142.400  4.890.000
FMD used in
project area 1.006.486  1,127,394  2.101,056 1,920,831  1,213,068  3,624.993
Total FRO
doses        5.313.243  6,570,393 12.707.629 9,389,389  6.941.387 14.611,823
6.6      Seven  hundred  and forty seven (747) dairy farms were established.
74% of which were of 5 cows or less (the SAR forecast was 600 farms, or 52%
of the total- Table 8 of Amnex ). Loan officers of the TCZB estimated that
around 752 of the small farms were repaying their loans, compared to only
25X of  the  remainder.  Individual farm performance was not satisfactorily
monitored during project implementation, while, as noted above, the TCZB's
farm budgets were-not internally consistent. Without these farm models, and
in absence of detailed data on performance of dairy and fattening farms, it
is impossible to quantify the project returns for investment in dairy,
poultry and  beef production.  1/    Annex    , Tables  10 and  11
present entirely indicative models based on mission assumptions,
showing that small and medium scale dairying is profitable when
marketing constraints are not too severe (IRR 27.3%), and that
cattle fattening operations give respectable returns (IRR 17.6%).
Sensitivity tests of the models show that results after financing
are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates on borrowed
funds.   Given the high  domestic inflation, real  interest rates
for agricultural loans are marginal if not negative in Turkey.
This makes cattle and sheep fattening even more profitable due to
the relatively short investment period and the increase in value
of the fattened herd in nominal terms over and above the
fattening premium. This explains at least in part the popularity
of fattening operations as compared to dairy production, where
the investment is long term and the recurrent income of milk is
more important than that of cattle.
1/ -At the time of appraisal, the ERR of the entire project was estimated at
71%; while the ERR's ranged from the modest 19..5X for the livestock
production component to the 1122 for AI and animal health component and
72X for the Meat Processing component. Mohair processing was expected to
generate 392. Given that the benefits of the mohair processing
component were delayed, that the meat processing component was dropped,
and, more importantly, the benefits of the AI and animal health
component are only a fraction of those estimated at the time of
appraisal, it can be assumed that the overall ERR, if recalculated,
would be much more modest than the appraisal estimate. It should be
noted however, that the negative impact would have been, at least
partially, compensated by the inclusion.of the highly profitable
fattening component.



- 11 -
6.7      Regarding  Al.  the  proiect  succeeded  in expandinq the number of
teams to 268 and 294,000 cows were inseminated in 1987 I/ . This falls short
of  the  SAR  target of 795,000 and it is reported that farmers still do not
have confidence in the system. Furthermore the Productivity of  the  service
did not improve since the start of the project. Teams drive between 100 and
160 km per day, yet average only  2.4 services/day.  A  supervision  mission
stressed already in 1983 that Al probably has only a limited role to play in
Turiey and that the project component should be regarded as being of a pilot
nature only; this is difficult to reconcile with the USS 36.1 million budget
of the component. The SAR estimated impressive net economic benefits from
the AI component. mostly generated from future increased milk production
resulting from selection and upgrading of the local dairy herd. Apart from
the fact that the assumptions on which the analysis was based appear to have
been rather optimistic, in reality, the actual number of inseminations  has
fallen short of the SAR estimate. Further, it is not even clear to what
extent the recorded inseminations were successful, so that the achieved
benefits may only be a fraction of those estimated at appraisal.
6.8      With  the  notable  exception  of the broiler industry development.
project impact has been muted by factors relating to its design. Cattle and
sheep fattening was not part of the original project and no study is
available to show the possible results of increasing the cattle offtake from
East  Turkey,  or  of  alternative investments which would have improved the
returns to the original owners of the immature stock. Moreover TCZ8 had
already  made  loans  in  excess  of USS 200 million before finance was made
available from the project. Whether the USS11.5 million from the project led
to an increase in the number of cattle fattened, or whether it served to re-
finance part of TCZB's commitment to fattening, is not clear.
6.9      The TYT mohair processing facility  was  completed  more  or   less
on schedule. 2/ The equipment, purchased in 1983 and installed in 1984, was
bought on advice of the Shirley Institute. Due to intimate knowledge of the
international market for this specialised machinery, significant cost
savings could be realized - over 20X of the overall cost. I/ TYT requested
to purchase additional processing equipment from these savings in order to
be able to export more finished products. The Bank judged that, in view of
the lack of working capital and the disappointing overall production. it was
prudent to first concentrate on consolidation of the existing production
line before further expanding the production process. Production started in
1984 but output has only reached around 25X of the total estimated capacity
of 1,000 tons p.a. due to a combination of marketing difficulties and
insufficient working capital. It appears that TYT is investigating ways to
improve the quality/price ratio and especially to react more swiftly to the
conditions on the international market. As the subsidiary loan agreement
with TYT included the obligation of the firm to bear the foreign exchange
risk, the financial performance of the corporation is presently burdened by
the servicing of the debt that has increased nearly 8-fold since 1982 in
terms of current Turkish lira.
,A/ In 1981 110,000 cows had been inseminated by 111 insemination teams.
2/  The factory itself is around 4.969 m2 and the entire complex, including
stores, housing and social infrastructure, covers around 14,000 m .
J/  The remaining funds (about US$1.3 million) were transferred to other
components.



- 12 -
6.10     During the Mid-term Review it was agreed that MAFRA would develop a
long-term strategy for the livestock sector. A high level steering committe
would be established, supported by a small secretariat responsible for the
drafting of the strategy. The secretariat would be assisted by local and
expatriate consultants on 2-3 month assignments for specialized studies
needed in developing the strategy. For this purpose USS 500,000 was made
available under the project. Although a number of technical studies was
prepared covering a wider range of topics I/ , this did not. as yet, lead to
a concise long-term strategy of sufficient detail and clarity to be a useful
tool for further investment in the sector (paras 7.1, 9.4 and 10.2).
7. Proiect Sustaijnaility
7.1      The  objective  of  the  project  was  to  encouragethe integrated
development of Turkey's livestock resource. At this moment it is not
possible to judge to what extent the project will generate the level of
benefits as projected at the time of SAR, partly because the project is too
recent,  but  mostly  because  of  the  inadequacy  of  project  data.   The
sustainability of any livestock development programme will to a large extent
depend on whether a livetock sector strategy, reflecting present economic
ptlicy shifting to greater private sector involvement, will be formulated
and actively implemented (see also footnote of para. 6.6).
7.2      The sustainability of the dairy component will  be  dependent  upon
the degree to which the apparent marketing constraints can be overcome. It
is likely that dairy development would respond to precisely the same kind of
packaged  approach   which  has been so successful in the poultry component,
whereby the supply of feed inputs, services, management advice and credit is
integrated -with produce marketing arrangements. The extent to which GOT is
prepared to encourage private sector involvement in such an approach is
clearly in process of evolution, with the intensive areas in western Turkey
in  the  vanguard.  Also,  when  approaching  this  subject  during   future
development planning, the needs of each major consumption area and the milk
shed which supplies it, should be individually assessed, as shortages and
surpluses are highly localized and should be used to allow areas to
specialise according to their resources and skills. The cattle and sheep
fattening- comoonent, on the other hand, will continue to thrive, due to its
inherent profitability and known technology, thereby continu;ng to relieve
overstocked eastern Turkey.
7.3      Discussions  held  by  the  mission  indicate  that  the veterinary
authorities are aware of the need to reorganize the delivery system to
render it more effective and to encourage a greater degree of self-
employment of the large and rapidly increasing trained veterinary manpower
resource. A system of accreditation to channel professionals to specific
areas is one such proposal being discussed. The investment and effort which
GOT has put into veterinary education is now paying off in an abundance of
trained manpower, but this should now be matched with a revamped animal
health delivery system, to ensure efficient ahd effective services to
stockowners.
.1/ A complete list of these studies could not be made available to the PCR
mission.



-13 -
7.4      The  high  unit  cost  together with th-- burden placed on the GOT's
recurrent budget  render  the future of Al ser%   s, as envisaged under  the
project,  highly uncertain.  It  is doubtful  whecher         Al  should even be
attempted until there is a sufficient density of dairy farms to ensure that
a full time service has a chance of viability. Moreover, productivity in
terms of service per inseminator and per kilometer will have to be raised
significantly before such efficiency can be assured. This will be one of the
priority areas to be tackled in greater depth as part of future livestock
sector strategy, whereby the existing arrangements should be subjected to a
thorough technical and economic review.
7.5      A considerable number of investments still require  completion  for
which TKV and the RPC's require financing in order to finalize the original
Phase I. 1/ The sustainability of the poultry component will depend to a
large extent on whether this financing can be secured, whether the financial
viability of both VBH's and RPC's can be realized and whether the cost of
the technical. support services can be absorbed by the regional companies. A
higher density of poultry producers in any one area would allow both the
regional companies to operate more efficiently and the technical support
services to be provided more cost- effective. The continued integration with
TKV's operations, as well as its financial support. will probably be
required.
8. Bank Performance
8.1      During  the  project  preparation  phase,   the
Bank succeeded  in  reducing   the overall  size  of  the  project  to  more
realistic levels and tried, unsuccessfully, to include an FMD component and
to increase LDP's operating budget  as well as        its staffing. Yet, larger
design shortcomings, including the bias for imported against locally bred
cattle, the inappropriate technical package (large scale dairying and
inadequate attention paid to feed production and animal husbandry), the
inadequate attention paid to essential dairy marketing arrangements and the
high cost coupled with low efficiency of the AI proposals. could have been
avoided, if at the time of appraisal a greater effort had been  made           to
incorporate experiences obtained during the first four projects. Given that
the Third and Fourth project were barely underway at the time of appraisal,
the speed with which the fifth, conceptually more complicated, project was
pursued, appears to have  allowed  insufficient  time  for  this    process.
8.2      During  implementation,  the  Bank  proved  to  be fairly flexible,
albeit sometimes slow, in adjusting project design to the challenges posed
by the rapid changes in the Turkish economy, most notably high inflation and
rapid depreciation of the local currency. These changes allowed also some of
the basic design flaws to be overcome, in particular the change to allow
credit for locally bred cattle and domestically produced equipment and the
inclusion of a cattle and sheep fattening component. It is reported that the
poultry component was delayed by nearly one year, because of delays in
confirmation  of  the  Letters of Credit by TCZB    (even   though the Bank
had approved the contracts with the suppliers, due to delays in recognition
of the completion of the subsidiary loan agreement between Treasury and
,./ The most important items refer to two additional hatcheries for
production of day-old chicks, refrigerated transport, cold storage and
drying facilities for the feed mills, one feed pre-mix unit and capacity
expansinn of the grand parent stock farm.



- 14 -
TKV). Had this been done prior to tender, no such delays would have. been
necessary. A Mid-term Review, undertaken in 1986. allowed a thorough review
of the sectoral issues, but did not lead to significant changes in project
design and/or organizational arrangements. Given the timing of the review,
one year before the project's closing eate, this would have been probably
too much to expect.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1      Borrower performance is        difficult to assess due to the general
lack of data. Initial project implementation was delayed for a number of
reasons on GOT's side relating to slow recruitment of project staff and
procurement. By 1982, nine of the provinces were still not covered by
project staff but instead by staff seconded by Veterinary Services and
Agricultural Affairs of MAFRA. Apart from the fact that these staff did not
have a longer-term commitment to the project, they also frequently lacked
the appropriate background in fodder crop and animal husbandry required for
an effective support to participating farms and an equally effective
supervision of TCZB loans as envisaged at the time of appraisal.
9.2      As a result, Participating  farms  were  infrequently  visited  and
essential support services were only irregularly available. This situation
was reportedly aggravated due to inadequacy of LOP operating funds. The
Borrower    did  not,  on  a  number  of  occasions,          employ  and retain
consultancy staff. Finally, the Borrower did not comply with the covenant
which stipulates that adequate project data should be collected on physical
implementation, sub-loan disbursement and financial performance.
9.3      Significant delays in granting a consultancy contract  to  TKV  and
subsequent   administrative   delays  in  procurement  and  credit  approval
endangered on several occasions the successful implementation of the poultry
component. In particular the disbursements of the TCZB loans were slow to
the extent that although around Tl 1,000 million had been approved in 19B5
this was disbursed only in January 1988. As a result the purchasing power of
the     loans eroded substantially. A considerable  disbursement  was  still
pending while the PCR mission visited Turkey. The fact that TCZB loans are
fixed in nominal terms with no provision for adjustments for inflation.
aggravated the situation of erosion of farmers' working capital and
purchasing power further.
9.4      Most disappointing is that, although discussed at great length with
the Bank and finally agreed in 1986, the project has not led to the
formulation of a Livestock Sector Development Strategy due to delays in the
final formulation stage. In the absence of such a well-articulated strategy,
it is difficult to. justify future large-scale investment in the sector.
10. Proiject Relationshin
10.1     Although   basically  sound,  the  Bank-Borrower  relationship  can
generally be considered as having been characterized by a certain degree of
hesitancy in adjusting the project design when the project was confronted
with implementation difficulties, such as slow disbursement due to changing
macro-economic conditions and project staff disorientation due to the major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although at any one time
either   the   Borrower   or  the  Bank  suggested  changes  during  project
implementation, generally it took too long before changes were actually
achieved. The fact that the proposed foreign training programme could not be
fully achieved, and the failure to arrive at a sectoral strategy during the



- 15 -
life of the project, reflects to a certain extent this relationship.
10.2     More  generally  speaking,  the  following lessons could be learned
from the implementation of the Fifth Livestock Project.
i) A structural reorgani2ation of the project's main implementation
agency, should be followed by a detailed analys:s and a re-design
of the project's organi2ational and management arrangements. which
should be reflected in the Loan Agreement. Similarly. changes in
the macro-economic environment such as high domestic inflation and
depreciation  of  the local currency,   which affect, for  example,
the relative price of imported against locally produced goods as
well as the financial viability of project activities, should be
analyzed and, when necessary, reflected in a re-design of the
project.
ii) A large-scale (sectoral) development programme, phasel as in this
case through five seperately funded projects, should not be
initiated in the absence of a clear sectoral strategy, going beyond
the general objectives as expressed in the Five-year Plans.
iii) In order to ensure commitment to the implementation process, it is
highly recommendable to fully involve a future implementation
agency in the preparation and appraisal process, especially when
this agency operates in the private sector and is furthermore
expected to be also financially involved in the implementation
process.
iv) Withoutadequate monitoring of physical and financial implementation
of project activities, effective management and/or supervision of
the project are not feasible. It also prevents measuring project
impact.
v) Marketing difficulties should not be underestimated, especially
when the produce 's characterized by large volume and high
perishability. Reliance on parastatal organizations should only be
envisaged when there exists both a clear governement commitment to
undertake this task and the parastatal organization has sufficient
financial and infrastructural capacity to undertake the task
(especially when a large area is to be covered).
11. =onsultaneX ServireL
11.1     Table 12 shows a list of consultants employed under the project. It
appears that the list is incomplete due to lack of project implementation
date at Ministry of Agriculture level after the Ministry s reorganization.
Of considerable concern is that, at present, a full list of consultants
technical reports is not readily available to Ministry or expatriate
consultancy staff.
11.2     In general, there appears to have been a reluctance within  LOP  to
employ foreign consultants to assist in project implementation and where
they were employed, there was insufficient continuity to lead to the desired
results. Most successful appears to have been the technical assistance
provided by the Shirley Institute for the Mohair component and a private
conultant, Mr. C.f. Williams, who advised on methods to improve vaccine
production dt Pendik (Theileriosis, Brucellosis) and ETHK (FMDI.



- 16 -
12. Prosect_Documentation and Qata
12.1        The le9al documents were amended a number  of times to
reflect a changed situation and allow flexible implementation of
the project.   Several  of the  loan covenants  have not, or  not
tully, been complied with (see Annex table, 6). Audit reports, for
instance, were often submitted late but the Bank accepted this
shortcoming because the reports received consistently stated that
loan funds had been used for the purposes for which they were
intended. The SAR proved to be of limited value to the Borrower
as a framework for implementation as most of the technical
parameterss activity phasing, costs, etc. were not detailed in
the report itself but in separate working papers to which project
staff  did  not  have  access.    The  description  of  the  main
assumptions   regarding   farm   budget   analyses   and   credit
arrangements was not always adequate to facilitate the monitoring
and management by project staff of the main project components.
12.2    Data on pbysical and financial project impleumtation is scarce and
generally unsatisfactory.   A number of reasoms are offered, of which
apparently the reorganization of the Mianstry of Agriculture which dissolved
the project's implementation agency and dispresed its project data, appears to
have been the min one. The particular relationship between the Ministry and
TCZB has also not contrlbuted to the collection of a consistent set of data.
At any rate, at the tim of preparation of the PCR, insufficient data were
available to allow a meaningful analysis of financial or economic impact of
the project's major components, or to provide estimates of the portion of
project costs financed by the Government or sub-borrowers.  Due to high
inflation, costs in TL increased between sub-loan approvals and expenditures,
causing sub-borrowers share to be higher than anticipated in sub-loan
applications.



-17 -                    Appondlx
Page I of4
COMMENTS OF
THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY ANO RURAL AFFAIRS
ON THE DRAFT COMPLETION REPORT
OF THE FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.   As  mentioned  in  various parts of the  report,  it  is  an
important deficiency not to include in the project a marketing
organization  for the produce cr about 2000  dairy  farms.   This
deficiency  has  caused  the f''mers to abandon  the  project  or
become uninterested in extension services, and also caused the
products to be sold below market value.
2.   Exclusion  of cattle and sheep fattening operations from the
project at the outset,which after two years of negotiations were
included for the last two years of the project lifetime, was an-
other important deficiency.
3.   A  review of the five consecutive livestock projects reveals
that a thorough study has not been made to improve animal health
services, and develop research and researchers in this area.
Proposals to modernize the existing animal health services system
under the project have always been defeated by the Bank missions
stating "it is being considered".
4.   The  report states that there was a lack of livestock sector
development strategy.   However, HAY-GEL management has, from the
beginning,conveyed the need for such a study to the Bank experts,
but financing for the study has been approved by the Bank in the
last  year of the project.   As stated in the report,  data  have
been compiled but a report could not be prepared.
5.   According to the report,  in spite of the Bank's flexibility
to new proposals and changes during implement8tion, expectations
from the project have not been realized mainly because of high
inflation  and rapid changes in the Turkish economy.   We do  not
share these views.   Contrary to what is said in the report,  the
Bank has strongly ooposed the proposed changes in project
implementation and it took a long time for those proposals which
were accepted. Some examples are the delays in:
a)   establishing new farms not with imported  heifers,  but
with domestic heifers raised in existing farms,
b)   the procurement of a personal computer costing $  2.000
for  keeping family records of the livestock.   Until that  time,
data were hand written on cards.



Appendix
Page 2 of 4
As for the high inflation as a cause of failure of the
project;   pregnant   heifer  imports  are   being   successfully
implemented in the same high inflation environment since 1987,
financed through domestic and other sources. The difference bet-
ween the two is that, our project is supported by incentives in
milk, feed and medicine.
6.   It  is said in the report that Turkish farmers do not  trust
artificial   insemination.   This  is  not the case except  for  a
specific area. Generally, there is big demand for artificial in-
semination and in 1989, 700.000 cows were inseminated.
7. In various parts of the report it is stated that the 1984 re-
organization   of  the  MAFRA  has  adversely  affected   project
implementation and caused project data to be lost.   In  reality,
General Directorate of HAY-GEL has been eliminated in the course
of reorganization but all personnel and documents have been
transferred   to   the  General  Directorate  of   Projects   and
Implementation (GOPI).   All data starting from the 1st Livestock
Project can be found in the files of the Externally Financed
Projects Department of GDPI.
8.   In  the "Borrower Performance" section of the report,  it is
stated that project implementation was delayed because of late
recruitment of project personnel by the impl-ienting agency.    In
reality, this was caused by the inability of the foreign contrac-
tor employed for personnel recruitment in finding the qualified
experts for the project.
9. Another asDect of the Livestock Projects is that they did not
contain any serious personnel training program except for live-
stock  procurement and study tours.   Under a project with   $125
million foreign financing, not even one individual has been
trained in animal health, fattening or breeding to get a master's
degree.
10.     While the report states that the poultry component has been
successfully implemented, the Ministry of Agriculture has received
complaints from 133 participating farmers concerning high prices for feed
and chicks supplied and low prices received for broilers.  Satisfactory
replies have not been provided by TKV to these complaints.



- 19 -                      Appendix
Page 3 of 4
TIM VILEWS Of 2MICULTURAL SAW OF TURKEY CONC!RNTh THE WORLD
SkK S REFORT R!TED TO THE COPLETION REPORT OF THE FIFTH
LIVESTOCX PROJECT
Under the protocol greement signed between HAM  and TCZD in
order to determine the principles of implementation of the
V.Li.vetock Project TO-1862  our circulars numbered 1981/49S1 and
1984/5169 were publithed.Taking advantage of the experiences troam
the . ialemntat*.n   of  the  firstsecondtthlrd   and  fourth
Livostock  Project,in  particular  small a1  medium   sze ofam-
ouers actually deallAg with cattle breeding were benefited from
the fifth Livestock Project.
On lending,in the Broiler Project and Farm Development Planu
prepared by Developmnt Foundation of Turkey(DPT)and MRA  10% of
eity,90%  of loan  were considered  !or the general invoetment
cost and TCZ8 extended credit in accordance with these rates.
Furthermore,in the determination of equity for the financig
of large =cal farms,taking into consideration of the cash  nd In
kid opportunities of farmers,farmers' contribution which doesn't
exceed mail- 209 was required.1rsated of paying    the famrse
contribution in advance,every kind of essentlal facility was
provided  for  the  farmers  to  pay  equity   contrlbution  in
installment during the implementation of the project.In the
lending process of credits given under the fifth Livestock
Project,the validity of the projecte,the reliability of the
ewterpri1e ad   the possibility  of the  project to  crete extra
production were accepted  as a security in favou   of the farmers
having small and  medium size agricultural enterprise.Large fam
omers demanding credit had enough  assets for secursty  to met
the credit to be given,however in case of insuf icient
security,personal  guarantee   was  admitted  to   ensure  the
implementation of the project.
Although every kind of facility vas provided by TCZB for the
project,bottlenecks in Turkish economy,the effects of inflation,
the depreciation of Turkish Lira,and the difficulties In the
marketing and the evaluatlon of livestock production had negative
effects on dairying and they led to decrease in demnds on this
s*ject and to the close of the enterprises.
Whl1e the problems that appeared under the Sub-pro3ect of
L lvewtock  Production   and  Improvement wece  attecting  dairy
productlon  nogativelythe demnd  for short-tsrm  beef fattening
operational credits rem and towards the end of 1984 the demands
increased.All the credits qgvon under the fifth livestock pro3ect
and all the opportunities allocated by the World BanK were
received by TCZB and allocated to the farmers.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. /*..



20-                       Appendix
Page 4 of 4
Although the implemntation of the  th'd  Livestock Project
cncludd LAn the aecnd Part of 1984 And the  laplewntation of
the   fourth   LivestCk Project  ended   on  Jun  30  1985,
accoding to the agreement made with the World Bank,deands rram
the said projects implementation ares were admitted to be
financed  trm   the  ftt  Livestock  sources   after June  30
t965olowsevr,au the fifth Livestock Project Funds were utilized
loo af demandx we  nt frm the cources of the TOZB.
An  HAM   demanded  the  preparation  of the compleion
report,some Information and docUMntx were taken froam TCB'
records and submitted to MRA.
The mnitoring and supervision of the enterprises established
through the credit8 given widor V.Livestock Project and other
projects will be carried out by TCZs8 on definite periods till the
implemntation  of  the  projets  and  repaymnt  period  have
tarminatad.mFRA  and Development Foundation of Turkey (DFT) are
reguarly informed  by TC2D about the problems  dtermned at the
en  of the moitoring    and supervision ativities and about the
measues that should be taken in order to ftnd mutual solution.
At OFT and MARA are responsible for the proJect technically,
it  is  impossible  for  us to  tell our opinions about the
peparation of Far  Developmnt Plans and Broiler Project, the
training  of  the  farmers,technical  and   helth  services,and
artificial insemination-
TC2S ig  ready  to cooperate  in crder to reach  determind
trgets and performens of the proJect, and TCZS accepts this as
a duty.



- 21 -
1. ReaOted Dank loama and Credlts 1/
Credit               Purpose            Year of effectiveness              Statusicoments
Intensive Oiary        USt 4., mlillon                  1971             To *stablish a  ncleus of over 3.000
Production                                                                imported pedigra folstein animals on
Ce  234-TV                                                               private  farms  In and around the four
main silk consuming centres. Project
Complatton Report, PCR. dated August 9,
1977. Project Parformaic Audit Roport
go. 2542 of June 12, 1979. A total of
159 beneficeares.
Second Livestock      USS 16 million                    1972              CoMprised two components; a fattening and
Development                                                               * villag  development component. The
cR 330-TU                                                                 project comprised 20 provinces. Project
completion in 1980. A total of 2.948
beneficiares.
Third Livestock       USS 21.1 million                  197t              Repeater project of the first project. Over
*evelopmnt                                                                10.000 pedigree cattle were imported for
Loan 1265-TU                                                             upgrading purposes. A total of 610
befeficieries.
Fourth Livtstock      USS 24  tillion                   1978              To consolidate and expand the
Development                                                              modernization of village livestock
Leoan 1586-TV                                                             devOlopment In *astern Turkey initiated
under the Second Project and to extend to
the eastern provinces the improved dairy
concept, developed In western and central
Turkey under the First and Third projects.
,1 A short description of the first four livestock devlopmeont projects may be found In the SAN             of the
fifth project; Report Mo.: 2894-TV dated Nay 9, 1980.



- 22 -
2. Project Timetable
ttem              ~~~~Plannefd             Actual
Preparation 1J                             Sept. 1978-August 1979
Appraisal mission                              Oct./Nov. 1979
Loan negociations                             Apr. 17-22, 1980
Board approval                                   3 June 1980
Loan signature                                   6 June 1980
Loan effectiveness 2   6 Oct. 1980 _/           22 Oct. 1980
Project completion    31 Dec. 1986              31 Dec. 1987
Loan closing           30 June 1987 4/          31 Dec. 1987 5/
1/  General  Directorate  of  Livestock  Development  Projects  (LDP) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MFAL) assisted by two Bank
missions and an FAO/WB CP mission which visited Turkey between September
1978 and August 1979. The preparation report was finalized by CDP and
submitted to the Bank by Government in October 1979.
Z/  Loan  effectiveness was delayed due to delays in execution in subsidiary
loan agreements.
3/ To allow more time for meeting conditions of effectiveness, the date was
changed to 6 November 1980.
4/  The closing date was extended once.
51 The loan accounts were kept open to accommodate withdrawal applications
submitted by June 30, 1988 on contracts approved before the closing date.



-23 -
3. Lgan Disblur munts
Cumulativa Estimated and Actual D&%bursoments
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year       Appraisal                   Actual as X ot
and Semester         Estimate         Actual        Estimate
1981 June                1.00            -                -
1982  December           3.80           0.02             0.5
June               5.30           1.31           24.7
1983  December           8.80           2.69           30.6
Jurn              12.30           4.62           37.6
1984  December          17.80           6.43           36.1
June              23.30           8.80           37.8
1995  December          34.80          11.46            32.9
June              38.30          16.35           42.7
1986  December          44.80          23.89            53.3
June              48.30          32.55           67.4
1987  December          51.00          35.27            69.2
June                             37.52           73.6
1988  December                         47.75           93.6
June                             50.43           98.9
1989  December                         51.00           100.0
Date of Final Disbursements October 31± 1989



- 24 -
3a. Withdrawal of thb ProMseds of the Loan
OrLginal Allogation 1/
(Us* 0000)
Qatmary                                         nAmgunt    Paregnt
(1)  Livestock and semen                         12,310      24.14
(2;  Machinery$ equipment and vehicles           18,980      37.22
(3) Civil works
(a)  Under Part B.2(c) of the Project 2/       225      0.44
(b)  Under Part F of the ProJect 3/            120      0.24
(4) Inputs for livestock and poultry
production
Ca)  Under Part A.1 of the Project 4/          725      1.42
(b)  Under Part A.2 of the Project 5/        3,370      4.61
(5)  Consultants' services                        4,235       8.30
(4)  Training                                     1,035       2.03
(7)  Unallocated                                 10,000      19.60
TOTAL                                   51,000    100.00
1/  Loan Agreement dated June 6, 1980, Schedule 1.
2/ Housing for LDP technical servic, field staff.
3/ Construction of mohair processing plant.
4/ Dairy cattle, Merino sheep and Angora goat development
through TCZB sub-loans.
5/ Poultry development through TCZB sub-loans.



-25-
3b. Withdrawal of ths Proceeds of the Loan
Revised Allocation 1/
(US$ '000)
11)  Imported livestock and semon                5,000        9.9
(2) Machinery, equipment, laboratory supplies
and vehicles (excluding items procured
directly by beneficiaries under Part A
of the Project)                            10,000       19.6
(3) Civil works
(a)  Under Part 9.2(c) of the Project 2/      500       1.0
(b)  Under Part F of the Project 2/           250       0.5
(c)  Under Part S of the Project 3/           300       0.6
(4) Sub-loans
(a)  Under Part A.i of the Project
(other than for imported livestock
or items financed under Category 2
above) 4/                             14,680      28.8
(i)   Short-term sub-loans for
livestock fattening
(ii)  Medium-term sub-loans
(b)  Under Part A.2 of the Project
(other than for items financed
under Category 2 above) 2/            10,000       19.6
(5)  Consultants* services Si                    4,235        8.3
(6) (a) Training by local nationals under
Part 9.2(a) of the Project               100       0.2
(b)  Other training                           935       1.8
(7)  Unallocated                                 5,000        9.8
TOTAL                                  51,000      100.0
1/  Loan Agreement dated June 6, 1980, Schedule 1, as amended on
November 18, 1982, and July 21, 1993.
2/ Sme as for original allocation.
3/ Establishment of poultry grandparent stock farm (under
revised institutional arrangements).
4/ For dairy, beef, sheep and goat production and for beef and
sheep fattening.
5/ Including preparation of master plan for meat, milk and feed
processing (amendment of November 11  902).



- 26 -
Sc. Withdrawal of the Proceds of the Loan
Final Allocation
(US$ 000)
mRUnt    Pfercnat
Category (1)                                      4,091        8.0
Category (2)                                     16,938       33.2
Category (3) (a)                                     -         -
Category (3) (b)                                     240       0.5
Category (3) (c)                                     301      0Q6
Category (4) (a)                                  3,217        6.3
Category (4) (a) (t)                              ±1,216      22.0
Category (4) (a) (ii)                             2,433        4.8
Category (4) (b)                                  6,205       12.2
Category (5)                                       5,476      10.7
Category (6) (a)                                      41       0.1
Category (6) (b)                                     842       1.6
TOTAL                                   519000      100.0
Sources Monthly Disbursement Summary, November 1988.



-27
4.  Pro-ict Goat and Finangino
A. Prolect Cost I/
(US$ million)
Anaraisal Estimate
Lgeal     EL      Total
Livestock production and brood
improvement                                 i4.6    15.0       29.6
Village poultry development                    10.3    10.0      20.3
Animal health program                           4.7     1.5       6.2
Artificial breading                            20.6     5.5      26.1
Meat processing                                 0.8     2.3       3.1
Mohair processing                               1.0     2.4       3.4
Total bass cost                                52.0    36.7      88.7
Price contingencies                            22.0    14.3      36.3
Total cost                                    74.0    51.0    125.0
3. ProAect FinancinaL
Planned                  evised/Final-
LIS$ Milligo     %         USS Million      X
XBRD                     51.0       40.8            51.0
Government               45.5        36.4            1/
TCZB                     22.6        18.1           29.1
Sub-borrowers             5.9         4.7            1/
Total financing         125.0       100.0            1/
11  No data on sub-borrowers actual contributions were available to the
PCR mission.  Due to high  inflation, costs In TL increased between
sub-loan approvals and expenditur.s, causing sub-borrower share to be
higher than anticipated In sub-loan applications. Data on Government
contribution avallable to PCR mission also inadequate to prepare
reliable figures.



- 28 -
5. Project Results - Direct Benefits 1/
SAR                           Estimated
Indficator                     Uni      Estimate       Actual            a^t Closing
...... DA ,
SARLstiMAte
A. Livestock Production
Dairy Farm Establishment
O airy                      No      1,15k             4748o2
- Cattle Impact              No        6008           747           480          27
Cattle Fattening             No          -          9,196           n/a         n/a
Sheep Fattening              No          -          3,990           n/a         n/a
Merino Sheep Enterprises    No         300            628           568          189
Angora Goat Enterprises       No       250            554           360          144
B. Poultry Production
Village Broiler Houses       No        600            939           653 ?        108
Processing Centres           No         12             12            12          100
Poultry Meat                 Ton    6,700               -       21,314 Z/       n/a
Day-old Chickens             000    7,200               -        12,687 a/      176
C. Mohair TOns                   Ton      675                          250 4/        37
1/ Due to lack of data, it has been impossible to re-estimate the financial rate of
return for the individual components, nor the economic rate of return for the
entire project. More details on physical implementation in table 8 of Part III.
In the same Table are also indicated the inconsistencies between the various
sources of data.
/ Production Liveweight in 1987.
lJ/ Production in 1987.
A/ Estimated in 1988, quarter of production capacity.



-29-
6. Status of Covenants 1/
ReadlAine for
coen^nt  Sub1et               ~~ComRilance    Statms
Loan Agreement
3.05(b)(iii)  Employment of interna-        03/81        Not com-
tionally recruited live-                  plied with
stock techn. specialist
3.06(b)       Employment of 2 inter-        03/81        Recruited
nationally recruited                      03/82
poultry consultants
3.08(a)       Prepare plan for nation-    12/85          Partly com-
al livestock improvement                  plied withy
number of
technical
studies un-
dertaken
3.08(c)(i)    Prepare study to deter-       12/86        Not com-
mine suitable charges                     plied with
for artificial insemi-
nation services
3.08(c)(ii)   Introduce user charges       Promptly      Not com-
for artificial insemi-    after ±2/86   plied with
nation services
3.10(a)       Employment of interna-        03/81        Recruited
tionally recruited
mohair consultants
3.12(d)       Prepare project com-        Within 6       Available
pletion report             months of      in English
closing       March L999
date
4.03(b)       Have project accounts       Throughout    Substan-
audited and furnish        implemen-      tially com-
audit report to Bank       tation         plied with
not later than 3/7
months after end of FY
Schedule 1,   No disbursement for         Since 04/80   Employed
5(b)          Part A.i unless LDP has
employed 6 additional
veterinarians and 5 ad-
ditional agronomists



- 30 -
Schedule ± ,  No diobur,snont for                        Complied
5(c)          equipping Theileriosis                     with
control team. unless
production of Theiler-
iouis vaccine has
reched 50,000 dozes
per year
1/ Selected covenants only.



7. Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff InputsL'
FY79   FY80   FY81   m  2   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   Total
Preappraisal             23.7    2.0                                                                 25.7
Appraisal                        57.5                                                                57.5
Negotiations                      8.3                                                                 8.3
Supervision                       0.6   33.1   11.2   23.4   12.8   15.6   37.1   19.4   11.9   165.1
Other                     0.1    1.3             2.5    0.5                                           4.4
Total                    23.8   69.7   33.1   13.7   23.9   12.8   15.6   37.1   19.4   11.9   261.0
1/ In staffweeks; source: TRS.
S7OOZ/pl 2



32 -
B. Missions
No. of      Man-days           a     a            Performance           Te  of
dicLtin       Month]YUar       Pmrsons  in field ia/                         Statuns 2 V  JIUM /   Trend 4/    Problems 1/
Supervision
I i/           3-4/81           4           19          E. L, M, AH          2            1               p
2 7/           5-6/81           2            2               L, L            2            1               p
3               6/81            1           12                E              2            1               0
4 /            10/81            1            9                L              2            1             nlq
, 1/           12/81            1           26                L              2            1              F, M
6              10182            2           19               L. A            2            2              F. M
7               5/83            2           15               A, E            2            3             0, F
8              10/83            1           12                A              2            2              0, F
9 Q/            4/84            2           17               A, A            2            2              0. F
102 /            6/84            1             2               A             n/a          n/a             n/q
11it/          9-10/84           1.          24                A              2            2              M. F J/
12              5-6/85           1           n/a               E
13              11/85            1           n/a               E
14              4-5/86 IQ/       3           19            E, AN, AN          2            2
15               7/86            1            3                L
16             9-10/86           3           14             A, L, L
17               6/87            1           10               n/a
18              10/87            1            8                E
19              11/88            1            2                E
PCR mission      4/89            2           22               E, L
,/ E a Economist/Financial Analyst; L a Livestock Specialist;    * Mohair Specialist;
AN * Animal Health Specialist.
/I 1 * Problem free/minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 * Major problems.
/ 1 - Improving; 2 a Stationary; 3 a Oeteriorating.
Q/ f a Financial; M a Management; T a Technical; P - Political; 0 - Other.
J/ All part-time except the economist.
Z/ This mission was limited to supervision of the on-farm component.
Ql Part-time only, in conjunction with other supervisory activities.
2/ Partial supervision only.
lI/ Mid-term review mission.
JJ/ To follow-up preparation of draft PCR and Livestock Development Strategy Study (LOSS).
,a/ Type of problems and status no longer indicated in supervision reporting farms.
.UI In certain instances the number of days the mission actually spent on supervision
of Livestock V was not always clear from supervision reports.



- 33-
Page 1
Phvsical Imnlementation
Number of Dairy Farms Established
an    iaa    nu    nu   in             M      Mi       laLi  &  Tratien In 1989
IL         I
ALt&?ii it
S head         48      46     64      59    19S   1V5        17       S54       74        356         64
10-12 head          I      1S      16      18     3S      42       6      139       19         89         64
IS head          -       1       3      1       3       -      -         8        1          9          ?
20 head          -       I       1      6       a       3      2        21        3         16         67
-5 head          -       -       1      -       - I            -         2        0        nla        n/a
30 head        -J                4     4        1- .5           1       U       .4         _J
Total               56     71      89      85    244    176       26       747 21  100        480         64
SAR Estimate
Dairy              100    10S    120    165    330    330          -    1.150               1,1S0        100
Cattle Improv.   _D        50     iU     40    .I    2*0          -     .a0 -A                          lint
Total              1S0    155    190    24S    480    S30          -    1,750               1,750        100
Actucl et %-of
iALAMUAS            37     4S      47      35     S1      33       -        43                  27
J, This figure does not relate with page 6 of Table 8 showing that 1,592 loans were
opened tor this component. It may havo been that TCZB opened two loans for each
producer; one relatively to the animal purchases and the other for the other costs.
The difference would then be explalned by the credits that were opened, but never
actually approved. TCZI. in agrement with the Sank, stopped auditing Livestock V
loans separately from 1985 onwards.
I A total of 5,136 In-calf heifers were distributed.



- 34 -
Table a
Page 2
Physical Implementation
Number of Cattle Fattenina Onerations
1981~~~i                 I=      12u  12  1986a T8
Actua1 ;/ -  -  -       ....   .... 9,196   ....    9,196
Number of Sheeo Fattenina Onerations
~UL   I~Z         JiU   im U          fl ~2Z  ia1a
Actual 1/          -       -      -      . .    3,990   ....    3,990
T/ this activity was included in the Loan Agreement in 1983. No data could be obtained regarding
the phasing of the component. TCZB figures show a total number of 11,093 loans opened between
1984 and 1987 comparing to 13,186 operations as reported by MAFRA.



-35-
Table 8
Page 3
Phvsical Implementation
Number of Merino Sheen Enterorises Established
i9 & Xtian a98  m 19,4i                       Total    In Ooeration in 1989
Actkual            12      18     19    26    139    414         -      6281I/       568         91
SAR Estimate       25     25      35     40      75    100       -       300         300        100
Actual as X of
SAR estimate       48     72      S4     65    185    414        -      209          190        n/a
,/  A total of 59,036 Merino sheep were distributed.



- 36 -
Page 4
Phvsical Implementation
Number of Angora Goat Enternrises Establishment
.1
1981 19113 n2 .;,2 19116 87 ~~~Tiotl,n inraXn 1n 9R9
Actual              -      1     10     66    259    218       -       SS4 1/      360         GS
--AR Estimate      20     20     30     3S      60     85              2S0         250        100
Actual as X ot
SAR estimatu       0       S     33    190    430    256               222         144        n/a
j/ A total of S.300 Mohair goats were distributed.



-37-
Tabfle 8
Page 5
Physical Implementation
PoultrX Comnonent
1981   1982   I,      I8    I2 1986   12 I           A M               in operation
i D 1989
Village Broiler Houses  i/    -        74    102    166    233    244    120         -       939         653 21
Processing Centres             -        3      2       3       2      2       -      -        12
Hatcheries                     .                                  - 6     . .-                 6 1/
Parent Stock Houses                     -             31      61     15      12      -       119 'I/
Poultry Producer Credit
- Total (USS million)          -      1.15   1.4    2.1    2.9    3.6    2.0         -       13.2
- Per producer (USS '000a      -    16.50  13.7   12.7   12.5   14.8   16.7          -       14,1
Broiler Production
(liveweight ton)                              9.817  15.603 21.314
Day-old chick prod. ('000)                                6,060   9,372 12,687
SAR Estimate
Village Broiler Houses         -       28     68    108    162    234         -      -       600
Processing Centres             -        2      2       2       3      3              -        12
Parent Stock Farms (Hatcheries)         1       1      2       2      3       -      -         9
I/ Credit delivery according to TCZB is 932 sub-loans to poultry producers.
21 Informat.on from TKV suggests that most if not all VBH's are still in operation. See
also the footnote of pars. 6.2 of Part 1.
1/ Sometimes there is some confusion over the term Parent Stock Farm. The Appraisal Report
actually refers to hatcheries. The nine planned at the time of appraisal would have
an annual capacity of around 27 million. Later, it was decided to reduce the number of
hatcheries to 6 with a total annual capacity of 30 million; four of which are in operation
while another two are under construction. The Government draft PCR also
refers to parent stock farms, which in fact are so-called parent stock houses for
further distribution of chicks; A total of 119 are reported to have been established.



-38-                                                Table 
Page b
PhXsical Imn]eMentatJon
Credit Delivery 1I
A Da.ry and Cattle Breedino
1. No. of loans (No.)                 2      185        77       119      513       610        86    1592
2. Amount of Credit
opened JTL million)            1.4    272.3    136.0    274.6  1,374.9  2,207.7    402.7   4,669.6
3. Av. Amount per Loan (TL '000) 700    1.472    1,766    2,307    2,680    3,619    4,683              n/a
B. Cattle/Sheep Fattening
1. No. of loans (No.)                 -        -         -       556    5.218    4,706        613    11,093
2. Amount of Credit
opened (TL million)              -         _         -    1,606   15.030   18,185    2,936    37,757
3. Av. Amount per Loan (TL '000)   -           -         -    2,889    2,880    3,864    4,790          n/a
C. Poultry Development
1. No. of loans (No.)                 -       57       100       170      235       242       128        932
2. Amount of Credit
opened (TL million)              -    1S9.6    330.0    782.0  1,750.5  2,410.7  1,611.3   7,044,1
3. Av. Amount per Loan (TL '000)   -    2,800    3,300    4,423    7,449    9,962   12,588              n/a
),/ See footnote J/ of pages 1, 2 and 5 of Table 8. Figures relate to Credit opened. Over the project
period 226 cattle breeding loans; 99 cattle fattening and 180 broiler production credits were cancelle
An unknown number were never fully protessed.



- 39 -
PhXsical Parameters - Poultry Comnonent (1905-87)
Production of Broiler (liveweight)                         9,817          15,603         21,314
Daily chick production 17000)                              6,060           9.372         12,687
Production of feed (Ton)                                  24,321         40.137          47,392
Transformation rate of feed into meat                      2.49            2.41           2.21
Mortality rate (%)                                         9.49            5.61           6.34
Average of livewe1ght (kg)                                1.797           1.780          1.804
Poultry-houses (No.)                                         330            547            653
SOfURCE: MAFRA, draft PCR.



- 40 -
Table 10
Page 1
Indicative Financial Farm Budget 5-Cow Dairy Farm
(in constant 198- TL)
1      2       3       4       1       6       I   640
.----------
Cash li,flow:
l._rubev of  11i coJ                     L       4.0    4.0    4.1       4.0    4.0      4.0    4.0
Z.Wu1&,y11d {(torwesIg)                 3.0    3.5    3.8    4.0    4.0    4.0          4.0     4.0
).lotel silk ptodctios (Tw i)           12.0   14.0   15.2   11.0   10.0   14.0    16.0   16.0
4.01k "Sles arce (1000 Tloie)           176.0   27A.0  P1.0   17S.O   175.0            171.0    175.0   USA
5. 1nes f,u *Sil  sales (1000 I1)      2330.0  24040.0  2h.O   M30.0   3L0.0   300.0  *00.0  2800.0
1.Cul.1w                                                         1.0   L0       1.0     I.e     1.0
2.9ice (1000 t7/heed)                  410    413.0   418.0  418.0   40        418.0    130    418.0
3.C,ll cew "e" I cm (1000 Tn)            0.      0.0    0.0   418.0   413.0   41.0   423.   413.0
.Vearl1in stock                          0.0    1.0    2.0    1.0    3.0         1.0    2.0      1.1
price (1000 uLhe)                      540.0   140.0  140.0   140.0   50.0   50.0  540.0   S40.0
t.Calf sales lam (1oD T)                 0.0   540.0  10.0  540.0  1010.0   540.0  110.0   310.0
I.Calf                                   1.0     2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0        1.0    1.0      1.0
*.Price (1O lV I/ed)                   56.0    5.0   11.0   11.0   15O   15.0  1M0   156.0
O.Cat slt es lncoe (100 Ti.)            M6.0      .0   156.0   116.0   15.0  16.0  15.0   16.0
10.Ital nimal "ls loo m10 (I )            5.o   616.O  126   114.0  1T14.0  1U4.0    .0   164.0
'foul Ctsk Inflow (100 11)               326.   3146.   3U6.0  214.0  4410  ;14.0  414.0  4W4.0
.....            .... .o...  us....  a..... _usm_ _ ..  *_em                                   
csb outnfs
A.  Ivsta    Cost:
Cattle Pucae40.
Nachiner                                 100.0
&A1 diugs                               4000.
Crop astelisbe.t                         330
Otes                                      0.0
Total i,stat cost:                       0
3. Oewatlog costs:
Cncentrated Ned Purecase:
1.0uantity (Imn)                         33      9.3    6.1      9.3     LS3    .3       9.6    10.1
2.Pric (1000 TIto)                      12.0   U.0  120.0   120.0    0.0  130.0  1*0.0   120.0
M.tal ct  (1000 n) (Te)                11.0  U104.0   973.0  1104.0    5.0  1210    7L6.0  11.0



- 41 -
Page Z-
Indicative Financial Farm BudLet 5-Cow Dalry Farm
(in constant 1987 TL)
1       2        3       4        5       4        7   6.W0
t " n vo e,o test:
1.Altalfe site (dc)                        10.0      634    100    U1.        11.0  e .0    11.0   1u.0
2.Cost Per dc'e  ( lW0 t1)                  2.0    2M.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    21.0    25.0         5.0
3.1t1 cost (1000 11)                       25.0    00.0   20.0   mA.   Ms.0   *               A".    m.0
4.v*tcb atm  (t)                           10.1      3.0    10.0    13.0    1.0    11.0    13.0   U1.0
.Cost we dece (o0 Tn)                       1U.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    18.0    10.0  13.0    180
6.lotel cost (1000 TI)                     2630   144.0   160.0   2M4        21.0   193.0   130.0   *o0
V"Oserwry *osesos
.. ...............
l.vStoct _haw                               5.0      7.0     9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     L.0
2.Cost et etel (1000 T1)                    5.9      5.9 S     .9      .9      1.S    51.1       9      5.U
3.tota1 et (1oC  TI)                       29.5    41.)    53.1    5fI    13.1    6.1    93.1    941
Other costs:
............
Bulding Sa1ntefanco:                       25.0    50.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    15.1       7.0    5.0
Electr..,.t earna  ostl                     21.0    21.0    21.0    21.0  n3.0    21.0    21.0    n.0
===v.- ..    I                                       I.1......--*-..*--*  
loatel Opating costs.                        153   14.3   1455.1  1l65.1  1540.1  162.1  1702    17.1
loatel cash outflow                         109.9  143J  14 55.1  16.1  15404   144.3  1702.1  1715.1
65t Fianial Cab flow (Oef  finacing):  462.S   1566.   2440    2240.9   2913.0   I             *751.3   42.9
*e.m   o.e.    e8         *.             .          m        me
Mii 27.31



fifth L    Uvtock  e 5lgmet Pr.jat - r                                       Fifth t1 stock 0aenlopt Projct - PtR
FI     L PRICES ( A     )  1/                                             20 bt  fatteming - 2 bat  p.&. Faum  7d
(in 71)           -R                                                         f1iOW    ANlD IIWS
calene  ear                                                                           lledw
..~~~~~~~~~........ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         ...i ;;;i--- 
Uit    I.to 2.0.                                                                                          -c
uiht       t       2 to 20
Out,uts                                                                                                                                                  .4
Ft;ted cattle  kI/M             m                            Copn    t
1NOW              at            150
lnputs                                                          ACTIVHV PATTU-
cattle forfa*t.  mpnut          tl9g                               20 hd cattl* fattenin        Loeew          1.0       1,0
orlay feed       te.         n8. 4
U,aat frad       ton         loom1                           Ob. PtOdUCtia,
Wenf   ra        ten         lo,00,                             fatened  attle                  kglwm       7 .0  7.400.0                             So
bsiesw  ak    ten            £s0boflaw                                                            at         150.0    150.0
Sar bet  ulp  tUN            °5 400
beat   putr p  too        3500                             Sales                                                                                                          O.
stneraws   ten         ifattened cattle k.Wlt                                                         7.400.0  7.400.0
Now)   y                         at          150.0     50.0
tmnt                               t2
few  so  41000                            ~~~~~Buildinsp                   "alu   S.M1.000.0          -0
Fully labor  ad  I.m                           ~~~~~~~Others                    valve  5.55.93.0 
my~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                        *tr tM 11.3                                     1.1SL.
11:32                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~cattle for fat.  kg/it      4,000.0  4,010.0                           0
arley feed                   too           10.7     10.7
11    Constant  1987  prices.                                               9;a b; Plpn                     ten           3.5      3 .1
iblesse                      ton            2.1      2.1
mea strew                    too            1.       1.1
Nimerls                      tooi           0.2      0.2
SOURCE:  MAFRA.                                                               Seoii705                      ale      0455.  7,3.
family labor                  ad           50.0     50.0                            .
ay5   m 11:01



- 43 -
TabLe fl
P_ .
Page c
20 he  fattulq - * Nc p.G. F*r  adil
FIlMMIAL  tU
(In 1100e0)
With Projet
I       *       3       *       5      6    I to t0
-i....... 7. ..... T      1.-.           7.... T, w;
Main Prdcto
Fnattend cattle                   0,54s.0 6,549.0 6,549.0 6,549.0 6,49.0 6.50.0 6,649.0
MWAnur                               22.5    2.5    22.5  2U.5    22.5    22.5   22.5
Sub-Taotl Nei" Production            6,7.5;IE 651.56,171.  657    6,71.  6,51.5 6,51.
S -tet Vl of1 Prdutio                 ssyi.s S,S?I.S 6,sn.s s.sn.s s.sn.Ss sni.s s.sn.s
Mt Vale Of Prdution                  6,571.5 6.571.5 6,571.5 6s5sn.5 6,571.5 6,5.5 6,571.5
ProfctIon Cost
ltts
8Sutldiag                       s.me.o       -       -       -       .       -      -
Ote                             5,600.0      -                      - -     ---
uPtotal Ibnv*tat                  10,600.0      .       -       -       -      
lImputs
cattlh for f*t.              2,876.0 2.876.0 2.376.0 2.0N.0 2,67.0 2L676. 2t$76.0
Oerljv fed                     834.6   634.6   64.6   64.6   634.6   834.6  834.6
Naa bran                       245.0   245.0   245.0  245.0   245.0   245.0  24S.0
S=W  heat Pulo                  U.7    13.7      U.7   13.      U.      13.    13.7
Obluss                         n31.5    31.5    31.5    31.    31.s    31.5   31.5
k%a str                         42.9    4.9    42.9   42.9   42.9    42.9    2.9
Miaals                           3.0     3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
teina  cast                    67s.    7s.0    S5.0   675.0   6S7.0   86.0  8J5.0
sb-Totl Iwts                    4.s2. 4,921.  4,2.1.7 *,92.7 4.921.? 4.921.? 4,921.7
Sl-Tetal orating                   4,9214  4,921.7 4,92.7 4,921,7 4.921.? 4,91. 4.921.?
Sub-Totl Producttoen                 15t521.7 43.21.7  .921.  4,.  4,921.7  ,921.7 4,9.
COM FMIS  K FUIFINACIlS             86.950.2 1.50.9 1,649.9 1649.9 1,U0.9  1,649.9 1049.9
IRR 17.6%
Mm 9, 193  11.i



-44 -
Table 12
TURKFY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT - PCR
Consultants Emnloyed I/
ConsuZtants                ....... fh  U  ........     Title(sl of Renort(s)
Started   Finished              ,Produggd
A. N. Bhattacharya           1981      30.6.1983
Charles Hickman          31.3.1984    31.12.1987
David L. Steawart        April 1983 (21 days)           Artificial Insemination
(Course)
Dr. C. Douglas Willson    3 weeks                       Mastitis (Course)
Dr. C. Frank Williams      3 weeks                      Production Methods of
5-19 Vaccine (Course)
Olaf Theme TYUAP                                        Animal Production
Bjorn Forde E.R.D.P.                                    Artificial Insemination
R.W. Roberts E.R.D.P.                                   Fodder crops production
1/  It is highly probable that the above list is not complete.
5flBR[: MAFRA.



- 45 -
AttachMent I
Descritlion of the Project I/
The Project covers the whole of 32 provinces and selected
sites in 3 others, as specified in the Annex to this Scheduleg it
being understood that the list of provinces and sites in said
Annex may be changed from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Project iF part of a program of the Borrower for
livestock development in the Project area to (i) upgrade animal
quality,  increase  the production. of feedstuffsp  livestock and
livestock products (including milk and poultry meat), (ii)
encourage  related   on-farm  development,  mainly   through  the
provision of investment credit to livestock producers (including
Small  farmers)   for  on-farm  improvements   and  of  technical
services, technical studies and training, and (iii) establish
facilities for the production of poultry inputs and broiler and
mohair processing.
The Project consists of the following partsu
P!rt A-  Lending Program
1. The provision through TCZB of Sub-loans to an estimated
2,900 farmers for the financing of Farm Development Plans in the
Project area for dairy, beef, sheep and goat production and for
beef and sheep fattening, prepared and implemented with the
assistance referred to in Part B.1 hereof.
2. The provision through TCZB of Sub-loans to an estimated
600 poultry farmers and 23 Farmer Associations for Financing
Plans in the Project area, prepared and implemented with the
assistance referred to in Part B.1 hereof, such plans to include
about 600 village broiler house units, 12 regional processing
centers , 9 parent stock farms, and 1 premix feed plant.
Part     T echnical Services
1. Provision, through A.1 and 2 hereof, of LDP and with the
assistance of SDGS with respect to Part A.1 and 2 hereoft of
technical services to farmers and Farmer Associations benefiting
from Part A hereof, such technical services to be provided in
cooperation with TCZB and to include, inter alia, i) the
promotion  of  the  Project  among  farmersl   (ii)  the  initial
selection of farmers and Farmer Associations applying for Sub-
loans; (iii) the preparation and approval of Farm Development and
Financing Plans; (iv) the procurement of goods and services
required to carry out such plans; (v) the supervision of such
plans; and (vi) the maintenance of records for the Project.
2. (a) Training% (i) for farmers benefiting under Part A,I



- 46 -
hereof in animal husbandry, and land and credit management; (ii)
for village poultry farmers and supervisory staff and workers in
facilities to be provided under Part A.2 hereof; and (iii) on-
the-job and abroad, for LDP and TCZB staff engaged in carrying
out Parts A.1 and 2 hereof and staff of CTSS including its field
teams; (b) rehabilitation of the poultry training center for Part
A.2 of the Project; and (c) constructing about 9 houses for field
staff of LDP carrying out Parts B.1 and 2 (a) of the Project.
3. Carrying out of studies by LDP on land use practices for
forage   crop   and   cereal   intercropping    production,   and
dissemination to farmers of tectinical information with respect to
animal production and land use practices.
4. Carrying out a study to develop a ten-year master plan
for the meat, milk and feed processing industries and to prepare
a first stage development project.
Part CI Disease Control Program
The equipping of about 8 laboratories and establishing and
equipping of about 65 survey and control teams of GDVS and the
conducting of surveys by such teams on the incidence of Mastitis
in   cattle,  Brucellosis   in  cattle,   sheep  and   goats  and
Theileriosis in cattle, and the carrying out of disease control
programs for these diseases and for foot and mouth disease over a
4-5 year period.
Part Di Breeding Program
The expansion by GDANB of its artificial (AI) and natural
breeding program, through (i) expansion and reequipping of semen
production centers at Senlikkoy and Bornova; (ii) construction
and equipping of a new Al laboratory at Uzunyayla; (iii) the
increasing of GDANB's mobile AI field teams to about 300 teams
and equipping of such teams over a six-year period; (iv) the
carrying out of an AI program to increase the number of cows
inseminated in the Project area to about 800,000 per year,
through  inter  alia distribution  to  the field  teams  of about
60s000 doses of imported frozen semen from proven purebred sires
to augment locally produced semen, and importation of about 3
proven purebred cattle sires; (v) provision of about 2,000 young
purebred heifers for distribution to about 7 breeding stations,
and about 200 Haflinger breeding horses to be distributed to
about 5 breeding stations; (vi) the preparation of a plan for
national livestock improvement  inter  ia integrating activities
of breeding stations and establishing a herd recording scheme to
register purebred and top-crossed offspring and monitor their
performance; and (vii) the carrying out of a training program in
recording and organization techniques with respect to artificial
and natural breeding for GDANB staff implementing the Project.
Part Eg  Meat Processing  Edeleted 07/21/833



- 47 -
FAdt-F:  cohair Pr  %s6ing
1, Constructing and equipping by TYT of a mohair processing
plant at Sincanli (Atyon Province) with capacity to process about
1,000 metric tons per year greasy mohair on a three-shift basis
to combed tops suitable for export.
2. Training of TYT staff in operating the plant.
Part G:  Qrandoarent Stg1k fEam
The establishment by LDP (through CTSS) of a poultry
grandparent stock farm and provision of equipment and stock
therefor.
Annex
The Project will be implemented in the following provinces
or parts thereoft
1.   Part A.1a  Afyon, Amasya, Ankara, Burdur, Eskisehir,
Isparta, Kayseri, Konya, Kutahya, Mugla, Nevsehir, Nigde,
Biirt, Sivas, Tokat, Tunceli and Usak.
2.   (a) Part A.2a  the regions of Ankara (composed of parts of
the provinces of Ankara, Eskisehir and Konya) and Diyarbakir
(composed of parts of the provinces of Diyarbakir, Elazig
and Urfa) and the provinces of Erzurum, Gumushane, Icelg
Kayseri and Yozgat.
(b) Part A.2s grandparent stock farm: a location to be
selected by the Borrower.
3.   Part Cs Adana, Amasya, Ankara, Cankiri, Corump Eskisehir,
Hatay, Icel, Kayseri, Kirsehir, Konya, Neveehir, Nigde,
Sivas, Tokat and Yozgat.
4.   Part Do Adana, Amasya, Ankara, Aydin, Bursa, Cankiri,
Corum, Eskisehir, Icel, Istanbul, Izmir, Kayeri,
Kirklareli, Konya, Kutahya, Manisa, Nigde, Sivas, Tokat
and Yozgat.
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 2 as amended through June 1985.



25,                                             IB4RD 14E41R
2s              1                    ~~~~~                                        ~    ~~~~~~30.  3-                                      4 -  
BULGARIA -A                                                           ,'  / ,                                Sea
~.4RNE   e                                                                                                                                                                 S.  S.  R.
90 KRKLArRELI'                                                    '-     -          -NOP                                                                        U.5 S.R
(                           ZONGERDAK                  IT~~~~~~~~~~~~ASTAMONL 
JU   rlEKIRDAt6                                                                                                                                                        AR I   ,   AVIN  'I
0    ~      ? >       -                               JSAMSON-                                                .      c
\RRS                             \       ACI~                  A~A ~~.                     >          O        ___ -4G.
VRIZE   ~           A~I 
35NAKASE              _4jR                                                                    '       SAA ISAL   O                                                                                4
BALIKESlAUGHTERHOUSES TO EZE O AANDA                                                                                                                         &UR
KUTAHTA                           1'   0 C EA
Er ~~ DAIRY AND~ AATL 3EEWG1'r, A NUERIP>-l_
13GA   TU            RKEY -
-. O-  C  ATREA lOF LISOUNDARIE IC2SATJ                                                         ARABt                                                     ,      *; \             )OFIA
PROJECT AREAeO    EPmJ
P3O0-C ARE  OF- tSSOI  C0 IC  5-V                                                                                                                ?? C V RURPLV S O K D V L P E T P O Et-
_OLANd                             _
~~  PRIORITY REGIONS POR POULTRY PROJECTS           -RAYUE                                                                             S.        S
0   MATY UTIN G  OMOENIZT                             2                                                                                              -
DAIRY AND CATTLE RETOOT-JO                                                                      $'RULOARIA          .-----<~~~~~~~~AN         HKKAR
[~~]  MERINO                                                             -                                              )UR UR4 "--A  f
~~                  ?~,J   \OL?                 TURKEY    
-.-   ROVINC TNARIEA                                                         I 1_ 4GREEC IIF,'0,
jj~~~~~~~~~~~   E    L                           ARAB~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.f'\                                                    IIRA  E
LSR' /C. 2 CREDIT                                                                                                                                       ERRA
r~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI  H



