Document of
The World Bank                  F          c;?Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2812-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 13, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Calendar 1978              July 1979            Jan. 1980  /1
US Dollar 1          =             TL 24.28                 TL 47.10 /2          TL 70.00 /3
TL 1                               US$ 0.04                 US$ 0.02             US$ 0.01
1/   Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential inflation
between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL70/$l was used for this
report.
2/   Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw materials,
and exports of agricultural products benefiting from official price supports, for
which it was TL35 = US$1.00.
3/   Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as raw
materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate is TL55 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                                                     March 1 to February 28
TCZB, EBK and TYT                                                      January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AI      -  Artificial Insemination
CTSS    -  Center for Technical Support Services
EBK     -  Meat and Fish Organization
EDLD    -  Encouragement and Development Loan Division of TCZB
FAO/CP  -  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
GDANB   -  General Directorate of Artificial Insemination, Natural Services and
Breed Improvement of MFAL
GDVS    -  General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MFAL
LDP     -  General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects of MFAL
MFAL    -  Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
SEE     -  State Economic Enterprise
SOF     -  Special Operational Fund
TCZB    -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TSEK    -  Turkish Milk Industry Organization
TYT     -  Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation
LA      -  Loan Agreement
PA      -  Project Agreement



TURKEY                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:       Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Meat and Fish Organization (EBK).
Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation (TYT).
Amount:              US$51 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years, including four years grace, at 8.25
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    To TCZB:
US$30.9 million equivalent for seventeen years, including
four years grace, at an interest rate leaving TCZB at
least a 2.5 percent net spread (paras. '49 and 60). The
Government will assume the foreign exchange risk.
To EBK and TYT:
US$2.6 and 2.9 million equivalent, respectively, for ten
years including two years grace, with interest at 10 per-
cent per annum. EBK and TYT will assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The proposed project is designed to consolidate and expand
gains made under previous Bank-financed livestock projects
which helped to improve the quality of the national live-
stock herd, introduce modern livestock management tech-
niques and initiate necessary efforts in artificial
breeding, animal health, poultry production, meat pro-
cessing and mohair exports. Supervised credit will be
provided, through TCZB, to about 2,900 sub-borrowers for
dairy cattle, Merino sheep and Angora goat production and
breed improvement, village broiler production and poultry
processing units. Other components include disease
control programs, expansion of artificial insemination,
meat processing and transport facilities, and a mohair
processing factory. Technical services and training will
be provided under each component.
The project covers 32 provinces of Turkey and selected
sites in 3 others. About 60 percent of beneficiaries will
be small farmers, with incomes below the relative poverty
level in Turkey. At full development, the total annual
value of incremental production is estimated at US$113
million, with foreign exchange savings of US$17 million
per year, besides general indirect benefits from the
artificial insemination and animal health components and
increased utilization of milk and meat infrastructure.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizstion.



- ii -
There are no special project risks. Village broiler
house investment is expected to proceed in parallel with
regional processing centers, but may be delayed if ade-
quate coordination is not ensured. TYT will hire consul-
tants to help it enter the exacting market for mohair tops
(combed bundles of clean fibre). Other risks include the
overall shortage of budget funds and staffing difficulties
experienced in some earlier projects.
Estimated Cost:                                    Local /1  Foreign       Total /1
…-----(US$ Million)------
Livestock production          14.6        15.0        29.6
Village poultry               10.3        10.0        20.3
Animal health                  4.7         1.5         6.2
Artificial breeding           20.6         5.5        26.1
Meat processing                0.8         2.3         3.1
Mohair processing              1.0         2.4         3.4
Base costs                    52.0        36.7        88.7
Price increases               22.0        14.3        36.3
Total               74.0 /2    51.0        125.0
/   Based on November 1979 exchange rate.
Ti Includes US$6.2 million equivalent in taxes.
Financing Plan:                                    Local    Foreign        Total
…-----(US$ Million)--------
Bank                            -         51.0        51.0
Government                    45.5         -          45.5
TCZB                          22.6         -          22.6
Farmers                        5.9         -           5.9
Total               74.0        51.0       125.0
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
-----------------TUS$MiTl ioWnj-------------
Annual        1.0    4.3    7.0   11.0   15.0   10.0    2.7.
Cumulative   1.0    5.3   12.3   23.3   38.3   48.3   51.0
Rate of Return:       About 70 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 2894-TU, dated May 9, 1980
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$51 million to help finance
a project for livestock development. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The
equivalent of US$30.9 million would be relent to the Agricultural Bank of
Turkey (TCZB) for 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest such
as to leave TCZB a net spread of at least 2.5 percent on Bank funds it onlends
to its subborrowers. The equivalent of US$2.6 million will be relent to the
Meat and Fish Organization (EBK), and the equivalent of US$2.9 million to
the Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation (TYT), both for 10 years including 2
years of grace, with interest at 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). Following discussion with the
Government in mid October 1979, its report entitled "Turkey: Policies and
Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979. A Postscript to the Special
Economic Report was distributed to the Board on March 24, 1980. Their find-
ings are reflected in this Part. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3.        As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderniza-
tion, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent
and 7.2 percent respectively during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan
(1968-72), and Third Plan (1973-77) periods. This compares favorably with
the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP grew on
an average 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-70 and 6.1 percent per annum
between 1970-77. Moreover, the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was
achieved without significant deposits of oil or other important natural
resources.
4.        Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew at 2.5 percent per annum, rapid GDP growth nevertheless
allowed substantial advances in per capita income. However, rising income
levels were.not accompanied by better income distribution and significant
sectoral and regional inequalities in income exist, although basic needs have
been satisfactorily met.
1/   This part is identical to Part I of the President's Reports on the
Karakaya Hydropower and Sumerbank Cotton Textile Rationalization Projects
to be considered by the Executive Directors in late May.



-2-
5.        The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-77, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its oriL.Atation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-77 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.        Turkish development between 1963-77, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent
in 1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent
for middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance
of payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed
inflow of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment
relative to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-70s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary pres-
sures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a relatively
high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflecting signif-
icant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job creation in
non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to other large
middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate generation of
additional employment has become more serious following the near cessation of
workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the growing dynamism
of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by inefficient State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to market forces and
serve not only economic but social goals; their growing deficits have imposed
an inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambitious investment programs
were financed through Central Bank borrowings, since their controlled prices
have, until recently, not enabled most of them to generate sufficient cash to
cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth, due to the successes achieved
since the early sixties through economic planning, there has been an increas-
ing tendency to plan to a micro-level and seek to achieve changes through
administrative fiat; however, the economy has reached a stage where such
excessive reliance on this becomes counter productive; planning needs to be
increasingly geared towards setting a framework in which market forces
could secure the desired economic results in both the public and private
sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts up to Mid-1979
7.        These economic, institutional and structural characteristics of
the economy made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import
prices (including oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession,
inflation and rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors



-3-
played a key part in the deterioration of the Turkish economy. However, the
politically weak governments, their policies in response to these factors and
their efforts to pursue high growth policy despite the worsening international
environment with increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together
created forces that brought about the economic crisis that began in mid-1977
and still continues. The detailed analysis of the causes of this crisis and
the government's attempts to stabilize the economy in the short-run up to
mid-1979, is provided in the above-mentioned Special Economic Report and in
paras. 8 through 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for
the Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.        The new IMF Standby, which replaced the one arranged in April
1978, was negotiated after the government took the following overdue measures
in March/April 1979, to reverse the continuing adverse economic trends: (a)
to improve the balance of payments, the TL was devalued in several steps until
June, when a new buying rate of TL 47.10 per US$1 was established for most
foreign trade and all invisibles; the new rate represented a depreciation in
export-weighted terms of nearly 75 percent since the end of 1970, and more
than offset the differential inflation rate during the course of 1978-79
between Turkey and its major trading partners; (b) to further stimulate
exports of industrial and mining products, exporters were allowed to retain 50
percent (up from 25 percent) of their foreign exchange earnings to finance
their imported inputs or those of their local suppliers; (c) to improve the
financial position of SEEs, further substantial price increases (34 percent to
110 percent) were announced for a number of products, raising them above world
prices at the new exchange rate; these increases were estimated to yield an
additional TL 80 billion in FY1979, to help reduce the overall borrowing
requirement of the public sector; and (d) to ensure more effective mobiliza-
tion and allocation of resources, interest rates for deposits and loans were
increased substantially, from up to a maximum of 16% p.a. to over 24% p.a.;
repatriated savings of migrant workers were allowed an additional interest
premium.
9.        The July 1979 Standby covered a twelve month period, and foresaw
total purchases of SDR 250.0 million in four tranches - SDR 70.0 million
initially, and SDR 60 million each after November 1979, March 1980, and June
1980. It provided for a series of specific performance targets to strengthen
the public finances, reduce inflation and improve the balance of payments
situation in the short term. These measures were expected to prevent further
deterioration in the balance of payments during 1979, with essential imports
projected at $5.0 billion, about the same level as the previous year in real
terms. A substantial increase in workers' remittances to a level of $1.2
billion was expected to compensate for the increasing interest payments on
foreign debt. At the same time, disbursements of medium- and long-term
foreign aid (including the Bank's Program Loan) were expected to increase
markedly in 1979, thus reducing the need for renewed short-term borrowing.
10.       In 1978, short-term debts continued to grow.  However, 1979 wit-
nessed the completion of a major Turkish effort to alleviate the primary



- 4 -
external debt issue through: (a) slowing the growth of short-term liabilities;
(b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new sources of credits,
especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation, arranged through
the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consolidation of $1.14
billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT debt, as
well as amounts due over the 13-month period May 21, 1978 to June 30, 1979. A
second such major rescheduling took place in July 1979 involving about $1.02
billion of the official bilateral and private guaranteed credits due between
July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980.  A third major arrangement, finalized in July
and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled convertible lira deposits
($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and third party reimbursement
credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil debt was also rescheduled.
The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5 billion. This is perhaps the
largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
11.       Turkey also succeeded in 1978 and 1979, though to a limited extent,
in diversifying the sources and increasing the level of M&LT commitments,
including $250 million in project credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the
most important arrangement arrived at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging
of $1.45 billion in special assistance, including about $900 million in M&LT
bilateral credits and export credits, besides $407 million of medium-term
credits from commercial banks (finalized in September 1979). Agreements for
all these funds were expected to be finalized before the end of 1979. By that
time, about $750 million of this was estimated to be disbursed.
Economic Situation As Of End 1979
12.       The economic crisis still continues.  The measures taken in the
context of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement have essentially succeeded in
arresting further economic deterioration. Since it came into effect only in
July 1979, it was recognized that the stabilization objectives which could be
realized within one year were necessarily limited, and the progress towards
them within the remaining six months of 1979 would also be quite modest.
13.       After a surge up to mid 1979, worker remittances slowed down;
nevertheless, they totalled about $1.7 billion, against $983 million in 1978
and the Standby's target of $1.2 billion.  Industrial exports rose quite
strongly in the first half of 1979 in response to the changes in the parity
value of the TL in April and June 1979; but they subsequently slowed down,
presumably, partly due to severe shortages of imported inputs and partly due
to the anticipation of further devaluation in the second half of that year.
Overall, exports totalled about $2.3 billion in 1979, against the Standby's
target of $2.7 billion.  As a result of higher prices and the necessity of
purchasing oil on spot markets, the 1979 oil bill rose from the projected $1.7
billion to nearly $2.5 billion. While imports in 1979 were contained at $5.1
billion, marginally higher than the Standby's target of $5.0 billion, the
large oil bill necessitated more than anticipated reductions in essential
imports. The problem was compounded by a much lower inflow of new capital
than that envisaged in July 1979, because a significant part of the $900
million committed by bilaterals in May 1979 at the OECD meeting had not been
made effective up to December 1979; besides, only a portion of what was made



- 5 -
effective was available to finance imports in 1979. Disbursements were
also lower than expected against the $407 million of new commercial bank
financing, because of its linkage with the November 1979 tranche of the
Standby Arrangements which could not take place in time due to a change of
government in Turkey in late 1979. Consequently, while the estimated current
account deficit of $1.6 billion in 1979 was more or less in line with the
target in the Standby Arrangements, the volume of imports declined by about 15
percent in 1979, following a decline of about 30 percent in 1978. Overall,
GNP growth in 1979 was about 1.5 percent. Under the great pressure imposed by
extremely limited supplies of vital imported inputs and products, including
oil, the resulting shortfalls in export earnings, the shortages of a wide
variety of consumer goods, and much stronger pressure on wages than antici-
pated at the time of the Standby, the rate of inflation reached 64 percent in
1979.
January 1980 Economic Program and Policy Objectives
14.       Despite the difficult stabilization measures adopted since 1978
and those reflected in the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, the economic crisis
persisted throughout 1979. Following elections in October 1979 a new govern-
ment was formed. It obtained a vote of confidence in late November 1979.
Bold and far-reaching measures to reverse the economic situation were announced
on January 25, 1980. These are summarized in Annex II and more fully discussed
in Part II of the President's Report (No. P-2725-TU) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
announced economic policy objectives underlying these measures represent a
basic departure from the past planning objectives. Turkey has undertaken,
through this program, the essential first steps to initiate major structural
and institutional changes in the key areas summarized in para 6, so as to
foster medium-term economic development on a stable basis.
15.       Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a
modification of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, and the
release of a larger second tranche on February 21, 1980. On March 24, 1980,
it approved the release of an increased third tranche. Thus, of the balance
of SDR 180 million remaining in their July 1979 Standby, only SDR 20 million
remains for release by end June 1980. In addition, compensatory financing of
SDR 71.6 million has been provided on February 21, 1980 together with the
modification of the Standby. Together, this results in the provision of $301
million (SDR 231.6 million) now with $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be
provided in June 1980. In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the
provision of sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief
operation.  Also, in meetings sponsored under OECD auspices on March 26 and
April 15, $1.16 billion of bilateral aid was pledged. The success of the
January 1980 measures is clearly dependent not on Turkey's own further efforts
alone, but also on the willingness of the international economic and financial
community to provide adequate and timely assistance in the period immediately
ahead. The alternative for Turkey would be to cut back on imports, already
pared to the bone; this, in turn, would postpone the possibility of economic
recovery even further, jeopardize its efforts to curb inflation, and hamper
the success of the bold structural changes it has initiated.



-6-
16.       The new economic policy objectives underlying the Government's
stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of the economy," can
be summed up as follows:
(a) Greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces by both the
public and private sectors, and lesser reliance than hitclerto
on planning up to micro-levels and on administrative fiats to
realize planned targets and objectives.
(b) Reduction in the rate of inflation and improved management of
balance of payments and external debts have the highest
priority; in the process, Turkey may have to accept temporarily
a lower GNP growth.
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, on
which Turkish development policy hitherto relied and which
resulted in a bias favoring production for the domestic
markets, must give way to policies encouraging the public
and private sectors to be efficient and internationally
competitive.
(d) In future, reliance must be placed on exports and foreign
currency earning activities to finance Turkey's economic
needs; the implementation of rational exchange rate policies
and of measures encouraging exports are essential to achieve
this objective.
(e) The SEE sector must be reformed, by exposing it to market
forces, by allowing it to set its own prices and by improv-
ing its management; through such actions, it must generate
its own resources to cover operating costs and investment
expenditures.
(f) Domestic resource mobilization efforts, unlike the past, must
be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts, the
banking system, increased savings and the development of
financial markets; the elimination of deficits of the public
sector is an important objective of budgets from 1980 onwards.
(g) Investments aiming at fuller utilization of existing produc-
tive capacity and completion of those ongoing projects
requiring modest inputs should have first priority; there-
after, the priority should be for new investments stressing
exports and employment or those removing critical infra-
structural bottlenecks; in any event, investments should be
tailored to scarce resources.
(h) Conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry
and agriculture must be created, in contrast to the past when
such investments were not encouraged; prudent external debt
management policies to create confidence in and flow of large
external resources to Turkey should be followed.



17.       These are radical departures from past Turkish economic policy.
Considerable effort will be required to implement the new policies and com-
plete the structural and institutional changes which Turkey has begun. The
difficulty of the task should not be underestimated. The key policy areas
are: (a) a rational exchange rate policy; (b) policies ensuring increased
export earnings and encouraging foreign investments; (c) reform of the SEE
sector, and the use of market forces to improve its efficiency and output as
well as that of the private sector; (d) policies to improve domestic resource
mobilization; and (e) formulation and pursuit of rational external debt
management policies.
18.       The actions taken by Turkey since 1978 in these areas, including
measures in the January 1980 program and those planned for implementation in
the medium-term, are summarized in the Table in Annex II. Progress in
implementing them so as to foster economic recovery in the medium-term will
be the focus of two reviews in July 1980 and December 1980, under the recently
approved Structural Adjustment Loan. While all the issues listed in the Table
are important, two of them merit further discussion: (a) external debt
management and (b) public sector investment program.
19.       Turkey's external debt management policy has to grapple with several
difficult issues. First, the large overhang of debt, and the relatively hard
terms of the recent debt reschedulings, together raise a question regarding
the need for further rescheduling in the near-term. A substantial improvement
in the repayment profile of the rescheduled debts and the containment of
Turkey's short-term indebtedness over the medium-term tc no more than the
present level of about $3.8 billion is necessary to alleviate the heavy debt
servicing burden over the next 5 years; a critical element here is the likely
posture of commercial creditors, which cannot be easily anticipated. Second,
it is important that Turkey obtains sizeable external credits on as long-term
and concessional a basis as possible, to complete ongoing projects and under-
take new ones in accordance with its stated investment criteria (para. 20).
Recognizing the importance of these issues and the longer-term concerns
regarding its creditworthiness that its creditors have, Turkey has been
focussing its attention on evolving a balanced and prudent policy for external
debt management. The Government has already initiated a comprehensive study
of external debt, which it expects to complete before October 31, 1980. This
study should help Turkey to further improve and refine its present external
debt management policy; that should also assist Turkey in exercising greater
control over the level and terms of new external financing it would seek from
various external sources over the next five years.
20.       As discussed earlier, the overall size and quality of the public
investment programs until 1977 have contributed to the economic crisis.
Actions taken over the last several months provide some evidence that given
the severe domestic and foreign exchange constraints, public investment
expenditures are being channelled towards projects meeting strict investment
criteria. However, the January 1980 program and the policy announcements
accompanying it go beyond that. They emphasize that since control of
inflation is more important at present than the past Turkish strategy of
concentrating only on higher growth, the projected level of annual investments



- 8 -
must be rigorously tailored to meet the availability of scarce resources
each year. Investments in fiscal 1979 were lower in real terms than those
in fiscal 1978. The Government proposes to continue that trend for fiscal
1980. Priority is to be accorded first to investments designed to utilize
existing productive capacity more fully and to complete ongoing projects which
can yield attracLive returns with modest additional investments. Thereafter,
the priority for new investments is for productive projects either contributing
to exports or employment, or for those which remove critical infrastructural
bottlenecks. A new Incentives and Investment Department has been established,
whose purpose is to review which ongoing investments should be stopped,
deferred or completed on an accelerated basis.
21.       Successful implementation of the economic reorientation begun in
January 1980 will take time, require persistence and courageous action on
the part of the Government and call for substantial support from the inter-
national community. In the medium term, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and reestablish a path of stable economic growth.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
22.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83), approved by Parliament in
November 1978, was in many essential ways an extension of the traditional
Turkish development planning. It set out to complete the unfinished tasks
of the Third Plan, and continued to emphasize a high growth rate, a large
investment allocation for import substitution in basic and intermediate goods
industries, and reliarc~e on administrative controls rather than on market
incentives. But it also attempted to address some development issues which
came to the fore during the economic crisis, i.e. export growth and increased
savings. Consequently, an export growth target of 18 percent p.a. in real
terms and a marginal savings ratio of 34 percent were set, and priority was
also accorded to export-oriented investments. But investment allocations
provided mixed signals, favoring import substitution. In view of the continua-
tion of the economic crisis, the unattainability of the targeted marginal
savings ratio, and the difficulties that Turkey is facing currently, the
Fourth Plan targets of investment and growth are clearly not going to be
achieved.
23.       Against this background, the Bank has made its own prognosis based
on a general equilibrium model of the economy which permits quantification of
alternative policies and a detailed and consistent examination of Turkey's
medium-term prospects. Given the accumulation of economic problems of the
last three years, the political difficulties besetting the country, the addi-
tional resources needed to cover the significantly increased cost of imports
(including oil), and the limitations which Turkey is likely to encounter over
the medium-term in significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, GDP
growth in real terms may average around 4 percent p.a. with a real growth of
exports about 12 percent p.a., during 1980-85. These growth rates appear
attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate economic policies (including
those announced in January 1980), and taking into account the low export base



- 9 -
and present underutilization of capacity. 1/ The international oil situation,
following the recent substantial oil price increases at end-1979, has a
major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey allows only a marginal
increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a lower level of growth,
the oil import bill is estimated to increase to $3.2 billion in 1980 and $6.1
billion by 1985, which as a percentage of merchandise exports and non-factor
services reached 78.1 percent in 1979 and is likely to remain at a level of
about 68 percent until 1985. The pressure this will exert on Turkey's already
difficult balance of payments position is obvious. Although in constant
dollars the ratio appears manageable, in current prices the projected current
account deficit as a percent of GNP increases from 3 percent in 1979 to about
5.3 percent in 1980 and remains at a level of about 4 percent thereafter until
1984. Considering the limitation on the gross inflows of available external
assistance and given the need for sound external debt management, Turkey can
sustain an average annual current account deficit of the order of $2-2.2
billion annually over the next 5 years.
24.       Taking into account international inflation and the growing obliga-
tions for debt amortization, this situation necessitates a large and sharply
increasing gross annual average inflow of foreign capital, rising from the
current relatively low levels to about $5.2 billion during the next five
years, implying an annual average of about $2.3 billion of net capital inflow
for the same period. Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be
sustained on the basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt
service obligations are likely to remain very high over the coming 5 years.
In 1978, total debt service payments had risen to 26.7 percent of exports of
goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances after making allowance for
the rescheduled service payments. In 1980, the ratio is projected to reach
close to 37 percent, and is likely to peak in 1985 at a high level of about 48
percent, before declining. This, however, should represent the culmination of
the financial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should
remain manageable, provided the new policies are successfully implemented and
the export drive is sustained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
25.       A large lending program for Turkey essentially began following the
introduction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA have
lent $2,320 million through 56 projects. Agriculture accounts for 30 percent
of funds lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent, power for 14 percent and
urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.  Annex
III contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   See "Turkey:  Postscript Special Economic Report", Attachment 1, Report
No. 2918-TU, dated March 20, 1980, circulated to the Executive Directors
on March 24, 1980.



- 10 -
26.       Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has
been satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst
ministries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project
reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted
in distinct, but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situat Jn was
again reviewed with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with
the then Prime Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new
high-level coordination team.  This team set up procedures for monitoring and
achieving realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of December
1979 disbursements increased to 69 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975.  The last joint review was held in April 1979.  The
encouraging progress that is now manifest allows cautious optimism that
performance will gradually improve further.
27.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial
and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment opportunities
and living standards, through rural and urban development projects; (c) lagging
public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved management
and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure posing
critical bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
new government on how its lending can best contribute to the government's
medium-term objectives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped
by past policy and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and
industry remain the key sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects empha-
size livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close
macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work
planned over the next few months includes an updating economic mission and
completion of sector memoranda on industry and energy. In addition, the
progress made in fostering the structural adjustments initiated by the Govern-
ment through the January 1980 program will be discussed in the context of the
disbursements of the Structural Adjustment Loan.
28.       A thirteenth TSKB loan designed to stimulate investments in export
projects of the private sector, loans for a Private Sector Textile Project
and an engineering loan to assist the alleviation of air pollution in Ankara,
were approved by the Board in the first four months of FY80.  A loan for
Structural Adjustment was approved on March 25, 1980. The Karakaya Hydropower
and the Sumerbank Textile Projects are scheduled for Board consideration later
this fiscal year. Projects being processed for future fiscal years include
those for pilot enhanced oil recovery and oil exploration, fruit and vegetables,
livestock products, rural development, fertilizer production, employment
generation in selected cities, pulp manufacture, seed production and sewerage
disposal in Istanbul.
29.       The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (includ-
ing short-term obligations) was 5.9 percent in 1978, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and to 12.5 percent by 1985. The Bank's share of



- 11 -
service payments is projected to fall slightly from its level of 7.7 percent
in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
30.       IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of March 31, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $208 million, of which $96 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Production
31.       Agriculture remains crucial to Turkey's economy, contributing about
27 percent of GNP, 61 percent of employment and 59 percent of exports in 1979.
Livestock contributed some 26 percent of agricultural value added and 8 per-
cent of GNP. Turkey's livestock population is amongst the highest in Europe
and the Middle East, including an estimated 44 million sheep, 18 million
goats, 16 million cattle and buffalo, 2 million horses and donkeys and 55
million poultry. Principal livestock outputs include milk, meat, eggs, wool,
mohair, hides, draft power and transport.
32.       Total livestock output grew at 4.2 percent per annum from 1974 to
1979. While Turkey is presently relatively self-sufficient, by 1985 it may
need to import over 30 percent of its milk and meat and over 20 percent of
its wool and mohair, unless there are major changes in historical production
and consumption trends. Recorded exports, mainly live sheep and cattle and
mohair, averaged about $80 million per year during 1973-76. There are also
substantial unrecorded exports to Iran and Syria. Imports (including pedigree
stock) averaged about $50 million per year during 1973-76.
Potential for Improvement
33.       Livestock production is important to village family food supplies
and income. However, the subsector is currently operating at a fraction of
its potential, primarily because of poor genetic merit of local breeds, aggra-
vated by inadequate nutrition and health care. Modernizing influences have
been limited mainly to innovations introduced under the four Bank-financed
livestock projects (1971 Livestock I, Credit 236-TU for $4.5 million; 1972
Livestock II, Credit 330-TU for $16 million; 1976 Livestock III, Loan 1265-TU
for $21.5 million; and 1978 Livestock IV, Loan 1586-TU for $24 million).
34.       As a result, weaning and offtake rates are still low.  Turkey's
yields of about one ton of carcass per 100 cattle and one ton per 380 sheep
and goats are only one-eighth and one-sixth respectively, and milk output per
cow about one-eighth, the levels in countries with more advanced livestock
industries. Since cattle numbers and milk production have grown only about
one-half as fast as human population, and incomes have risen considerably,
urban milk shortages have become increasingly acute.



- 12 -
35.       There is a general need to upgrade all classes of indigenous live-
stock, with highest priority to improving fertility, milk yield and rate of
weight gain. Imports of pedigree cattle under Bank-financed livestock projects
are providing the nucleus stock for genetic upgrading through natural breeding.
The programs of Government natural breeding centers need to be systematized
and record keeping improved, to prevent dilution of top-crossing efforts after
pedigree offspring are released to farmers.
36.       There is also a large potential, so far hardly exploited, for
improving the national herd through artificial insemination (AI). In future,
natural breeding should be de-emphasized in favor of AI, on cost grounds.
However, production and distribution of frozen semen is severely constrained
by the number of purebred sires available; semen storage and distribution
capacity is lacking. These problems are addressed in the proposed project
(paras. 58, 69 and 70).
37.       Animal production is also constrained by a wide range of controllable
health and disease problems. Mastitis, brucellosis and theileriosis control
programs are not carried out on an area-wide basis, but restricted to govern-
ment farms and government-sponsored projects, and are therefore ineffective.
Revised arrangements are provided for under the proposed project (paras. 58
and 67).
38.       Poor nutrition is an even more limiting constraint.  Animals subsist
mainly on cereal crop residues, volunteer growth on fallowed lands, and natural
grazing on non-cultivable areas. This low-quality, maintenance diet is insuf-
ficient for animal p:oduction; but many farmers lack adequate access to tech-
nical services, credit and other inputs, and cannot supplement the quality
of the feed or manage its supply. The feed base needs to be significantly
expanded and improved, principally by increasing production from natural grass
lands and reducing fallowing. Efforts to integrate crop and livestock produc-
tion, through the introduction of forage crops and legume-based pasture into
the crop rotation in place of fallow, were initiated under previous projects
(paras. 50-55), and will be important in the proposed one.
39.       Since 1975, the share of meat production derived from poultry has
expanded rapidly. Imported hybrid stock has led to the development of a small
modern broiler industry, which caters mainly to large cities. In contrast,
village production, which still accounts for about 82 percent of the total,
achieves very low broiler yields and feed conversion efficiencies using farm-
yard stock and traditional forage. The potential for village production of
hybrid broilers has been demonstrated by the Turkish Development Foundation at
Tarsus, near Adana, using imported parent stock, superior feed and a regular
supply of vaccines to achieve lower mortality rates and hatchery breakage
losses than, and feed conversion ratios vastly superior to, those of tradi-
tional farmers. The operation is not particularly dependent upon the local
agricultural resource base for key inputs and is replicable in other parts of
Turkey, as in the proposed project (paras. 58 and 66).
40.       Turkey is one of the three major world producers of mohair.  How-
ever, animal yields and fibre quality are low as a result of poor breeding and
nutrition. This has constrained exports, which have averaged about 3,000 tons



- 13 -
annually, earning $28 million in 1978. The exploitation of the good long-term
potential will require additional processing capacity, as well as Angora goat
breeding programs to provide assured amounts of quality domestic fibre. Inter-
national marketing arrangements also need considerable strengthening. The
project will relieve these constraints (see paras. 58 and 73).
Sub-Sector Policies and Programs
41.       Overall Policies.  Livestock policies in the national economic devel-
opment plans have emphasized increased production to satisfy rising domestic
demand and encourage exports. Efforts have concentrated on: (i) introducing
new technology at the farm level, through investment credit linked with tech-
nical assistance; (ii) improving processing and marketing facilities; and (iii)
increasing profitability through price incentives.
42.       Milk and Meat.  Lack of adequate meat and milk processing and market-
ing facilities, particularly in eastern Turkey, has been a key constraint
on the overall balanced development of the sub-sector. To overcome this, an
ambitious program of slaughterhouse and livestock market development is being
implemented by the Meat and Fish Organization (EBK), which is responsible
for some 15 percent of official slaughter in Turkey. It has 20 new slaughter-
houses completed, and tentative plans to complete 18 more by 1985. The Govern-
ment intends to study the national meat industry shortly with Bank assistance.
However, the project investments are small high-priority ones required under
any resulting program. EBK's overall financial position is satisfactory. An
equally ambitious program to develop milk collection and cooling centers and
processing plants is being undertaken by the Turkish Milk Industry Organization
(TSEK). Although the overall objectives of its program are appropriate, the
siting, number and size of plants have not been consistently determined on the
basis of milk availability or financial considerations. As a consequence,
most completed plants are over-staffed, operate below capacity, and suffer
losses. To correct these deficiencies, establish a sound basis for the
remainder of TSEK's investment program, and develop a satisfactory framework
for subsequent growth of the dairy industry, the Government has commissioned a
study of the TSEK program under the fourth livestock project, the results of
which are expected shortly.
43.       Competition between public and private marketing channels for milk
and meat has been active, and price levels are generally adequate. The base
prices paid by TSEK and EBK have been increased by more than 25 percent in
real terms since the early 1970s to encourage increased production. These
prices determine, to some extent, the minimum prices of milk and meat. Both
TSEK and EBK also offer price incentives which have encouraged higher quality
and reduced seasonal fluctuations in supply.
44.       Mohair.  Mohair production has been encouraged through support
prices and short-term finance for crop purchases. Fibre collection and
*exports, still handled in part by private merchants, are dominated by two
SEEs, of which by far the larger is the Turkish Wool and Mohair Corporation
(TYT), responsible to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (MFAL).
Its financial position is satisfactory. Given the currently expected export
demand for mohair tops, and Turkey's difficult resource position, it is
understood that construction of further capacity for processing mohair tops
for export will not qualify for public investment or public sector financing
during the start-up of the project facilities (para. 73).



- 14 
Credit Institution and Interest Rates
45.       TCZB channels about 90 percent of institutional credit to agricul-
ture. Its authorized capital is TL 15 billion, of which TL 3.5 billion has
been paid in. Its management is competent, and its higher pay and benefits
permit it to attract and retain qualified staff. TCZB holds large non-
interest-bearing Government deposits and enjoys access to Central Bank redis-
counts and advances. It has also rapidly expanded both its private deposits
and its loan portfolio, the latter reaching TL 75 billion in 1978. TCZB's net
banking income has grown 20 percent per annum, and it has not incurred any
loss, between 1964 and 1978. Its profitability is expected to remain satis-
factory and its lending volume high over the next few years despite continuing
rapid, albeit diminishing, inflation.
46.       Institutional credit has remained insufficient and inaccessible to
a large proportion of Turkey's small farmers, partly because TCZB's resources
have remained inadequate despite their rapid growth, but mainly because of its
past strict collateral requirements. The Agricultural Credit Law of April
1979 and TCZB's June 1979 guidelines have liberalized lending policies towards
small farmers and cooperatives, by incorporating some of the suggestions made
by the Bank to TCZB and the Government over the last few years and extending
the credit arrangements agreed under earlier livestock projects to all TCZB
activities. Lending based on projects or farm plans has been made the main
vehicle for credit to agriculture. Collateral requirements have been liber-
alized and increased reliance placed upon the use of co-signatories and,
nominally, on chattel mortgages. SEEs, private corporations and local admin-
istrations are now permitted to borrow for agricultural purposes.
47.       Resources for lending within agriculture are allocated according to
the annual program recommended by TCZB and approved by the Higher Committee on
Credit Regulation. This is based on performance and loan demand projections
made by branch managers which indicate agricultural land types and areas,
agricultural development potential, crop production, numbers of livestock,
number of potential borrowers and their estimated credit requirements.
48.       Interest rates have traditionally played a relatively minor role
in Turkey in resource mobilization. Their main function has been to stimulate
private investment demand in sectors, for example agriculture, which the
Government has determined have priority for development. As a result, they
have often not reflected current market conditions. Inflation has accelerated
to 24 percent in 1977, 53 percent in 1978, and 64 percent in 1979. All
interest rates have therefore fallen behind. This has prompted the Government
to place more emphasis on using them to increase financial savings and channel
these into the most productive investments. There have been successive
increases in both deposit and lending rates. Further increases in all lending
rates, including those for agriculture, have been made effective March 1,
1980.
49.       Under the project, medium- and long-term subloans will be made at
this new basic rate of 18 percent per annum (Project Agreement--hereafter PA-
Schedule, para. 4.1(b) and Annex) to individual farmers, groups, farmer



-15 -
associations and cooperatives for subloans for livestock production and breed
improvement, village broiler houses, and poultry parent and grandparent stock
farms. Corporations will pay in addition a transactions tax on interest, for
a total of 22.5 percent. For the regional processing centers and premix feed
plant under the poultry component, which are agroindustries, the rate to all
subborrowers will be 22 percent plus transactions tax, for a total of 27.5
percent. Another 1 to 2 percent is payable to cover commissions, stamp tax
and contributions to a Special Operational Fund (para. 65). Rebates are
usually 1 percent, and 3 percent more for farmers in less developed regions
receiving loans below US$7,000. The overall effective cost to most individual
farmers will thus be. 18.5 percent per annum, and 15.5 percent only for some
poultry producers in less developed provinces. The effective cost for agro-
industries will be 28.5 percent per annum. While these effective costs remain
low in relation to the current historically high inflation, they should be
evaluated in relation to projected inflation in Turkey over the expected life
of the subloans. Because of uncertainties associated with changes in economic
structure expected in response to recent government policy initiatives, it is
difficult to forecast the rate of inflation with any accuracy. However, if
the Government's policies are effectively implemented, inflation may decline
to 50 percent in 1980, 45 percent in 1981 and 35 percent in 1982 and a much
lower level by the mid 1980s. As a result, the effective charges proposed may
be expected to imply positive real rates ranging from about 1 to about 8
percent per annum respectively over the life of the subloans. Further, 60
percent of project beneficiaries will be small farmers, with per capita family
incomes at or below the Bank estimate of the 1979 relative poverty level of
$275 per capita. The interest rate for agriculture is the same as that
charged to small-scale industrial enterprises. Taking into account also the
administrative allocation of agricultural credit in Turkey (para. 47), the
effective cost of capital to project sub-borrowers is currently acceptable.
Maturities will be 10 to 12 years, with 2 to 4 years grace, depending on the
cash flow generated by the farm plan (PA Schedule, para. 4.1(c)). TCZB's
terms and conditions of lending will be reviewed in the light of changing
conditions by the Government, the Bank and TCZB at intervals not exceeding two
years from loan effectiveness, and the agreements reached implemented there-
after (PA 2.02). TCZB will receive, in addition to interest and other charges,
rebates of 3 percent from the Central Bank's interest equalization fund. Its
financial position is expected to remain satisfactory.
Performance Under the Four Bank-Financed Livestock Projects
50.       The two principal implementing agencies for previous projects have
been: (a) The General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP)
of MFAL for technical aspects, and (b) TCZB, through its Encouragement and
Development Loan Division (EDLD), for credit aspects. Field support has been
provided by the General Directorate of Veterinary Services (GDVS) of MFAL.
51.       The first project represented the first major attempt to modernize
dairying, through the establishment of a nucleus of imported pedigree Holstein
animals on private farms in and around the main milk-consuming centers of
Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana, as a source of breeding stock. Completed
and closed in February 1978, it successfully set up 159 modern dairy farms,
fewer than appraisal projections due mainly to better response by larger



- 16 -
farmers to the risks involved in adopting a new livestock technology. How-
ever, all production coefficients envisaged at appraisal were exceeded. The
PPAR on this project (No. 2542 dated June 12, 1979) raised the question of
effectively using the dairy cattle germ plasma imported under the project to
reduce future cattle imports. The proposed project aims to achieve this.
52.       The second project represented the Government's first attempts to
encourage fattening on a wide scale and to initiate village livestock devel-
opment in eastern Turkey. The fattening subproject was completed rapidly.
There were initial difficulties in the allocation of counterpart funds,
organization and the recruitment of LDP field staff for eastern Turkey.
Once these were remedied, the village development subproject was also carried
out satisfactorily at the rate originally scheduled, with strong farmer demand
for credit. Production coefficients and overall objectives were generally
met, although few of the anticipated farmer groups were formed. Disbursements
are virtually complete.
53.       The third project was designed to consolidate the gains made in
dairying under the first and extend them further in western and central
Turkey. Large numbers of pedigree Holstein and Brown Swiss cattle are being
imported. The provision of credit and technical assistance to small village
farmers is being emphasized, and 65 percent of farmer beneficiaries who have
so far received cattle are in this category. The project is making satis-
factory progress and should close on schedule in mid-1981.
54.       The fourth project attempts to consolidate and expand village live-
stock development in -!astern Turkey, and to introduce there the improved
dairying concepts prediously developed. Fifty percent of sub-borrowers will
be small dairy producers. The project is about one year behind schedule as
a result of delays in the recruitment of consultants and staff, inclement
weather and housing shortages in eastern Turkey. As of April 15, 1980, the
235 technical staff of LDP included 42 veterinarians, 56 agronomists and other
professionals, 47 middle-level animal health technicians, and 90 middle-level
agricultural technicians. Approximately 90 percent were employed in the
field. Livestock II and III are adequately staffed. However, progressive
staff transfers from the second, and later the third, projects will not
suffice to overcome the shortage of staff affecting Livestock IV. It will
therefore be a condition of disbursement for the proposed dairy, sheep and
goat components directly managed by LDP that an additional 6 veterinarians and
5 agronomists be recruited by LDP and employed in eastern Turkey (LA Schedule
1, para. 5(b)).
55.       The impact of these projects on participating farmers has by and
large been very favorable. More than 20,000 purebred cattle will finally have
been imported and distributed to farmers throughout Turkey through supervised
credit programs. Further, the Government's capacity to organize and manage
this approach to livestock development has steadily improved. In view of the
size of the national herd, it is still too early for nationwide impact at the
farm level. However, the nucleus breeding stock provided will have marked
impact on future generations through expanded numbers of improved offspring.



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
56.       The proposed project was prepared by LDP, assisted by two Bank
missions and a FAO/CP mission between September 1978 and August 1979. It was
appraised in October/November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
in April 1980. The Turkish delegation was headed by Mr. A. Yoruk of the
Embassy of Turkey and included representatives of LDP, TCZB and GDVS.
Project Objectives and Description
57.       The main objectives are to:  (i) consolidate and expand the progress
made under previous livestock projects; (ii) initiate Bank-assisted efforts in
the fields of artificial insemination, sheep and goat breeding for quality
fibre production, animal health, village poultry production and meat and mohair
processing; and (iii) raise the incomes of producers, a large proportion of
whom are small farmers below the relative poverty level in Turkey.
58.       The project will provide supervised medium- and long-term credit
to about 2,900 village producers for on-farm development in 22 mainly central
provinces having priority for development. Credit will be provided for (a)
dairy improvement (1,150 farms); (b) breeding of improved dairy cattle
(600 farms); (c) Merino sheep improvement (300 farms); and (d) Angora goat
improvement (250 farms). Poultry production will be developed for about 600
village producers, together with 12 feed and processing facilities, nine
parent stock units and the first Turkish grandparent stock and pre-mix feed
units. The project will also include artificial insemination and natural
breeding programs in some 20 central, southern and western provinces where
most of Turkey's exotic cattle are located; incidence surveys and control
programs for the economically important diseases of mastitis, brucellosis
and theileriosis in some 16 central and southern provinces; meat cutting and
intestine processing facilities mainly in existing abattoirs, and refrigerated
railwagons; and a mohair processing plant to increase exports of mohair tops
(combed bundles of clean fibre). Technical services and local and overseas
training will be provided for all components. The proposed project is des-
cribed in the Loan and Project Summary and in the Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Fifth Livestock Development Project: Turkey (No. 2894-TU) dated
May 9, 1980, being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
59.       A basic feature of the project is lending to small farmers whose
annual per capita income falls below the 1978 Bank estimate of relative rural
poverty in Turkey ($275). For credit purposes, a "small farmer" is defined
as in the 1979 Agricultural Credit Law, namely as one whose net annual pre-
development family income does not exceed the national minimum wage as updated
periodically (TL 64,800 in April 1979, equivalent to $1,376 at the time; LA
1.02(r)). It is close to the definition agreed under Livestock IV. The per
capita income of such a small farmer family, averaging 7 members in the
project area, did not exceed $197 equivalent in 1979. Of the 2,900 farmers



- 18 -
expected to participate in the project, some 1,750 or 60 percent would be
small farmers as defined. Of the $30.9 million of Bank funds proposed for
on-lending, about $13.7 million (44 percent) is planned for small farmers.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total project cost is estimated at $125 million equivalent in
November 1979 terms including some $6 million in taxes. Price contingencies
applied to both local and foreign costs at the rates of 10.5 percent in 1980,
9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982, 7 percent in 1983-85, and 6 percent in
1986 total $36.3 million equivalent. Of the total, $51 million or 41 percent
is in foreign exchange to be financed by the proposed loan.  TCZB will finance
some $22.6 million equivalent (18 percent), farmer contributions some $5.9
million equivalent (5 percent), and the Government the remaining $45.5 million
equivalent (36 percent) (LA 3.03 and PA 2.01(a)(ii)). The Government will
relend $30.9 million equivalent out of the proposed loan to TCZB, $2.6 million
to EBK, and $2.9 million to TYT, under subsidiary loan agreements acceptable
to the Bank (LA 3.02(a)(i)(ii) and (iii)). The signature of the agreement
with TCZB, an experienced borrower which will channel over half of the proposed
loan, will be a condition of effectiveness while the signature of those with
EBK and TYT, new borrowers using only small portions of the loan, will be
conditions of disbursement for the meat and mohair components respectively (LA
6.01(b) and Schedule 1, para. 5(d)). Understandings were reached that the
relending rates will be such as to leave TCZB a net spread of at least 2.5
percent on Bank funds, and will be 10 percent per annum for EBK and TYT; and
that, in line with Turkish practice, the Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk in respect of the portion of the loan relent to TCZB, while the
other 2 beneficiaries will bear the risk on the portions relent to them.
Exchange rate adjustments are expected to compensate for the difference
between inflation in Turkey and that in its major trading partners. The
Government will also make available out of the proposed loan $1.7 million to
LDP, $1.9 million to GDVS, and $7.2 million to the General Directorate of
Artificial Insemination, Natural Services and Breed Improvement (GDANB) of
MFAL. Some 266 man-months of consultant services will be provided, estimated
to cost $5.3 million in total. Average direct costs for consultant services
are estimated at $6,000 per man-month as of November 1979, ranging from $400
per day for mohair specialists to $1,500 per month for local services in joint
ventures under the village poultry component. Travel and per diem expenses
average $3,000 per man-month. These rates are reasonable for the types of
expertise required.
On-Lending Conditions
61.       Farmers applying for livestock production and breed improvement
loans will have to have experience in livestock production, access to land
sufficient to produce required incremental feedstuffs, and a viable farm
development plan prepared by LDP staff. Review and approval procedures will
be more decentralized than in earlier projects to reflect the new law and
reach small farmers. Subloans to any one subborrower exceeding $140,000
equivalent individually or in total will require prior approval by the Bank
(PA Schedule, para. 3.1(a)).



- 19 -
62.       Poultry growers will submit with their loan applications a broiler
house investment plan prepared by a technician of the Center for Technical
Support Services (CTSS) (para. 66) and approved by LDP. Credit will also be
provided for the initial purchase of chicks, concentrates and other supple-
mentary feed. Coordination of village broiler houses and regional processing
centers is particularly important to the success of this component. There-
fore, disbursement of the final one-third of broiler house subloans will
require evidence of the sub-borrower's membership in a farmer association
formed to build and operate a processing center according to a plan approved
by CTSS and LDP, while approval of subloans for the center will require the
prior formation of such an association by at least 20 farmers (PA Schedule,
paras. 2.2 and 2.4). Loans to individual growers will not exceed the equiv-
alent (as of November 1979) of $3,200 for fixed assets and $1,600 for working
capital, in line with TCZB regulations, while regional processing centers will
receive larger loans. Subloans exceeding $225,000 equivalent will require
prior approval by the Bank (PA Schedule, paras. 3.1(b)).
63.       In accordance with TCZB's Guidelines, individual small and medium-
scale farmers (the latter with family income not more than 4 times the small
farmer ceiling) will contribute at least 10 percent to investment plans,
including family labor, and large farmers at least 20 percent. The equity
contribution of small farmers can be paid in over several years. Poultry
cooperatives will contribute 10 percent and corporations 30 or 40 percent
depending on the level of development in the area.
Project Implementation
64.       LDP will have overall coordination responsibility, except that TCZB
will be responsible for credit (LA 3.01(b)(i) and (a)). TCZB's contribution
has been important to the success of previous livestock projects. Branch
management is competent, loan processing rapid, and reporting timely. TCZB
and LDP have cooperated satisfactorily. Signature of a protocol acceptable to
the Bank between LDP and TCZB, as for previous projects, will be a condition
of disbursement of loan funds for credit (LA 3.04(a) and Schedule 1, para.
5(a); PA 2.01(d)).
65.       Livestock Production and Breed Improvement.  LDP will establish a
new division in Ankara, headed by a project manager responsible to its General
Director and staffed by 30 professional and 33 middle-level technicians
(LA 3.01(b)(ii) and 3.05(a) and (b)(i) and (ii). It will appoint an inter-
nationally-recruited specialist by March 31, 1981 to advise on land-use
practices for forage crop and cereal inter-cropping production (LA 3.05(b)
(iii)). Special staff incentives for recruitment, supplementary per diem
payments to field staff and miscellaneous field expenditures (excluding
vehicle operation and maintenance) will be financed out of a Special Opera-
tional Fund (SOF) as in earlier projects. TCZB will transfer to the SOF
a portion of the interest received from sub-borrowers under this component,
equivalent to 0.5 percent per annum of the total outstanding balance on
subloans from TCZB (PA 4.02). LDP will maintain the SOF accounts and submit
them to the Bank by March 31 each year (LA 4.03(a) and (b)).



- 20 -
66.       Village Poultry Development.  This component will replicate the
innovative and tested Tarsus scheme (para. 39) directed at small villagers,
often landless, who will own and operate their own broiler houses and own
their sources of supply and processing facilities. The Government intends to
collaborate with suitable private institutions. Therefore, LDP will set up
and supervise a Center for Technical Support Services (CTSS) to arouse
interest among villagers, provide them with technical assistance (including
drawing up investment plans required for credit applications) and training,
and assist them with implementation. LDP will engage at least two full-time
internationally-recruited consultants by March 31, 1981 and part-time consul-
tants as needed over the duration of the project (LA 3.06(b)).
67.       Animal Health.   GDVS will appoint a project manager to head a new
division in Ankara which will supervise 16 existing provincial veterinary
directorates and 65 survey and control teams to be formed under the project.
The surveys and subsequent vaccination programs will cover provinces contain-
ing about one-third of the national herd and a high proportion of the pure-
bred animals. GDVS will engage technical specialists to assist it (LA 3.07
(c)) with the surveys, mastitis control and vaccine production. Funds for
equipping the 15 teams which will carry out the theileriosis control program
will only be disbursed when the production of attenuated theileriosis vaccine
at the UNDP-assisted Pendik Veterinary Control and Research Institute near
Istanbul has reached an annual level of 50,000 doses (LA Schedule 1, para. 5(c)),
which is expected to be achieved in early 1981.
68.       Charges are currently levied for vaccination against several major
animal diseases, inc.uding brucellosis in sheep and goats. They are currently
planned for theileriusis in cattle. For mastitis, the Government will devise
a scheme by December 31, 1983 for discussion with the Bank to recover as much
of service costs as is permitted by Turkish law (LA 3.07(b)). For brucellosis
in cattle, however, compulsory vaccination is envisaged because of its endemic
nature and effects on both animal and human health, and in accordance with
Turkish law, no charges will be levied.
69.       Artificial Breeding.  GDANB will appoint a project manager to head
a new division and will employ some 190 additional staff over the project
life. The existing 5 AI laboratories and 15 breeding stations will support
project staff. Artificial insemination in 20 provinces will be expanded ten-
fold until just over half of their 1.5 million breeding cattle are inseminated
each year. Frozen semen from proven Brown Swiss sires will be imported, as
well as three proven Holstein sires; production and laboratory facilities will
be expanded. In addition, 2,000 purebred heifers will be imported to build up
activities at Government breeding stations, as well as 200 Haflinger breeding
horses to help meet a recently increasing demand for draught animals.
70.       In view of the expansion of AI, the Government will formulate a
national livestock improvement plan, send it for Bank review by December 31,
1982, and thereafter implement it (LA 3.08(a)). The plan will determine the
appropriate balance between natural breeding and Al, integrate breeding
station activities and include the establishment of a herd recording scheme.
GDANB will employ a technical specialist in animal breeding to help draw up
the plan (LA 3.08(b)).



- 21 -
71.       Under present law, AI services are provided free to promote this
approach to animal breeding. However, in view of the substantial financial
benefits to farmers, charges are desirable. The Government will therefore
prepare a study on suitable charges, send it for Bank review by December 31,
1981, promptly thereafter take all steps necessary to introduce the charges,
and recover its operating costs (excluding Government salaries, per the law)
in any province within three years of the introduction of the service there
under the project, taking into account the ability of farmers to pay (LA
3.08(c)).
72.       Meat Processing.  EBK will appoint a project manager to coordinate
the meat processing activities under the project. Meat cutting facilities
will be installed at Kars in eastern Turkey, and Sakarya near Istanbul, to
serve the deficit Istanbul market or exports. Twelve new refrigerated rail
wagons will substantially reduce transport costs between eastern and western
Turkey, and permit flexibility in scheduling. Intestine processing facilities
will be installed at 12 EBK slaughterhouses in eastern Turkey. Internationally-
recruited consultants will design and supervise construction of the processing
facilities and train plant workers in on-the-rail deboning and intestine
processing (LA 3.09).
73.       Mohair Processing.  TYT will appoint a project manager and construct
a new factory in Afyon, close to the largest mohair producing provinces and
established wool textile centers, to process 1,000 tons of greasy mohair per
annum to combed tops suitable for export. It will engage internationally-
recruited consultants by March 31, 1981 for design, equipment specification
and selection, initial production and training (LA 3.10(a)). It will also
retain as and when needed an expert or experts to assist it in the export
marketing of mohair tops produced under the project (LA 3.10(b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
74.       Tractors, major items of farm machinery, poultry and meat processing
equipment and plant, vehicles and rail wagons (estimated to cost some $17 mil-
lion equivalent) will be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines (LA Schedule 4, A). Bidding documents will
state that suppliers will guarantee adequate spare parts and servicing within
Turkey. In bid comparisons, domestic manufacturers will receive a margin of
preference equal to 15 percent or the actual import duty, whichever is less.
75.       LDP will procure imported dairy cattle, breeding cattle and horses,
semen, specialized laboratory, office and field equipment/materials and visual
aids for animal health and Al, and mohair processing machinery and equipment
(some $22 million) on the basis of not less than three quotations from at least
two countries (LA Schedule 4, C.3, 4, 5, 6 and 7). Civil works for poultry
and mohair processing facilities, and animal health and AI laboratories (some
$2 million) will be procured using normal Government procedures, which are
acceptable (LA Schedule 4, C.2). Purchase of on-farm construction materials,
tools, and farm and poultry processing inputs (not to exceed an agreed aggre-
gate limit of $12 million equivalent, of which some $5 million will be dis-
bursed from the proposed loan) will be through normal commercial channels as
is usual in credit projects (LA Schedule 4, C.1). Domestic supplies and price



- 22 -
competition are considered adequate. Consultants and specialists will have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Bank.
76.       The proposed loan will be disbursed over seven years against:  100
percent of foreign expenditures for livestock, semen and training, 100 percent
of foreign expenditures or 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for
machinery, equipment and vehicles; 100 percent of total expenditures for
consultant services; 15 percent of civil works for LDP staff housing and
mohair processing; and 20 percent of amounts disbursed by TCZB for inputs for
livestock and poultry production. Disbursement against TCZB's subloans will
be against statements of expenditures which will be audited, as under the
previous projects.
Benefits and Risks
77.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 20 percent for livestock
production and breed improvement (34 percent of project costs); 32 percent for
poultry (24 percent of costs); 72 percent for meat processing (3 percent of
costs); 39 percent for mohair processing (3 percent of costs); and over 100
percent for animal health and artificial breeding taken together (36 percent
of costs). The average economic rate of return is about 70 percent. Without
taking into account the last two components, it would be about 30 percent.
Principal annual benefits at full development will arise from the incremental
production of poultry meat and ancillary products ($67 million); other live-
stock products, principally milk, meat and raw fibre ($18 million); cut meat
and casings ($13.million); and mohair tops ($15 million), for a total of $113
million. Quantified foreign exchange savings would be $17 million annually
at full development. Other benefits are difficult to quantify, but perhaps
even more significant for the economy over the long term. They include
genetic improvement of the national herd, reduction of animal mortality and
increased yields as a result of disease control, improved animal husbandry and
management, land utilization and animal productivity, further development of
institutional infrastructure, institutionalization of medium- and long-term
credit for small farmers, and increased utilization of milk and meat plants.
78.       Excluding Al and animal health benefits, the direct beneficiaries
will be some 2,900 farm families (about 20,300 persons). Financial rates of
return are estimated at: for livestock production and breed improvement,
from 44 percent for 5-cow dairy units through 31 percent for goat breeding to
around 20 percent for all other activities; for poultry 35 percent; for meat
processing, 34 percent for the Kars plant and over 100 percent for the other
investments; and for mohair processing 46 percent. As a result of the project,
per capita incomes of farmers in the relative poverty target group will rise
as follows: for 5-cow dairy farmers and sheep breeders, a tripling to around
$800 and $350 respectively; for goat breeders and village broiler house
operators, a quadrupling to around $700 and $450 respectively. Employment in
livestock activities will be provided for these farm families plus about 650
families providing labor, benefiting some 24,800 persons. An additional 2,130
jobs will be created in the AI and animal health services, in upstream and
downstream poultry activities, and in meat and mohair processing. Project



- 23 -
output at full development could supply 387,000 milk consumers and one million
poultry and red meat consumers at present consumption levels.
79.       The viability of village broiler houses depends crucially on timely
and coordinated construction of the regional processing centers. TCZB will
therefore require that subloan approvals and disbursements contribute to this
coordination (para. 62). Also, these facilities have been kept small and
viable with single-shift operation. The principal risk in mohair processing,
that TYT will not achieve the quality or marketing standards necessary to
enter a somewhat exacting market, is being addressed by employing marketing
experts. The impact of Turkey's current economic problems--especially budget
stringency and foreign exchange shortage--may be most acute on Government
salaries and allowances, which are generally too low to attract sufficient
numbers of qualified staff to hardship areas. As with other projects in
Turkey, it could also affect the availability of spares and petroleum products
for project vehicles.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural Bank
of Turkey (TCZB), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. In addition, the following features are of particular interest:
(a)  An additional condition of effectiveness is the signature of a sub-
sidiary loan agreement between the Government and TCZB (LA 6.01(b)).
(b)  Additional conditions of disbursement for individual components are:
(i) signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Gov-
ernment and EBK (LA Schedule 1, para. 5(d)).
(ii) Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Gov-
ernment and TYT (LA Schedule 1, para. 5(d)).
(iii) Signature of a protocol between LDP and TCZB (LA 3.04(a)
and Schedule 1, para. 5(a); PA 2.01(d)).
(iv) Recruitment and deployment of an additional 6 veterinarians
and 5 agronomists by LDP for field work in eastern Turkey (LA
Schedule 1, para. 5(b)).
(v)  Annual production of at least 50,000 doses of attenuated
theileriosis vaccine (LA Schedule 1, para. 5(c)).



- 24 -
82.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 13, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
A-  NEX  I
?tAl   3                                      Page       of 6
3U7 - SOCIAL JDMICAIOC  DATA SRG
inmcz olamw  CAOJO  I5amS
13ZVTU3AL    352.0                                10MM  new      33AMC    INCUS           VC"
194  ,.   1970 a U?D       oz  7eP   c   34?d   C SF
vU 1 CAP7  (e53)                  2M0.0       520.6   1210.0         19m.3    1091.7       1942.
_xLc3       0 lm         A)       245.0      479.0    743.0            33       230.7      1.7
Eow eino. u.b-*   c         s)     21.3        35       42.9
3.IAPW rJATZO  (M 1 Of IVL) 29.7             3.4      42.9           543       49.0        51.2
IOFMLATIOUDM3T
103a710 3 TM  MO (101L1)                            940
3U47a18 POIIATZU  (         ).0
7U S1T61 3 109W 10PUL0T61 3  3A                   30D9
e.w mn
9 10. m                        53.0       45.       54.0     *      1J        A.4       3
J O0. o3. j m       a U        31.0       644       74.0          13n.8      140.7      100.5
7013.4103*1 A=Smim= 
0-14 us.                       41.3        41.7     41.0 eA4                 413         34
13-4  us:                       55.2       54.       54.0           4.J       553        56.3
5 Us m  Alm                      3.5         4        5.0           1042       3.5        34
-OUL                            LJ          3.5   13                0.9       2.A         1.7
5313  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                  Li11   5.  4.1           2.A       4.5        3.
3 1 SIM 21 (M   am63)    43.0                 SA      3.       e       .5      314        27.5
0  KM2 3421 (PD =S3)    J.0                 3.3.0     20.0            94.       S* ..
=m  I. Din 241  AM         '       .9        3.        34a                      2 .114
A0C3r0,. AMR  (tU0wiU)           -J         5.f     14._
ID   or27 3396n0?
MM   ( I r           M)         71.0       73.0     7nJ7  9i.4               4n.0
O- 101  6100. 8D 1.             ..      M.0A   24.7              45.4      24          51.
U (AS 1_ 4) "00       1 0 .0             M.       10.            1'.        4.0       5.1
cam13 (A                         zWso"   m 3.0~    sq3   114.0       .31.       *A.       44.
-g  4T                     )               53.0     7540 .                   40 .3      49.
7JItAt NRLram  tm
0sca)                            S7@0/t      MA      I.8       .     XJ        46'7        5
sD2L                   ..       1~~~~~~~~~~3.0  730       ..        J         -
3334                             *.        51.0    -70.0             ..      75.7       tla
M.,1                             ..        53.0      00              ..      eo         43.0
Jis 20 UiaL 5S3203  (P r
OF fO13.6=0)
,                                ..          -        ..             ..      4.0        70.
3318                             ..         ..      *4               ..      44.0       433
-      _ .        _.        3 25.5   s                  352
101OL4r70   MD h ciw           300.U         5.0   1700 4m1o                  5" 61      13.2
I0e3J170U  MD   1Ic penoff         ..      3 0   1450.0             477.1    119.4       755.0
PO10OLATCM ipn 90wr21 so
Tom41                          590.oU     4.       490.10         30.       45.4        1971.
Li"M                          190.of0    200.0    210.0              .      253.        260.3
30311:..    5090.0   s750.0                                           .    22.a        2035.0
ADaSIs MU NOSY                     ..        20.0     20.0           15.3      22.1        17.3
A S35 OF 300532W
TOML                            5.7         5.9       ..             ..       5.3         4.?
5.2        4.4
.L                               ..          ..       ..             ..      35.          5.1
£731003  07 11It5  S   CS
7TOM                             ..         2.2       ..             ..       1.9         1.1
51165                           2.0         1.9       ..             ..       1.4         1.2
303RA                            ..         ..        ..             ..       2.5         1.2
AsCOS TO D.     cm  (r!CI    DT
or DUeLL=S)
TTAL                           29.0        40.0     37.0                     50.0        4.0
3.'.                            2.0        1.0        ..             ..      1-3



-26 -                                               ANNEX I
TABtt 3A                                         Page  2  of  6
TUR1EY - SOCAL.L INDMCATORS DATA SHEET
TURiCEY                   REFEtENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVEFACAG
- HOST 51ECZNT ESTLIATE) a
SAME        SAKE     NE)= HIGHER
N0T RECENT      CEOCRAPHIC   I0CONE       L'1CO1E
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      RECION /c  CROUP /d   GROUP /
EDUCATION
ASTED ENROLLENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 75.0       109.0     104.0           105.7      102.5       101.7
MALE                 90.0       124.0    114.0            107.1      108.6       110.0
FEMLE                58.0        94.0      94.0           104.5       97.1        92.8
SECONDARYT  TOTAL                 14.0        28.0      29.0            65.9       33.5        51.2
MALE                 20.0        39.0      39.0            70.3       38.4        56.4
FEMALE                8.0        16.0      19.0            62.2       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. tS OF SlCONDARY) 18.0         14.0      15.0            20.4       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACNER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0        38.0      34.0            26.7       35.8        21.I
SECUNDA*Y                         19.0        28.0      27.0              ..       22.9        25.3
AWLT LITJRACY RWA  (PIIS)           36.0        55.5/k    60.0              ..       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPiSON
PASSENGER CARS PER TflOUSdtD
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0      11.4           105.5       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PM THOUSA%D
POPULATION                        69.0        89.0    105.0            233.7      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PU TIOUSA2D
POPULATION                          ..         3.0      12.0           148.0       36.3       1Q.6
:WESPAPER (CDALY GENERA!L
INTEREST") CIRCtLATlON PER
IIOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0          ..        ..              ..       40.0        78.5
CIEM  ANNUAL ATMNSAJt P   CAPITA  1.1            6.7        ..             6.4        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
5014!ALLABOL FORCE (THOGSA1CDS)    13783.0   15591.0  17052.0
FEMALE (PR )                      40.2        37.2      37.3            32.3       25.0        24.5
AGRICLTURE (PERCET)               76.5        67.7      62.0            25.8       43.5        28.9
DUSTLY (PERCENT)                  10.5        12.1      14.0            33.1       21.5        30.6
PARCIPATTON RATE (UCEN)
lOSAL                               50.1        44.3      42.8            37.6       33.5        33.8
MALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2            37.0       41.O        51.3
faLE                                41.2        33.4      32.1            2L0        16.8        16.3
EZCONIC DCNPEMCY "no l                 0.9         1.0       1.1             LO         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRXIUTSON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE sICOME
RECEIVED By
KIcEsT 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/h       32.8/1      ..              ..       20.8
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSENOLDS  61i.07i     60.671    56.5/.          47.9       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.27ii      2.97I    3.47h            5.0        3.9         3.4
-iRK  40 PENS  of SOUSEVOLDS   10.6wN          9.47r    11.47;i         15.4       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASOLUTE POVER  SNC>M
lEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
URAN                                ..          ..     330.0              ..      270.0
AL                                  ..          ..    162.0               ..      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY I!COMZ
UEVEL (USs PR CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    385.0               ..      262.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    367.0            436.1      24.9        403.4
ESTI!!ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUE
POVERTY INCOIE LEML (PERCENT)
URMAN                               ..         ..         ..              ..       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..       ..               ..       35.3
Not available
Not agoll*bia.
Zero                                               NOTES
/a    The adjusted gfoup averages for oech indicator are population-weighted geoutric means, excluding tbe extreme
values of the indicator and the most popua1ted country in each group. Coverage of countries asmg tba
indicators depends on availability of data and is not urnfort.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between L969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Europe;  /d  Intermediate Yiddle Income ($551-1135 pr capita, 1976);  /a  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500
per capica, 1976);  /f  1955-60;  /2  1965-70;  lh  1963;   /i  1967; Li 1962;  lk  Six yars and above;
/1  1968;  in  1973.
Most Recent Estimte of CMX per capita is for 1978.
February 1980



ANNE I
ta moe owA IIICAIth                                                    Page  3  of  6
IV'  c-steable beeea. Or the la, of atsadoddeflatlt.Seem    tooep."  see  b dffteeet DONttee In tdl.etfti tWm data. lbe daiS wte, iantvhsto ,
Us"". to desribe DM"er of ~iee   slodu&  temle. meA eha,athel.  ow1515 objar 61frtesee bolbiSa comli te.
Theadieto  re. .e.. fe eteo ladjeetamn  powstieletedemeti  SOON, esoiftdI                "t .. . ...     at Its tei"te  sad the met elad
emiy p   echarep.ba t lack feat U. 6"e.p eweeses of "L Uk         s" id* tie fOelPltsJ h.rist 011 kiti-re ba" of U leditajrsato Adeedd... L Os  rs  leaot
Mepolol, Woeals, te.. bStlwtlloti  am  Ae.erty toy Ut., os-lly gSaps se  we9atletoseighted Ofntric reems esthesi essLeGe  r ~t 1   sm -tOe Oeseo me
the metp0.. Sne.1b.tereret I.? mOted. mmtwe edlotove de-t. -s .SLlahllity Of getS -A I. ot ,e foe   estlo   s1 be  -ftleto
X'solr 1a i -   the  -.ftneat "rott . £15300.
r    - Th et resist atlat. o agt welerlmei ae.me go"   sril?w         peeeesleg   ef their w.eopetleo ppattelims. bwer." dispeal oWIn ieS
Or penomLAY fte  cm", Pestte. met" a" Oltahesgoft"e or to                  th   oiete V1" m  l dlspaee, with Ws elthet tteasmt, ehof es s"onat
U*. feuse.                                                                 ml meeoo n~Oter by eshee.We setwO W the- seee pdt p.iiota  red &.aile
*  rCpPP        emovis demttit  at meetL meh  Prig",                 .,       ,, .    PNPIst*m 111ided b' -oee ef prat"IeG    atI
MVfl'!    tee%ee Method om e I beld       Lila (19716-7S heste).      ft      M    hp           edl eshos at vmonltly le.el.
176. 110 NAd 1975 data.                                                    =10a0e  w  onris.roeve . Pepaistie divided by gmee  af Pv.etlcote  saw
%coa se LWU9   1"EML. otelm-Or tore-, et  mmead amne-m   Oendaiere,petii   e..a   elts   55
theoml eXesutriity) Am iLllepws  of sawl eqaleslet pa ea?it; 170,            pblo n pri           tome tepttie." emlr t  eptl  bed  aesolabioni
1910, WAi 1976 del..                                                         spehau       a Pltoabiames  mlepeelee   eepl. IN     .balttiscie
TOZOL  .T146  MO 7 LM!)   As o 043VI. 190, ig. emabeoptalsa brom te islbjleeotepe NeAl Motato gum .5bt as. menl S.ate
by & ebyalele;; btv by a isLOe swasitet, woree, si*elfe. aec.) .mAb otter
hebe Poslsi97iseMes Of tete) . Mmu& of mm to let"l pepsisthes           la-POSAt 401.0OUiS  WA P--Ate a hlNted ?%W of =di"ml fOSeliOG..
iiyis   aIalue   DT aIa.N area. NW  aftact OeM&.hl3.ib   at dabta  A! f l                                  of maI"m se W "lmfobea  tie
ELYWD           W~b  W. ml Ore ml theic eseteliw ad toethty        A-eee  ail or tbahi  etm             .thod-ttl  iem 
NsAe. peejeeti.. Painte. fwteeontai.it  estee        Ofle   at thA   eetd  eese Alook.4o.e  P nzbtalvidei m  es  ii) imtem
I&eesleinmleg life arplsu   a birth ieresalmg stLh ewmnry-e              ther sal eaissl. A hesibe or laSso NW W    tt W e tIs.   edm La NWe
pWee  itt. Uteam "Lesl, ml tOme* lie e.peetam  Isteblolig at             heseehei tee etaitlalel polpsee.
17.9 Yeses. Sle meembtI tee fertility Istk aim hat thre 1.,.           hn. Ie   toretx   os  oal  ham   nl    oseOe
aele    uSt is frwtIlt  aceeAbe s tom"m  levl ml was          ~        pemprm   a              ee,      eeleepe sseuis   oie.
bo l, eeeie  paee. see emnete  IS this motioned -o of mm              eeepiftlatr. beLLie. 4wfisdeo m-peeNmme etinbei  mld meseepted pelt
of peam.                                                                                                di g g.ettSem   a. pism am     D    at
mg~~~h'~  - is a etictlaw" pepstiae  am"Is 5me geis                  tesa-, esbot  Ml iWa& bolliw  eeepnuel.ey
slw aWt.m,  is tqse to the dstk Vas", am  .15 be MP
eh*esm at robo eelme  'toweitmeety. so easlimey pm.               Pr3mrymlotawl, isze MAtmhs imnel-
Mutm aLW aso islUoeste  M   be hat of U* pauseeed mmbaueel.5150            mo  "Nilewph. * mmyid                W. p-esoeisne  of vaweapesoi SIVIN
at te   ii la  the  e        wU   w  e  iNo to" ofmI1555 at teethilb       wmbesgs pepeltlsets monvll, Amiawde  ebide  me" 6-Il yen  but
ekie he eepI  Iaeel.                                    edl~~~~~0moeeld tar dilftesis leepi  of whiny afesmies   e iesa
Is      ern  we  at mor WAR      siounwppoWm    mwtal        iitesu oeeetsum"i   meWtgood IG      Uwele mam PepSI
- hes Wow Wi abenV eftiss moml Ps.
-    (~~~~~~~~~)     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -                   .I ed           Comd es ehaee; eis
Cors" medow  ftrtioreasla Iit        mil af 32 hem 17 Veas of on;  wmepmdmee  gomes ans pomel
- - a~~~~~~McmomuqI-  =                                                                                 r
tim.-e Y%nel. aWS retre le~ For smi me        as pmemmon We mmdrome                   mt m"! =. is        pa   emshwt ,        ~,i
ibeotle;  960 190, sA  917doee.                                      deiimmsmiof at  omo  atistittim a.
YMPQ& tku         1L.~   ~        - mmal Broo  ro55at or    l %A" S       beltwe          eA,ms                    - miS   mlit umaled is
Swer P"Ummum-nr &759-9..  am lvjv~~~?T.                mikbm             U-kmvm.=              toodomi J e mews.=
Co."str"!   (m  lbgw) -Am   11. U   biseh  pee ftm    or S&d-                                  pepeaiets ais" 19 yawe mot ".
CPO"                 1)- Siheemmr a dmeameV fbamm orl bea Ilsld5n~bim3m    bie,-                                                 a   ti
la          mlls prte  itmlswim..m Peeses mo-                       05153i.5
19-0 mlm190.                                                                                          t       AU at ppieofs reisIe M slieise
im,e meI                                 l  misSt                   nsm eis et gmMR   w Se _Pen  ma t          Peasijis h  m    it   nI
messes. of   1101151   p    mrb & iseptm t stiin  tor,atet be.VW              be        MAe yese vws "M hegiestraio ofs  eto WuW"in
PbhPIf 2 -&alft Veest.  meedmm    boemewe-.80110 at meted                 - 77 beles M  "psv Weea  o r-fltts      =v77    le   breheleet to ogame
atdat  friendl  tomi eies aiseis. mor. It to e~Int*ee   to be  ol
eadese"d met         It it aepes" at leset ew, theean  eeat.
tow ml to M ishmmar Vie beets. coiitkee eover p.1me   obWmhseltsi                                 eCa.aoniebate the iomis or uticet
wom.m~omm. Ameeed of Ware) mAcb at. idtbi aod eestaeettb                 atdra  teyn    tg55eee5*disI   lsa   b5
Oe  r ete  ml lee are  )esated). tsoatnt pettis or each eman           sItS.
esha  ss tiee                               toempieborW. frstte
be   it eeej a elee. leteett of eeelweets)   ~ dte                  A  ~
meareqmit Or si tteO espeLleea.hsl Is cratiy pVW  apita                              W-mm"~iie~ ) . kemmtealS  eti. ewmese, tealatdma
VW dw. Awailahi spllee W eImes   euhi Po   Sim, tU'vte Aes"           1 760e eaiesinied bet SWIedIS heseeslos, etedesl, SU. heltiette
QWts. MAlws  Lae 5*etee. Set s.Ptlae ewet.e d.mlm teed. moad.            to ~ea-s. emell, rme a" coos-ate.
- -    utltA     seat 5la food peeeaeaiag. Mt loease1.   dialvIhetie.. heAlte.-  Poelopeet) -Vmla. thee teesW a.  eeeaieto total lben tewee.
Wroe "Mt mebeleud by Mt base on WeLswisgies Omad  fe toeinl             M=  jw mya$) . IWhr frie. is ftamle   ter"utoy  incus WA
esVtiOl dad helt  miSerie  enie.msai trpieeaeaeo  baby                     -4" a   fiiPtiereegae or %tota  las  tow...
OP am mor distrawUmme o f ppealtJor, a" amlestg la0P peoe fte                              JoIah.rteAvaai.(eTla,Leel)"AMa
onto St mbeAdul    c.ity. estP mlem ao.   e~eeswegof to.al l.bis tetm.
rev ee,it. mitts of ytoteie   ~    ."Oo- ishI"WSwIS  is                                           ! sltg  .eemls   refoil   meP"
%:1. ,   ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ eepyof to"d L. isilad W                       eett.Lty est  ee  O sispLede a. tatal, easoLO   n. ae  oe.a 
ekes.V. hegeemet t- all emeries etatbliehed by U=t prool. tee a           ..et.s.. of totl., sIe be toi. psep"*jit   rf al eges roop"i_st7
etaema slI       t50sm of toto   "al pt-tola We dee go  20 geor at      MO0. 1970. ml 197 del.. TbIee ewe lIWe PaWtilpoitLe  tote  "tatleeil
estee  mg Pise weIsks, of thick 30 grm, ebeald he eStaLl P-mnes.         eg-es   t~tetr, et tbe PepeAWiSO, Ord lead time tt . A te- esttiste
hems atisme at. saw e tin thea %ofo 75 woem of total woet. a"           fte, tres rtiemi. eestoes.
59 Pm of 10,leal P.0LOW5* aM is s.eee  te  the vo, P"""a by nSo                 D_ ~ AU     mAle of Vpewlettom eade 3$  d 69 old m    to
In the 7011d meILi Feed ie-.e.                                           abs eerfe.  Iso DONa  a.em.0ip  of I7. pewsts
hr Cettetree ta eit  fr-, sotI ml toss . teeteis dp93  at' roew
thtila.e  i-. I  .tette  ot. terta.t.mA  . tma  datP.we ..-        --- d  eeete.e of Pryt-% am. et  o  atlbld  - beseibed by etehesi
5. ee die 1.. usra  .. oilirs i  .l atoge =opi tee ma  owl            perist rimttOwee3pt              2  e     ,ml Pooestee 1.0we
epieg cmmittee data dee   ~ fres Life tb"LOe.                              or bomi5hels.
-~  bweine, t 5500 I~esie  .A-roe..t i et Vfrveat at lIre           is        Ab..l.5001t- Ptyilte%aesicee L 01rteaia   aI.a   fetL
reintsLed at birh; itt * i*'.. sd 51977. lab- t               t.eit potrty                                         :ed ee  s etms   odbb   b~   aiitL=
Safet 5itai51whet- (te t.~ee.J). Ial  eath oflatst.    as  etliislle"  &deqeate diet pieS eSOVItat" ma-feed re".Iloomat*a i-t
Ate.. 1$hef balr Ifirtt '1e.r.iat..e. .    I,ai  --e Id total   stimmt..  %.ititPeoty In.. iee 1.57  I 05Eqj%.115   - ieoe "At ,es
safe este  eoeg'iy Iii. eat-,itara  eater orLetrotW 6t                     P_eeesa &om ot ta re tew.o"bs ieei I. Aretee tie, the esrl ts-t
inestesitot" este  seh a.teat Mloe perterte  paeheIa eel.                  .5th            Mretao   be igher teat ri lt,leg ie teeta35
ml _1" "ie.  nutS as Poretteet Cf as..: tepertie pp.tsls.    i            tioe   teIto   eietsit -eiwSCS StS(~reII                           tm
isea.b.a bess a   it, fointais oe tweepet leeatd Mat no  tOss              felPw.e   fppeai  are   e    ai  01se   toltsPoO
Sser. re a bels W Sty 0  OnlOeed a. et.eg .itbie iea.lethe
sie. of Sat lero.  5* eseeI. ae..O mes osbb  see  essid Set
btthetu  hqeesits Or welce  ef the b.-.ea.I.i do ant ha.  to Seted a                                         oeroOLe med betel ftt. 01.ietee
diesprtie.l. we atth der to tew"tlb     be ftlesle*  este teed"                                    heisU. inStale.  md Pfalst-LmQ  b"Apawst
February 1980



, 28
TURKEY - ECGNOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SISET-                                   ANEX I
Page 4 of 6
Share of
A c t u a I                   P,evlstneOi               P r o Ise  t end                           Gr.o.th ate tDP
i970      1973     1975      1977      1978      1979      1980      1982      1983      1985       1990      78-78     79-85     85_90     1978
A. NAIIONAL ACCOUNTS (lT. Billion. 1978 Prices)
1  Gr          ic predt                        720.3   876 1    1034.2    1172.1    1012.7   1230.9   1249.3    1344.7   1405.2   1534.6    1912.3             6.7       3.7       4.5    1000
2.  Gain Free norms of trade                    -8.0      38       -0.2     -10.1       3.0     -14.2    -02.8       -33.8    -37.8    -49.1  ~-89.6            -        --                  00
3. Grone de.estin In-oee                       714.3   879.9    1034.0    1162.0   1212.7    1316.7   1226.6    1311.7   1367.5   1485.5   1822.7              6.8        3.4       4.2    100.0
4.  Onporns (B n NFS)                           42.7     66.3      35.8      54.4      67.2       64.0      86,0     101.1    126.3    151.3       230.9       5.8       15.4       8 8      5.5
4.  leporns (G e NFS)                           60.3     93.9     140.4     187.4      118.8    103.1      114.9     131.3     136.1    145.2    176.6         8.9       5.9        4:0       9 8
6.  Inneseonent                                130.3    138.1    245.8      273.2    248.4      238.5     238.5      253.4    266 6      295 1     380.2       8 4       3 6       5 2      20.3
7. Ceesooptioe                                 590.4   723.7    846.5       974.4    1015.9    1021.9    1036.4  17i6.6   1148.4    1233.3   1477.8            7.0       3 2       3        83.8
6 o 34snInsonlegs i129 .9   152.4    187.7                            197.7     196.8     209.0    212.9    238.1    256.8    301.1    434.5             5.3       6.3       7.6      16.2
9.  Nti-Ian                                    143.3    191.3     214.2     213.0     212.7     225.2    229.2    257.8    277.7    321.7          438.8       3.1       6.1       7        17.5
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                                                       Share of Total Soteat (Psent)
g. A0rinoinure                                  29.6    27.9       29.5      28.1      27.0      26.8      26.7      26.2      25.9       29.0      24.2
2   Indostry                                    27.2    26.3       26.1      24.1      27.7      27.5      27.4       27.8      28.2      25.4      31.0
3. Other                                        43.2     45.6      44.4      45.8      45.4      45.7      45.9       46.8      45.9      45.6      44.8
C. PRICES 1(1978 - 100)
1   Epo   pri                                   43.7     63.8      84.0      95.4    103.8      105.6     110.1    122.2    128.89    143.9    386.9
2    porn price                                 47 7     61.8      84.2      96.8     100.0    125.6    147.9    170.8         183.8     213.1    385.5
3.  Terms of trade                              91.6    103.2      99.7      99.6     103.0      84.1      74.4      71.3      70.1       67.3      61.2
4.  0DP deflator I                              20.2    33.t       50.2      73.4     100.0    160.0      240.0    452.0    343.8    718.0   1444.2
5. Anerlge eeohoe8e eats (11.00 = TL)           11.0     14.2      14.4      18.0      24.3
P. PUBLIC FINANCE                                               Petene  of GDP
1.  Teonoal govrn,oeenceoeeae22.6    20.9              23.1      24.2      24.7
2. Central gonnre,neennepeadit.re              2Z4.9    228        23.7      237.9     5 65
3.  P6l       e I tnr deficit 31                  -       2.1       6.1       9.0
e c _                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Est.
1970-78                                                                          1970     1975      1977     1978
E. SELECTED INDIC4TORS                                                          F. LA4OR FORCP
100R                                             3.0                             CEn11iao labor feref  (eillion)               13.6    15.3       16.2     16.1
Import elsnticity                                2.4 4/                          Unesployeet aed Oed.r..POYIoEY (1 of GDP)   11 0        1273     13.1     13 5
Anerags  oossticit snerae49Cttienpiyntlila)13.1    14.7    14.8                                                                                            14.7
a rgin l do= tilc caning rate                   13.6                               of 8inh (17.)
Inoeontoeon/45P                                 20.2
toporno/0DP                                     11.4                             Agnlnnltre0                                    67.1     64.5    61.6      61.3
I.P..-/GDp                 Ii:4                              AgIi-l~~~~~~~~~odot-y1.                                14.9      16.3     16.7
Oth-                                          19 6     20.6     22.1     22.0
Totals my ot add op bsoaooe of e-niadf9s eneots.
4  Prej-tnnd -atc  of oflatiE D arm Mtghly ap.e..lttve *ad sbJiet to obsess.
B .orrowIng r-q irs-t of .-ertel gearoost. *t to eenDe anterprfse- sd ethor prbico sothortlts.
4/ -e 1970-77 pserid.                                                                                                                    Fabroor  1988



-29-
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYhENTS                                                               ANNEX I
(million US Dolla-)                                                                   Page 5 of 6
Actual                       PrevIsional  -Projected
1970      1973       1975      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981      1982       I983       1984      1985       1990
A.  SU1ARY OF SALANCE OF PAYMENTS
I.  Exports of good, and NFS                          754      1799       2152      2556       3108        3200      4050       4816       5839      6706       7771      8971      17787
2   Imports of goods and NFS                        -1096     -2391      -5219     -6436      -5059       -5550     -7000      -8140      -9239    -10305    -11485    -12751    -22229
3   Resource balance                               - 342      - 592      -3067     -3880      -1953      -2350      -2950      -3324      -3400     -3600      -3714     -3781      -4442
4.  Interest (lot) 1/                              --  47     -  59      - 124      - 570     - 680       - 900     -1200      -1350      -1406     -1453      -1597      -1749     -2294
5.  Profits                                        -  33      -  35      -  36     - 116      -  60      -  50      -  60        -80       -103      -108       -114       -120      -150
6. W-ork-rn  ronittances                             273       1183       1312       982        983        1700      2150       2500       2700      2916       3149      3401       4998
7   Net factor seefrice infone                        193      1089       1152       366        243         750       840       1070       1191      1355       1438      1532       2554
8. T-ansn-f.                                           91        18         23         12        -           -          -         _          _         _          _
9.  Current account balance                        -  58        515      -1892     -3572      -1710      -1600      -2110      -2254      -2209     -2245      -2276     -2249      -1888
10.  Priva-t  foreign capital                          92         77        251       169        147        200        200        240        268       302        342       378        660
11.  Public medium A long-tne- (lM6 (lgross) 2/       271        376        386       502        530       1020       1230       1650       2653      2814       3440       3281      4640
12.   zoortieation of public MALT 1/ 2/             - 146      .  72      - 117     - 214      - 380      - 550      - 900      -J200      -1606     -2261      -2544     -2710      -3212
13   Public MALT (Net)                                 125       304        269       288        150        470        330        430       1047       552        896       571       1428
14.  Short-term  (not) 31                               66      -235       1159      1807       1097         335        230      -130       -172      -123        -94        -58        -
03.  Capital not included e-hewere _/               -  39         67     - 204        742        464        521        1500      1844       1404      1682       1318       1558       169
16.  Change in reserves (- - increase)              - 186      - 728        417       566      - 148          74      -150       -150       -338      -168       -186      -200       -369
B. MALT LOAN COMMITMENTS 5/                               506       547        755      1205       1407        2504
Public Sector                                         487        491        649      1105       1307        2404
1.  Bnk group                                         40        135        158       144        358        371
2.  Other multilater-l                               1132       100         40         6         54        7di
3   Gover-nente:  narskt nonomine                    1154       718        197       282        288        1320
4.  Go-rn-ents:  centrally planoed economies         114         3          3        150       204          90
5.  SupplIers                                         47          4         79       260        123
6.  Financial inetitrtions                             -         32        172       263        281      j51
7   Other                                             -          -          -
Private sector                                          19        56        106       100        100         100
C. AVERAGE TERMS OF MALT LOAN COMITMENTS 5/
1.  Grnt element 1%)                                37.4       39.2       15.6      11.4       14.2         14.2
2.  Interet        (12                                3.6       4.7        7.2        7.6       7.2          7.0
3. Mtcurity        (ym-rn)                           18.8      25.7       13.5      11.6       10.8         f1.5
4.  Grace          (year)                            4.6         7.1       3.8       4.2        3.1          4.9
1/ Net of debt relief.
i/  Up tn and including 1978 theme figures arm gevrnemeMt s,timtes,   bnh ate ot   e et with Rank DES data.
3/  Malinly ..nv-rtiblm  Tur-kih lies deposit  acceptance credits, nernil and nil arrea, bhakers-  credits, reimburs- nt credit, o-erdr-ft, and Dresdnnr SBnk s.eme deposit.
4/  Including errors and smisiune up ti  1979; for projected years it iecludss gspfill, and pri-ets  h&LT borr-vinge onanet basis.
Public  nd publicly guar-nt-sd eaimrnal debt only.
February 1980



TURKEY - EXTERNAL DMB SAND CREDITrWTINESS                          AM=NE  r
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                   Provisional
1970       1973        1975       1976        1977      1978             1979
A. OUTSTADDiG DIMT (Killion US Dollars)
1.  Public Medium  nd Long Tero (K snd LT)(Diburmad)  1             1854       2069        3176       3519        4326      6100            10956
2.   Private N and LT (disbursd)  1/                                  42        115         160        253         A79       557              650
3.   Short Ter   /                                                     .        279        1398       3441        66U0      7469             3770
4.  Total 0utstanding Disbursed Debt                                1896       3263        4734       7313       11405     14126            15376
5.   Undiabursed Public N and 12  1/                                 840       1101        1641       2393        2804      3500             3800
S. DErT SERVICE (Iillion US Dollars)
1.   Interest on *11 Debt (net of relief)  3/                       -47         -59       -150        -300        -570      -710             -930
2.  Aortization of N aad IT Debt (not of relief)                   -146         -72        -117       -119        -214      -380             -550
3.   Total Debt Service Paymnts                                    -193        -131        -267       -419        -784     -1090            -1480
C. D DT DWI
1.  Debt Srvice Rtlo  4/                                           18.8         4.4        7.7        11.2       22.2       26.7             30.2
2.   Total Outstanding Dtsbursed Debt/GDP  5/                       15.0       15.7        13.1       17.9        23.9      28.3             28.5
D. W0sE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstading Disbursed Debt                 7.2         7.8        9.1         7.6        6.1        6.0              6.9
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     3.2        14.9        12.2       10.8        8.3        7.7              7.7
K.  C(UO5ZTIN OF TOTAL CUTSTANIDINI DISB11RED DEBT                                1978                                 1979-6
CKflUice US Dollars)            D(Aount)  (As % of Total)                                   (AMount)  (As X of Total)
1. Nediun & LS-Term Debt                                                   6657         47.1                  11606          75.5
a.     Public Medium end Long-Ter                                      6100         43.2                  10956          71.3
(i)  Bank Group                                                 836           5.9
(ti)  Other Nultiliteral                                         612           4.3
(iII)  Covermnts                                                 3900          27.6
(iT)  Suppliers                                                  170           1.2
(v) 7insncial Inatitutions                                      545           3.9
(Vi)  Bonds                                                       35           0.2
b.     Private  ediun and long-Tem  (Total)                             557          3.9                    650           4.2
2.  Short Tem                                                              7469         52.9                   3770          24.5
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lire Deposits                         2860          20.2
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Co_ercial end Oil Arraers              1675          11.9
(iti)  Acceptance Credits                                         862           6.1
(Iv)  BROUre Credits, Retiburemet Credits,Overdrafts             924           6.5
(v) Dresdner Bank                                               363           2.6
(vi)  BIe                                                        622           4.4
(vti)  Other                                                      163           1.2
3. Total Outetandina Disbursed Debt                                       14126         100.0                   15376       100.0
1/  ank DRS dat.
/ sed on Turkieh Central Bank stimates.
a Based on Turkish Bal nce of Paymets data, except for 1979.
4/ Total debt sevice (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
At market prices.                                                                                                    February 1980
6/ leak st*ff *etimate.
IERIA CPIIA



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
Economic Policy Package
On January 25, the Government announced,through several inter-
locking decrees, a rather comprehensive economic policy package. It is
not only a strong stabilization program, but also one that lays the foun-
dation for some structural economic changes and desirable modifications
in medium-term economic policies. The detailed decrees are being trans-
lated. Meanwhile based on extensive explanations of what they contain,
the principal elements are summarized below.
Exchange Rate Regime
(a)      The Turkish Lira, whose parity value was TL35 = US$1.00 except
for several commodities that had a premium fixed at TL47 = US$1.00, has
been devalued by nearly 100 percent to TL70 = US$1.00. A lower multiple
rate of TL55 - US$1.00, now applies only to the import of fertilizers,
insecticides and inputs for both.
(b)      In future, cross rates will be adjusted automatically by the
Central Bank. The principle is also established that so will the ex-
change rate vis a vis the US$ (after discussion with a new Money and
Credit Committee (para. q below)), generally determined by the differen-
tial rate of inflation in Turkey and its trading par:ner having the
weakest currency.
(c)      The temporary 20 percent stamp duty on imports is reduced to
1 percent, thus linking exports and imports directly to the exchange
rate.
(d)      The difference between TL earned from exports of key agricultural
commodities and the prices fixed on a weight basis by the Government as
those which provide sufficient incentives to the producers, are to be chan-
nelled into a Price Stabilization Fund now with the Central Bank. From this
Fund, the Government will cover subsidies on fertilizers, provide export
credits etc. to exporters and cover export risk insurance until institu-
tional facilities in that regard are approved by Parliament.
Export/Foreign Investment Incentives
(e)      Except for commodities covered by agriculture support prices, for-
eign exchange earned in exports totalling less than $50,000 can be retained
abroad by the exporters. Over that, the exporter is allowed to retain 50
percent of export earnings to be applied towards the import of his inputs,
provided he advises his bank handling the transaction within 6 months of
export of his intention to do so.



-32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
(f)      Commercial banks are now allowed to maintain accounts in which
they will retain 80 percent of export earnings or worker remittances made
by their clients (20 percent goes to the Central Bank). Once the importers
get clearance from the technical ministry concerned for the import of com-
modities on the Restricted List, they get foreign exchange from these banks,
out of such accounts, instead of from the Central Bank. This is a major
structural change for liberalizing the export and import licensing regime.
(g)      From the 50 percent legal reserve placed by commercial banks with
the Central Bank, the commercial banks can provide export credits, term
credits and working capital to exporters, as well as finance export invest-
ment proposals, at an interest rate of 11 percent only, with the discount
rate of the Central Bank being 8 percent.
(h)      Investments up to $50 million, in which foreign investors must
have a minimum investment of $2 million and no more than a 49 percent share,
are to be automatically approved by a new department created in the Prime
Minister's office (para. r). Those over $50 million, will be reviewed on
merit by that Office. Investments involving IFC or Islamic Bank have no
limit on size or field of investment and will be automatically approved,
provided the investor holds no more than 49 percent. Even this ceiling
is not applicable .o investments made by Arab OPEC countries, or for hotels
with more than 400 beds, where 100 percent foreign ownership can be allowed.
The repatriation of the sale of an investor's equity is also guaranteed,
as IFC had been insisting.
(i)      To encourage oil exploration/investments by foreign oil companies,
the well-head price of oil is further increased over the sizeable increase
made in April 1979. For oil found or produced by such companies after Jan-
uary 1, 1980, they can export 35 percent of oil produced, as their share of
the profits.
(;)      To resolve the problem of unguaranteed trade credit arrears of about
$1.9 billion, foreign creditors must opt within 90 days between: (i) consoli-
dation in US$, with repayment over 10 years including 4½ years grace, with
7 percent interest at the TL parity on January 25, 1980, or (ii) consolidate
in TL with smaller amounts repaid in 18 months and larger ones with 24 to
30 months. Such TL amounts can be used by them to invest in Turkey, within
the liberalized investment rules mentioned above.
SEE Reforms
(k)      Substantial increases in prices of SEE products such as petroleum,
cement, steel, sugar, coal, lignite and printing paper, as also in tariffs
of service SEEs like railways, Soil Products Office and Maritime Bank (which
collectively accounted for nearly 50 percent of budgetary deficits) have



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
been announced, to add about TL350 billion to 1980 gross revenues. In this
the average tariff for bulk power has been increased from about 120 krs/kwh
to an average of 280 krs/kwh.
(1)      So far, the prices of several SEE products/services were arbitrarily
constrained and could be increased only by Cabinet approval, since they were
placed on "a list of basic items". All goods and services have now been re-
moved from this "basic list", except for fertilizer, coal/lignite, the cargo
tariffs of Railways, Maritime Bank and Turkish Cargo Lines, and electricity
rates only for ferro chrome and aluminium production. In other words, the
Board of Directors of the SEEs concerned will now set their own prices depend-
ing on market forces, so as to generate enough not only to cover their oper-
ating deficits, but cash for their investment programs. Through the price
mechanism and improved management and efficiency in the SEEs themselves,
the SEEs will have to meet all of this. Their operating deficits will no
longer be met from the Budget. While their investment projects would in
future be reviewed by the SPO from the viewpoint of whether they fall within
the Plan objectives and are viable proposals, such projects will no longer
be financed from the Budget. Nor will SEEs have any access to Central Bank
borrowings, except seasonal credits for some of them. This is a major mile-
stone in Turkish economic policy, which has been accomplished by decree under
the existing SEE law, and does not require parliamentary approval.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
(m)      Since continuing increases in SEE prices could price them out of
the international market, revenues are instead to be augmented through a
"significant tax package" being tabled to the Parliament soon. After study,
new simple indirect taxes, like value added taxes, are proposed to be in-
troduced in future, along with others, to raise resources on a continuing
basis. This is another major shift in Turkish economic policy, since pro-
posals for new taxes have rarely been proposed to the Parliament, nor has
the Parliament passed any tax package for the last 8 years.
(n)      All lending rates have been increased by 2 percent over those
prevailing before January 25, 1980. In addition, interest rates for
medium-term credits of beyond 5 years no longer have any ceiling and
can be negotiated between the borrower and the banks concerned. This
freeing of interest rates on loans beyond 5 years, is a major step to-
wards gradually reducing the negativeness of the interest rate structure
in Turkey.
(o)      As part of the Government's objective to bring down inflation
in 1980 to about 50 percent, and then continue to exercise a downward
pressure on inflationary growth, legislation is being introduced in
Parliament to contain wage increases in public and private sectors by
allowing automatic rate adjustments of only half the rate of inflation
in a given year, if the overall rate exceeds 40 percent.



34 -                 ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Administrative Arrangements
(p)      A small Coordination Committee under the Undersecretary in
the Prime Ministry and having the Undersecretaries of SPO, Industry,
Energy and Treasury, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Head of
the Economic Department of SPO, will expedite formulation and implementation
of economic policies, trade regimes and the coordination of external aid.
(q)      A new Money and Credit Committee, again under the Undersecretary
in the Prime Ministry, with the Undersecretaries of SPO, Treasury and Com-
merce as well as the Governor of the Central Bank, the Head of the Economic
Department of SPO and the Head of Internal Revenue's Economic Department,
are to coordinate monetary and credit developments, solve financial bottle-
necks, decide on pricing policies and quickly approve adjustments in cross
rates and exchange rates.
'r)      A new private Foreign Investment Department has been created under
the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It alone will review
and approve applications of foreign investors for investments in Turkey.
(s)      An Incentives/Implementation Department has also been established
under the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It will not
only develop and deal with all export promotion incentives, measures and
institutions in order to promote export and export oriented investments,
but will also continuously review the ongoing investments in the country
from the point of view of establishing which of them should be stopped,
deferred or processed quickly, besides reviewing and proposing general
investment incentives for investments considered desirable in the Turkish
context.



-35-                                                                                         ANEX II
Page 5 of 5
TUkKEY: Key Elements of lckev                and Medium-Term Recovery Efforto
Poicesun  trasocen
Mtiln Ises                         1978f79 Icends                                    Measrse-   p to J=nuary 1980                                          fccthe     t - loe                                           E npetced Impact
Jn  Palaces mf Paymntsn        Carreot a/c deficit an $3.6 b. in '77,                 Adninistestive measures to prevent increase in
51.6 b. in '78 end '79.                               deficit i eyod '78 lovel.
A.  gxehaige R-te Policy        -verveluenlon and iadequate adjuet-ents               Adoptice in June '79 of o  -ealistic exrhaoge rate         Freqoeot and u1oaet auto- atic adjosne-ot by the            stnytben balan  of poymeete; encourage exporto
seceuraged imp-rte end capital intensive              to help aileviete situation, use followod up in            Central Baok, in coonultation with a non Money              And wobkers Xeisittnces.  stimulate Iess cepita1
i-vet .. ts; dio...raged snyorts.                     jon. 'if by   further drasil         , deooto  f,Inig      aod Basbiog Coordination Coeittee, of the                   isteo...  iemscst-s,
rate of TO70 -  1, e.c.p  f f t orcie  a n              ohb nsge rats to  over the diffrentil infnlatin
insecticide imyort.                                       toin Turkey sod of her vain trading parnnrs.
b.  Exports-                   ASgicolt-tl experts still dominaet;  -eport            Meos-rne tlkon  in '78/79 boosted -eports by 152 pa        Steps to f-rthee ninii-e v-p-r t pre d-                     Contined export g-owth by at I eat 107 is ra  te
orententies is grgd-elly iner-asiog in tie            in tool ctrns in '78 aod '79.  Renlistic  -chenge          revise by Oct. 'ff, o   he eficyofth  m'-i                  intense '8$  nd '83.  Actions  hesld con reibute t
iedustriol seoter.  Howevar, cumbersome export         re should help peiotain groeth trnd.  Permission                                         inarrengeect for oxpori rob insurance  and priority  ionreaae ef son-traditional seports, improve eapacity
restrictios and lii-esieg peo-ed-ree  end mere        to neyprtner  to rectin 50f  of expo-t -ortiogo for        access to credits to vxpor-ers, -s -el es of                otilis-tin, end increase employnent.
lcentive domnentic m-ket disc.oraged exports         impart  en.ds helped stimclatetexortt.     D-oe-rs in      institutiocel arron. emnots to further dnvelop
Moy '79 -nd Jen. '8  here reduced prcedurol delyn    traditional and non-traditiecal e- orct.  In.entive-
droetic-lly; interim arrangements established           ' and priority for -expot oriented investments in
to provide exporc rink insurence nove                     private sector   Study of protection to he initiated
an nell on term end working capital creffin to d          in April '80.
n,  esternal Snbt               Substantial ancoulation of sheet-tern indebt-         Curunteed bilatnral debts re-hbeduled up to Jane   lx rthe -resbvdoling en netdnded terms of guarante-d    fraduel restoration of  -rsdit-orthieess, te maintain
edne-s inpo.es .nd iordinately heavy bhrden,          '79:  IMF Stendby  A-rrngevent in July '79; con-           bileterel debt, contoin-ent f short-teem debts none    virble grewth end economic stebility.
in the medisn-tem. on balenen of payments;            -ercial bhnk debts of $429 m. ranhedolod and              -ediun-ter-  to no mere than current level of about
short-term  debt went op in '78 by another  2 b.    further eacheduling of $2b46 b  negotiated.                  $2. 8b., s       .curin  of oe. oredits no  as co.s.os i.en
because Turkey borro-ed set short-term, and           Jon. '80 economic p-ckage included reas.oble             i terms as poDsibh., and completion by Oct. '80 of en
vaiueti-n adjasmnent of eid debt, due tot             alternative pro-osala to settle about Sl.9 b. oE          eogoing stody to further improve sod refine this
slippiog against E.rrecurnrlene.                       negoarantied exyort credits.                              eternal dobt poliny.
B.  Llesstin Poliniss
a.  Inflation                   ies. en--uraged e.ss..ptinn, diecouraged sacing=    iffort to controt phblic oenoc defifits and                 With the obje-tivo ef reducing the rate of groeth            G-fdool -eductien in inflatien in
end eroded potetntll benefits fron o- ernseot's    Centrel Buok borenwings in '78/79.  Upord                     of inflstion in '80:  limit net one Cent-rl Bnk             '8.  Slight deline in priv-et  n-nn-mpti-n nd some
stabilizatinn  policies.  gdget deficit of            adjustreet of interest rates in Mcy '79, followed    I credits to public setor to TL94 b. in FY79t80.                  deline in priv-te fined investmnts.
TL61 b. (4.7/. GDP) ond _eerall poblic sentor         op in Jon. '80 with ftether S per2 entage poin           i Continue poliy of limiting wage increaen.  R_viewof
dnficit of TL15 b. (8.8% GDP) in '78.  Net            incunea      in nil r-eis, end liberalization of the       Turkey's ncopleted Financial Seitor Study by Bgok;
poblir sentor bhectoing from Central Sork             interest -t  regine through allowing borrowees           I by vid '80, review oesures to encourage
TL63 b. in '778.                                      ad b_nks to agree on eaten for deposits beyono           jincreasos t  khusehold savings and deposits as part
4 years and lending beyond 5 years.                       of measeren to  improve -eesucce mobiliz-tion/allr-
,stion   Restruotarieg of tan system  to eugment tee
.        to be dIne -      limin-tion of deficit
finoncitn  of poblic sector, to be en important
festore of 1980 end future budgets.
b.  Price Pelinies of SlEs    Donestic resouree mohiliei-tue end totnl                Systematic increases in J. en dluring '78/79,             Continue policy of enouging SiEE  to imropve                 Stesngthbn public sector finanes.  Improve resource
deficitn hbee increased.  Dficit of SEEi 4b11         followed up in Jan. '80 by increan.- of betorso          ' productivity and  -enagneent, end generete their            allcution.
GDP is '78. .Uoderpriin  of industrial gedr           50 no t300  in preducts and services of SEEs, t          ! resources to ecovr theIr  onument program_.
produned or distributed by SElO, hbo  -esolted        net TL350 b. in '80; this should belp alleviet,-
is substantiel losses, int through Ihe budget         situation   Importaotly. -exrpt foe coal/lignite,
and Central bPok bor-owings.  Esr  ggra-oted          rail- ay end *hipping freights and power toriff6
inflation and thl  economic crisi.                    for eluoinun and fneorbenne production, fgs aEeE
rom allowed to fir their -n prices depending en
racket prices.  Through prioas and improved
efficleney, ihey are to eover 011 cents and
generate cash  for in-estnents, since their
ltaoc-  on tlhe hudget and Ce-trel dank bhorowings
for both puryonp o, hbe  been otopped.
n,  Publin SIctis  Invest-     Ae in en-ment protean, excessive in the light          Topmost priority ec-onded to copletion of ongoing   |eatraint on see inveutmonts in light of evailoble                 Sie-ble redurti-n in  public fined investment.
meet Program             of  -viilable resources, and empiasis or large         pr-j-cts ohich 000 Rime go_d omcron with -ud-at            ..resources; all in-estm-nts to he mode according to        Stimulate fastee dinb-rsemennt on priocity projoct
projectn with leg testotion p-`iod rnd merginal   i.n.etments, and those thet can use  existtng                  sItne   critcria mntioneed under "Mrssums up to             looe.  Positime eff-et on onteiinig inElation.
returns, has inrcrared country's  debt b-rde-         productive canaSty folly.  New minestents,                 January 1980" column.  fleold cesources fell eho-t  "  Prootion of public -ectoreports.
and fuelled inflation                                 tailored no  -ailehbrl ources  te be node maenly    in tny  year to those estimatod in tlb  rele-..t Annual
on priority projects for removieg iefrastructural         Progoam, tylep would be nhan.e iled to projectn hboing
bottlenecik, or pro- eting enforce end employmcnt.    lhihest priority according to that -rit-ria, thl  list
of which ts to be prnvided shortly tn SEok.






-36-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                    (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                 Purpose                        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Nineteen loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                        533.0   160.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Education                       13.5               3.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Water Supply           37.0               9.5
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Urban Development                2.3      0.7
330-TU   197.2  Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                             16.0      0.1
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas                 44.0              20.0
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                0.2
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                   46.7               2.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry                40.0               0.9
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power                 148.0              59.0
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      Industry                        40.0               1.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                     Industry                        65.0               0.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development               75.0              46.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit              54.3              33.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                       70.0              13.8
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey      Livestock III                    21.5              16.2
1194-TU   1976   TEK                     Power Transmission II            56.0              21.4
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                         26.0              23.3
1379-TU   1977   DYB          .           Industry                        70.0              47.5
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                        74.0              22.5
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey      Northern Forestry                86.0              73.5
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey      Livestock IV                     24.0              23.9
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey      Erdemir Steel Stage II           95.0              94.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Oil Recovery                      2.5              1.0
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Ports Rehabilitation            75.0              75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey      Grain Storage                    85.0              85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                     Industry                        60.0              60.0
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                    Private Sector Textiles          65.0              65.0
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                    Private Sector Textiles          15.0              15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                6.0
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey       Structural Adjustment          200.0             200.0
Total                                                 2141.5   178.5   1021.8
of which has been repaid                             185.5      6.1
Total now outstanding                                 1956.0   172.4
Amount sold                      3.6
of which has been repaid       3.6                   - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                     1956.0   172.4
Total undibbursedjb      X                             815.0      0.8    815.8
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Excluding loans not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                   -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90   0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                   -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                   -    0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50   0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50   0.62      3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00   1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75     -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -    0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                            -    0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                   -    0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                               -10.00     -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33   0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60   0.44      4.04
1974     AK3A          Textiles                           10.00     -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30     -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00     -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60     -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50   1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58     -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00     -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                           -    0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                 -    0.10      0.10
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15     -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.00   1.40      9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -    1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               31.15   4.00    35.15
1980     TSKB          DFC                                   -    1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories          -    0.56      0.56
Total Gross Commitments                        186.86  21.65   207.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    109.48   2.43   111.91
Total Commitments now held by IFC               77.38  18.22    95.60
Total Undisbursed                               10.84   6.12    16.96



ANNEX III
-38-                            Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. Tariff increases have been implemented
recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-39-                            ANNEX III
Page 4 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The fattening subproject has been completed. All unspent funds
have been reallocated to the village livestock development subproject, which
is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project:  US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progressing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants; the Government
is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Both local and
foreign costs have increased substantially over appraisal estimates. Consul-
tant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed reorganization
of the company's electricity, transport and gas services have been completed.
IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially in the recent past, and addi-
tional increases as a result of the Government's January 1980 economic package
should help cover the increased project costs and revitalize the company's
finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been dis-
bursed and procurement action has been or is in the process of being completed
for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since



ANNEX III
-40-                             Page 5 of 9
the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial
targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975.
However, it is hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight
tariffs averaging 70 to 170 percent, which became effective in January 1980,
will improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization
program is making satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational
efficiency, such as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given suffi-
cient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is well
advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in January 1980 should enable
the company to meet part of the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have recently resulted in significant improvement of project execution. The
Government's expected continued provision of adequate local funds for this
high priority project, and early arrangements to finalize plans to meet the
substantial foreign exchange gap, are likely to maintain project momentum in
future. The Government is reviewing possible action to overcome remaining
implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



ANNEX III
-41-                             Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey):  US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1975. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and tendering is
beginning in April 1980. The project extension service and credit components
are operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of
the three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further
construction of village centers is being delayed until a satisfactory plan for
using and maintaining existing centers is drawn up and plans for additional
centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily.
After considerable delay, consultants will shortly begin to carry out the
study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's request, a
,cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of the original
Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May
5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for
training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds
for this purpose.



-42-                             ANNEX III
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding slowly due to delays in civil works and
procurement caused by insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of
130-345 percent are likely to correct this situation and the project is
expected to start production in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal
schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment began in early 1979 and trial
runs are expected to begin in 1980.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are fully
staffed. Preparation of farm development plans has been slower than expected
but is now satisfactory. A higher than expected proportion of subloans has
been made to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are
being taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major
delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 83 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale



-43-                           ANNEX III
Page 8 of 9
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Foreign procurement for 1979 was effectively up to
date but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the
locally produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Most technical problems have been resolved.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey. The final draft of
the milk industry study is expected shortly. International recruitment of
technical specialists is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are underway. Following technical review
by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down coiler
have been deferred until a later date. Prices have been substantially
increased in January 1980. Production from existing facilities however, have
been restricted because of the lack of raw materials due to the limited
availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April 1979 and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30.
The loan is almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The engineering study has been completed and detailed design of a
pilot project to test the chosen technology has begun.



- 44 -                            ANNEX III
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committees are in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications and tender documents
is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to implement
the project related training programs. The port sector planning studies have
been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Tender documents to be sent to an
approved short list of consultants are under review.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
TSKB and ITC finalized in November the technical assistance program
for training and export development. Project screening is now underway.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB ($65 million) and 1755 SYKB ($15 million) Private Sector
Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29, 1980.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local training.
The additional consultants for technical services and for the extension ser-
vices are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan: US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980. Effective Date: April 1, 1980. Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Procurement is underway.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
TURKEY
FIFTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:            Eleven months (September
1978 to August 1979).
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                       General Directorate of
Livestock Projects (LDP)
of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock,
with assistance from two
Bank and one FAO/CP
missions.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                     October 1979.
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:                October 1979.
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                      October 18, 1979.
(f)  Completion of negctiations:                          April 22, 1980.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       October 10, 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to onlend portions of the loan to TCZB, EBK and TYT under
subsidiary loan agreements (Conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursement,
para. 60).
(b) LDP to recruit additional professional staff (Condition of Disbursement,
para. 54).
(c) LDP and TCZB to sign protocol on credit aspects (Condition of Disburse-
ment, para. 64).
(d) Theileriosis vaccine production to reach critical level (Condition of
Disbursement, para. 67).
(e) Review of TCZB's interest rates and other terms and conditions of lending
at least every 2 years from effectiveness, and subsequent adjustments
(para. 49).
(f) Government to formulate and implement a national livestock improve-
ment plan (para. 70).



IBRD  1484]R
25'                     .       1                       300                                                   3y,                                                                                                               M {:  h   \ ;<T4br X  \, : 0,  f   dAY 19180
|B U L G A 1R I A, \-             * *  .  5,R |
0KIRKLARELO?                                                                                                                                                                    SS
f ~~~~~~EZ ~~~~ZONGULCAKZ  
LU  )  t 5K  -O0        TArTULD                                                 RKAST~AMONU                                                0~t: 0 't   f  ; \ ::::2 2 ':  2     ;:0000   .  :KASTAMONU
L L        E    ri .RDAG6                                  i(>                                                                                                                                  to*)\t  00  0    0 ;  ;     ) ARTV r     t ; 
0   0ADA\AZARI        J                                                                                                 RZE
CANA~EAE  *                                               0        g         NJTTSLi                                                     L N I ,RN IM
@) ° °;a X X-A                                                                             A t4                                                                       <                                 <         F  <oMARDIt  ot} <-A C>/
SAL    TUSKES R~'                                                                               TO AS                    ERZINCAN,      NE                                                          40
/A SH    =                ?ANKARA RTA'TUE 
- ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~                           *T~~~~~~~~~6OZGAT          SVA0
EI~~~1                                  OTS0TH!P                                                 1  TUNCEL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                      K   ~~IRAN
.O,- MAN SA     -                      A                                          A                                                                  ; -0 Ž,  ThIGOL
ZIAAR                L§AK                                                                       0                                            L LEEALT
47                                                          ~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~MALATYA  (  >N   1T
4PAYDIN      DEN ZLI                   +          A¶ A                   NO
x~~~j                            AOCTA~~~MAN            OA(
;   .   r,e,,,l   FFtORITY  RE @ O NS    FOR~ 6     BURiL D U  R O E T  5    J.                                             A R I     : :                                          4q 0   -Kli5R .    R 
0 ~~. (    ~ MU6LAN             )                                                                                                          v9)    MP~                                                   0OA
i/AE~~ ;                                               Q>ANTFCAL NENTATNCMOEt   e ;rcrVD7 SS                                                            0LF                   0 a;Ei(  iiiE;Ap -'13
- 0A NAL                                                ADANA                 0 :T
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f   ME&0   0 A                                                                                 0AZAN3p                         / .3vi R;::l  j    A: Q  J 
ATARg
APPRA~iSAL OF ~FIFTH'
PROJECT AREA OP LOVESTCI R   ICr 230 ~L
PROJECT AREA OP LIVEETOC  nI1L 265 1
PRO~T R~A ~VE5OC  lEo -Ell      CR'RIJ                  ~                YRA                   LIVESTOCK,  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCO: ZC8EDIT AREAS 
AEXISTING E SLAUOGHTTRHfOUS S
A  ERR SLAUGHTIERHOQCOES TO BE OPERATiONAI DURING i980                                                                                POL ANDI
RRUPT RITY REGIONS fOR POUiLTRY PROJECT M'-~                                                                                                              U.                     
ARTtFIC AL NISEMINATtON COMPONENT                                                                   7 eraa a
AN~MA AHEALTH COMPONENT
MOTIAIR PTOCRSS.P10 COMPONENT                                                                                                             RQMANIA 
TMEAT CUTTING COMPONENT                                 Sea                                            41
INTESTINE PROCESSING UN TES5                                                                                    0         ICo                        
LRAI oRE ANO CATTIEI BREEDING
METINO                                                                                         MmpE   opmabR
TmnoororrR~roo pf ET U R K E Y
- - EORTGNCIAL BOVNDATRES                                                                          nnnSROT  pOT TM
-   NTERPIAT 0NAC BOUNDARIES                                                                      :nn0nE T                                                                                               ImTTOTnRAN
30-                                                          s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,o morE' ray nonn



